ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u1	I'd like to ask the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Cards please be placed. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:29]] Cards were registered in the 412 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Wednesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, and reports. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Tuesday, I'm sorry. I'm in a hurry to live. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction. Prepare from the faction of the Party of Regions, Kovalova is recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Tomorrow Ukraine celebrates Jurist’s Day, but today lawyers have made claims to legislators. Parliament has not passed laws in a long time. In the session room, politics and populism Unfortunately, there are many highly professional lawyers among the blockers of the Supreme Council's work, and they understand perfectly what this sad failure of the legislative body leads to -- the legal nihilism of citizens, the willfulness of officials, the crookedness of the judge of judges. I hope that the work of the Supreme Council will really be unlocked and not for an hour for the representations from the rostrum, and the opposition will not be looking for any more reasons to block. If you calculated the damage to the state from a non-working parliament, from unadopted anti-crisis laws, the bill would probably go back to billions. But the Party of Regions doesn't care. The Supreme Council is stubbornly being held hostage by one political force, and the purpose of Parliament’s activities is to adopt pre-election decisions to raise wages. The number of similar projects promised to make the electorate happy will soon be tens. If the Party of Regions were now in power, today’s social initiatives would criticise first as populism. I'll give you expert evaluations. The proposed increase in minimum wages means increasing the cost of production and reducing the competitiveness of Ukrainian businesses. In the first half of 2009, their total losses amounted to more than 6 billion dollars, i.e. in enterprises there is simply no cost for any additional payments. And in those businesses that still keep their profits, they're going to have to cut off the cost of regenerating. And there's no development, and there's no production, there's no resources to raise wages. When debt increases closes, bankruptcy is threatened. The companies that survive will be forced to release people in a massive way, unemployment will increase, and so on in times of crisis. The electorate needs to know that this is the price of pre-election politics. We understand our coalition colleagues who seek compromise with opposition. As one philosopher put it, real life is an eternal compromise between ideal and possible. There is no ideal, but does it fit what is offered within the scope of what is possible? Maybe experience is traditionally looking for less evil, and still doing good for Ukraine and giving up beautiful but not financially strengthened promises, especially since the president in a tight circle has expressed his willingness to sign any law on raising social standards. And the more populist and unrealistic, the better it is for him to just salt up the government. In general, wage increases should not be considered separately from the State Budget project for the following year. In particular, the faction “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” made its proposals and observations in due time to the draft document for the following year. We're proposing that this project be submitted to the Budget Committee for consideration by the current week. Specially for the venerable opposition, I repeat the obvious things. First. A real increase in social benefits is possible only when it is recorded in the budget. So let's talk about this in the process of looking at the State Budget, 2010. The other one. In civilized countries, sources of funding must be indicated in case of an increase in any expenditure. And it's not supposed to be a loan to the IMF that's designed to maintain the exchange rate, it's real and non-issued costs. Manna will not fall from above, and no billionaires will give us the money. And if the budget process is broken now, the minimum wage situation depends on the presidential election. So when our opposition colleagues are really worried about raising minimum wages and pensions, they should be the first to vote in favour of adopting the 2010 budget project before it is considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u3	Mikola Janović Azarov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u4	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! We are all witnesses to a performance in all areas of Ukraine called “It Works” where, in the main role of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko. The spectacle becomes bright as promises come out of the horns of abundance. But the impression is like the unforgettable Stanislavsky: I don't believe it. We have proposed a concrete way out of the country's crisis through the implementation of an anti-crisis programme, through an increase in the minimum pension, wages. We are told, "There is no money." Indeed, the budgetary situation is catastrophic. Although it is said on the same scene that the budget is 100 per cent or more, in 9 months, the total budget fund is 107 billion and should be raised 185 by the end of the year. It is not difficult to see that December and January will come when it is absolutely obvious that this year's budget has failed. Failed only because it was unrealistic from the outset and because it was unrealistic, unfulfilled and did not meet social standards. However, the money for various programmes, such as the split of the bar, various seminars, the country's wars, numerous meetings, and electoral increases in wages, are surprising. For some reason, they suddenly took care of the level of wages of certain categories of our citizens, which are particularly relevant to the electoral process. And that's what the money's for, and there's no way to raise minimum pensions. I draw your attention to the fact that in September, a government that doesn't have money, it suddenly found a huge sum of 7.1 billion bracelets. Stay away from the newspapers, respected members of the government coalition, and ask your Prime Minister and your faction leaders where, suddenly, in September, more than 7 billion bracelets were found on the so-called VAT refund? Ask yourself, ‘ Would it not be enough to raise minimum pensions and wages? ’ Ask yourself how much was planned for VAT this year, and you will learn that you have already paid more than 30 billion for the 29 billion. Just in case, why do we have twice as much VAT refund as we did last year when exports in the country dropped twice? We have a unique economy where VAT reimbursement is growing directly in proportion to the rate of decline in exports. Therefore, respectable colleagues, I could cite dozens more similar egregious examples, such as the example of a purchase by a buyer by a single decision of the members of the Government, including the Prime Minister in the amount of what do you think? Not much, not much, not more than 50 billion bracelets. There is therefore a unique situation: on the one hand, the economy is falling, and the budget, according to the Government, is being replaced by the fact that, on the other hand, there is money for the Prime Minister's pre-election populist projects and, on the other hand, there is no money for the minimum level of pensions and salaries. Don't you think it's time?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u5	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u6	Call for an answer? Another interesting example is that the Prime Minister is missing the Attorney-General. Which Attorney General is needed to reduce the cost of maintaining an explosive government in many ministries by 10 or more deputies to address, for example, the cost savings of more than 12 billion government? Therefore, honourable colleagues, let us now support the Act on the Increase of Pensions and Minimum Wages. Let us consider and return to the Government a completely unrealistic draft budget for the tenth year and together we will remove the country from the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u7	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania” faction. Prepare Ally Alexander, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u8	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, representatives of the media! The well - known Russian philosopher Nikolay Bjerdeev has wise words that are very relevant today. He said, “Abstracts produce abstractions.” Thinking about space happiness, big space projects, projects, high-level burnout -- all of this, on the one hand, on the other hand, is people's problems. And when the mess on the cave hills reaches its climax, it spreads, and it produces disorder in places: in specific communities, in specific towns, in specific district centers, and so on. I want to give you an example, not of the cosmic, not of the projective, but of the very specific people of the city of Dunaevci in the Hmelni district. People who are sick, children who are sick, people who live in an area where there is no bird are no longer alive, because one enterprise is working without the approval of any ecological expertise, working without permission to throw dirt into the air. And it's working. And the community goes here, to the President, to the Cabinet of Ministers. It's everywhere because they can't live there, but they don't care. All of this is for light bulbs because they are here, including here, in this room, in the field of communication. It's about the so-called Center of Innovation Technology, a hop industry that's illegally located in a gymnastics facility, and they're producing pinopolistrol. Again, absolutely without permission. And the products of secondary processing get into the air, they get into the water that these people drink, and they can't get out of there because they don't have the problems of disorder and strife that are on cave hills. Once again, I want to say that the disorder, the unemployment, the laziness that exists here in Kiev, it strikes directly at specific people, it affects their lives, their health in a negative way. And one more moment. You know, we have big people doing greetings for every holiday, greetings for doctors, librarians, educators, that's very good. Even better, when they promise the day before these festivals. Our colleagues, the National MPs, recently promised that on Teacher's Day, an idea would be put forward to assign the rank of public officials to teachers. That's a good idea, but I'd like to encourage everyone who puts out these ideas to see what's going on in the Supreme Council. In September 2008, a bill was filed by the People's Deputies from the Lithuanian Block, and it's included in the agenda, by the way, of this session under 3155, it's already, it doesn't need new ideas before the elections, it needs to be implemented. Which is about giving the status of a civil servant or comparing it to government officials in the pedagogical, scientific, pedagogical and medical spheres. In this regard, my honourable colleagues, I would like to invite you, if such ideas arise, if, at the election meetings, you are promised to do a good job today, tomorrow, at this plenary week, to convert these promises today without waiting for the results of the elections, and to vote in favour of Bill 3155 of the Lithuanian Block. But it's not about who submitted, it's about justice, because teachers do much more for the state than many officials do, and they deserve this status far more than other officials. In short, back to the great philosopher: “Abstracts produce abstractions. Real things lead to real results.” That's what we call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u9	Alla Alexandrovska, a faction of Communists, is invited to the presentation. The next one will be Andrew Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to one very tragic story that unfolds with us in Ukraine and is generally characteristic of today. These are the systematic actions of the Government, which have led to the destruction of the largest plant in agriculture, the Kharkiv Tractor Plant. This enterprise has existed for more than 70 years. During its work, more than 2.5 million tractors were released, 35,000 and today, agricultural technicians were produced at the Harkov Tractor Factory, working in Ukraine, and more than 100,000 of them work in the Russian Federation. The plant is actually being destroyed today, more than four times the number of employees has been reduced during this year alone. This year, the company was only working for two months and today it is worth it. Although the Ukrainian budget provides for a state programme, more than 3 million bracelets are provided for the acquisition of agricultural equipment, including 135 million to be obtained by the Kharkiv plant. I was approached by trade union workers, representatives of trade union organizations, including Harkovsky, and the Prime Minister of Ukraine and received two interesting receipts. One letter from the Ministry of Industrial Policy of Ukraine and the other from the Ministry of Agrarian Policy. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy claims that tractors were purchased at the Harikov Tractor Factory. However, factory managers are surprised and say that virtually no agricultural engineering has been purchased by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy in our factory this year through the Ukrainian-linging mechanism. The question is: where do the millions of bracelets in the Ukrainian budget go for the acquisition of equipment to be released and purchased at the Harikov Tractor Factory? I received a response from the Ministry of Industrial Policy, which also said that there was a government decision that money should be allocated. We will consider the issue in October-November. It appears that high-ranking officials in the Ministry of Agrarian Policy in the Ministry of Industrial Policy do not realize that it is the end of the financial year. That if issues were not resolved by October of the month, they would of course not be resolved both in October and November, and more in December. There is a strong belief that the Government of Timoshenko is doing everything possible to ensure that the money that is to be allocated, including the purchase of equipment for HTRs, the budget money is willing not to release from its own hands. [[And I know it's true.]] Whether this money is not available, whether this money will be directed to other purposes, or whether the money will be used by intermediaries who will receive a real order from the Government. But this money is obviously not going to get the Harkov Tractor Factory today. I would like to ask the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to investigate the situation, to monitor where the money in the budget for the purchase of agricultural equipment has gone. And why is the Government of Timoshenko working to make it impossible to raise the agri-industrial complex of Ukraine? Because without technical weapons, without technical equipment, an agro-industrial complex can't work, it can't live. And the last. The Government is very much concerned about the need to support its producer. I say again, 35,000 techniques in Ukraine today issued by HTZ, 100,000 units of technology working in the Russian Federation. The Harkov tractor factory can not only produce new equipment, it can produce. To repair the current equipment, it can provide repairs to the equipment. However, non-funding from the State budget of the enterprise actually leads to its destruction. I am outraged by the action of the Government. I am outraged by the resignation of the Ministry of Industrial Agrarian Policy, which in my view is doing everything I can to stop the Harkov Tractor Factory and eventually destroy it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u11	Andrew Kožemjakin, faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block. ” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u12	Dear Head, colleagues, distinguished voters! With the opening of today's session, we want to express the expectations not only of our faction but also of the vast majority of Ukrainians that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will finally start working to carry out its constitutional mandates. Without a doubt, the standard of living of our citizens is number one priority. For us, both the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian Government. However, we hope that our colleagues in the Party of Regions understand that the adoption of the law on raising social standards will not begin to fall upon our pensioners the manna of the heavens. You're saying there's money to raise pensions and wages. But in fact, what you're proposing will undeniably destabilize the economy, the rapid rise in unemployment. And this is a straight path to a social explosion. Is that what you want, dear colleagues? And this will be the responsibility of the government, not the government, but, above all, we, the parliamentarians. Because it can't be about a successful fight when one branch of power is working and the other one is doing open sabotage. After all, you and I have an excellent understanding and knowledge of the plight of Ukraine. This situation requires more than just a government to work as hard as possible. The situation requires quick and effective decisions. Because only Parliament can provide the government with the necessary, and most important, tools to combat the crisis. However, the faction of the Party of the Regions has for a month stubbornly blocked the rostrum and rejected any compromises proposed by the Conciliation Councils and the Chief of the Supreme Council. As soon as a solution is proposed, the opposition speakers immediately find new artificial reasons for blocking the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With such success, we can block the rostrum and ask no one to join the European Union tomorrow. Dear colleagues from the Party of Regions, we need to be honest, if not before ourselves, at least in front of the voters, and looking them in the eye, not from the TV screens, we just don't want to take responsibility for what's going on in Ukraine. Or what's most likely is that we don't have to offer any real steps and measures to get out of the crisis. I wanted to know why. Do our colleagues understand that it is now absolutely necessary to adopt laws that would allow the state budget to be filled with real costs. These are pensions paid on time to public sector employees. Nor do we openly accept a populist law that will not only help underprotected citizens but will cause inflationary processes and artificial price rises. In this case, who will win? And they're going to win, first of all, the people's deputies themselves. Because according to the tariff network, the national deputies are standing on top of its charts, and the wages will also be raised 2.5 times for them. And if you, your esteemed colleagues in the Party of the Regions, want to raise only pensions, why isn't the law called "The Retirement of Pensions"? We are well aware that the call to be honest on the threshold of the start-up election campaign sounds idealistic. However, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that the start of the electoral campaign will not stop the crisis. Call from the rostrum to look after the citizens, to care for the citizens, and this will not make it easier for them. So on behalf of our faction, I would like to go to our colleagues in the faction of the Regions, despite the enormous temptation to use the Supreme Council rostrum as a free advertising platform, we need to work. If you do not want to do something on your own, let the coalition, the government, and at least do not interfere. In the last issue of the important weekly “Derial of the Week”, the leader of your faction commented that after the presidential election was announced, we need to agree on any confrontations and start getting the country out of the corner. Dear colleagues, what prevents us from agreeing now and not waiting almost six months? What now stands in the way of halting confrontation and foolish political opposition? It is vital that Parliament work and adopt the necessary laws. This week is extremely busy with questions of extreme importance that we cannot delay. We need to consider and adopt the bills proposed by the government that will ensure that this year's budget is actually filled. We are looking forward to a brief and difficult work on the 2010 budget. But we cannot afford the luxury of leaving the country without a major financial document. In addition, the government is asked to bring together local self - government authorities with an immediate request for a legislative solution to budgetary issues. Government initiatives to support the agricultural sector also require legislative support. The main sectors of the real economy are waiting for us to work. So, dear colleagues, there's only a few days left before the election campaign starts, so let's at least get off on the official start.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u13	Yes, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u14	We will reject the opposition and confrontation in Parliament and, indeed, work for the people not in words, but in adopting specific bills that will help the real sectors of the economy to cope with the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Factions finished speaking. With regard to proposals that have been made and require consideration by institutions and authorities, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate assignments. Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you on the Conciliation Council schedule for our work on October 6. Now we need to consider getting into the agenda. And then if the Supreme Council makes a positive decision on the inclusion in the agenda, then make a decision on the draft Decision on certain legal arrangements for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the inclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine draft regulation in the agenda of the day session. [[Registration number 5190]] Please vote. [[10:29:33]] For 350. Dear colleagues! The factions, please. Region Party – 169, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 147, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 13, Communist faction – 0, “Litvina Block” – 20, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, you've been given a draft decision. Is there a need to report it, and we have repeatedly discussed it? If not, I do not see any objection, so I will put to the vote on the adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain legal arrangements for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 5190]] Please vote. [[10:30:31]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 172, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 11, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 9, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 20, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, I ask you again. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again, let's calm down. We are all aware that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should start working. Dear colleagues, we are aware that it should work. It was as if we had compromised. Let's think about how we'll continue to consider other issues. Or we're going to have a process of mutual blocking. So I would ask you right now that we don't go through the voting in an article again, I would like to ask you to consider the proposal for a return to the ruling and to accept it. Well, we're back in the corner. I'm asking you to support me. We all want the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work and demand. I'm voting for a return to the project. Change the vote. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u16	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, let's do as agreed on the Conciliation Council yesterday: if the ruling does not go as a whole and it has not gone as a whole, you have proposed, and I support this idea, and please put each paragraph to the vote separately. [[By the way, that was your offer.]] Who will receive support, he will be accepted. Let's go back to this idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we'll go back to this idea, it's a very good offer. At the same time, I want to remind you that I consulted with faction leaders yesterday and today, and I realized that if we went to the polls on an anomalous basis, we would not accept the document and get back to the blocked Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the problem. So I'm going to read you this decree, and you understand that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to work. I am reading a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on some legal measures to ensure the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. It is also considered unacceptable and contrary to the oath and the status of the Ukrainian People's Deputies to any action taken by the Ukrainian National Deputies or by the MPs, including the blocking of parliamentary plenary meetings, aimed at impeding the exercise by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of its constitutional powers. The other one. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the issue of the Rules, the parliamentary ethics and security of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the immediate development and submission of draft regulations for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as other legislative proposals for the harmonization of the organization and order of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. Admitting that the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 22 September 2009 No1623-6 "On the Change of Voting Method" (as far as the bill relates to the increase in the size of State social standards is concerned. And the fourth. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Dear colleagues, please! I'll put the vote back on the draft ruling. Please, stand by. Well, we're in the corner again. [[10:34:35]] For 209 Dear colleagues. The factions. It's clear now, dear fellows. Let's do it this way. The second proposal we spoke about yesterday was confirmed by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. I'm voting on acceptance as a basis, and then we're going to go over the paragraphs, and we're going to take the basis of the draft regulation, registration number 5190. Please vote. [[10:35:21]] For 367 We accepted it as a foundation. I'll put it to the vote first. Is there no need to read it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Read it? First point. “To consider unacceptable and in a manner contrary to the oath and status of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies, any action taken by the Ukrainian National Deputies or by the deputy factions, including the blocking of parliamentary plenary meetings, aimed at impeding the exercise by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of its constitutional powers.” Please vote. Please vote. Dear colleagues, there is now a vote. [[10:36:09]] For 377 Decision taken. Second item. “To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the questions of the Rules, the parliamentary ethics and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council with the immediate development and submission of draft regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as other legislative proposals for the organization and order of business of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” Well, that's the point. I'll bet you a second vote. Please, Your Honor, vote. [[10:36:51]] For 375 Decision taken. Paragraph three. Admitting that the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 22 September 2009 No. 1623-6 has been invalidated on the amendment of voting methods for bills relating to the increase in the size of State social standards. I'll put to the vote, please vote, please vote. [[10:37:30.]] For 240 Decision taken. Well, it's number four. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Should I vote? Should we vote then? Well, we're not putting it to a vote, that's obvious. Now I'm voting for a draft ruling as a ruling. Please vote. Registration number 5190. Please vote. [[10:38:08]] For 208 Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u18	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, it is clear what point will be passed. Let's do it then. If we put this whole decision out of those three points, you see that it has no right to life. I emphasize, once again, the Communist faction gave the necessary number of votes to make it a key point, which is why meetings are being held today, and why long-term monthly debates have been held. This is about a change in voting. I propose to put to the vote a separate motion to change voting methods by social standards. And this point has the right to life and it will pass. The point that we have to go to work and not go to the rostrum is not going to pass today, that's understandable. And no one needs him. So if we're going to do a stupid thing, let's vote on the third paragraph. We'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, all of this is wisely said. That's very wise. But what I'm saying is that we need to unlock the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of these paragraphs, first and second, what should I do with them, Adam Ivanovich? Throw them out or what? And there is no need for wisdom here to be wicked, provided that it is understood and so that we must go out and make a decision. Please, from the faction, after every statement, please. Vladislav Lukyanov, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] If we need to go to work, then why is the Supreme Council of Ukraine blocked, and why is the regulatory committee, by the way, not making any decisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u20	Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I have a question for you: What wise man made this decree that was accepted by people who were not in the hall? Give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u21	I'm giving you an answer. I'm giving you the answer that the Supreme Council should have everyone. And if you were to record and write a statement that there were no people in the session room who didn't vote, the ruling would not have been signed. So put an end to this blasphemy, and do your best to work. And I ask you once again, dear colleagues, let's make a decision. We have to keep moving. Does this opposition suit us? Please, who else is going to perform? Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, maybe we really have to listen. There is an opportunity to listen to what Adam Ivanovich said. Consider what has happened: we voted in favour of paragraphs 1 and 2 and did not vote in favour of the ruling in general. And if we return to the vote on this order and vote on the third paragraph and try to vote in general, we may have a problem that is not being resolved in the room at this time, which prevents us from moving forward. That is to say, you will return to the vote on this order and put to the vote 3 paragraphs and in general. In such a format, we may vote on the ruling and then unlock the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, we're here to advise, and we're in a situation. We voted in an article order, we voted in all the paragraphs. Now you propose to vote in favour of only one paragraph as a decree. Please tell me what to do with other items. Otherwise, the decision is not taken. The decision is not taken, you understand. That's why we're here. I'm talking to my colleagues on the right side of the hall. If we go out to unlock the rostrum, and now only one decision will vote on the difference in voting, what will we get with you? At least we can condemn the blockade of the rostrum or can't we condemn it? What are you trying to do, I can't understand? One paragraph of the ruling will now be adopted. What's next? Anatoly Matvienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u24	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I voted for both the first and the second and the third. But today it's about, if we can't do everything the way you want, you have to take at least one step to really get the Supreme Council to work. And let those who do not want the Supreme Council to work as they do. I want to draw your attention as an author to the first point. Well, if we vote it, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there's no point at all but recommendations for loads. What are the legal, legal consequences of this first paragraph? What, tomorrow? They're gonna block it? None. Because there is no mechanism to ensure that this item is implemented. This is a matter of the Rules. So Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if he doesn't pass, let's move at least. To vote, not on this decision, but on the proposal to reverse the decision that we have made and to start working in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u25	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, the logic is in yours. But I didn't accept it. I accepted the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the other hand, dear colleagues, you should pay attention, but we should at least make some political assessment, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can give when it takes a decision? And I should probably do that. Why do we not want to act on this matter? Who's up there? I see. No, just for one minute. Ephraim has already spoken, calm down. Sergey Vladislavovich and then Alexandrovska and we will vote. And there's Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u26	Sobolje, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think the logic of the first and second points is perfectly clear. The Supreme Council should have said that for two months there was actually one political force, namely the Party of the Regions, blocking the rostrum. And this is exactly what we should have done, and that's why our faction voted for both the first and the second. What's relevant to the third paragraph of the ruling is a paragraph that is not adopted by decrees, which requires a clear financial and economic justification. And I think the vast majority of the deputies in the session room understands very well that it's easier to break this year's budget. And who will then be responsible for unpaid pensions, wages, and rising unemployment in the state? That's why we demand that the issue of unwarranted increase in so-called social standards, because these are not social standards, they were voted in nominal mode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u28	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Paragraph two is completely pointless in its content, you'll excuse me for speaking so harshly. If we are guided by the logic of this paragraph, we now have the Supreme Council, and its activities are not normal, this is not the right thing to do. Another matter is that there are certain conflicts that arise in the hall and they require, so to speak, a settlement. But today, the work of the Supreme Council has sufficient regulatory basis for its activities to be legitimate. With regard to the first paragraph, how can a member act in the form of blocking a rostrum or other actions be recognized as contrary to the requirements of the law and the oath and the status of a member. For if we, the Communists, are in a minority, we need to pay attention to the need to address social problems that neither the Government nor the President nor the majority of parliament want to solve, we will probably also use such ways. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u29	Please, Anna Herman, then Oleg Zarubinski. Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u30	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've always been a man of state, and you've always been able to distinguish things from things of little importance. For all of us now and for you, raising social standards, wages and pensions is the ultimate goal, and you have to choose between whether to judge us here and judge us, and we're not afraid of court, in order to raise people's wages and pensions, you can condemn us. But let's do everything we can to make sure that the main thing is accepted today. I believe that you, as a person of state, will do everything possible to have the Supreme Council vote today to raise pensions and wages. If you don't, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're going to be disappointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u31	The main thing is not to let you down, it's important to me. Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u32	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, we've come up with a rather strange situation, absolutely allogeneic. See what's going on, the decision consists of four points, each paragraph has a positive vote. So each paragraph was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm surprised that those who voted in favour of the first paragraph now say they don't need it to be determined, but there's no logic, honest. And secondly, I would point out to you that the second point is necessary, because there is an effort to keep the Supreme Council on the hook all the time in a way that is constantly being submitted to the Constitutional Court. [[And you know it.]] And he decides that, you see, the activities of the Supreme Council are illegal, unconstitutional and so on. You're experienced parliamentarians and you all know that. All three points have a sense of exertion, and all three paragraphs have already been voted for. Let's make sense of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Let me now suggest our next move. The point is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not work, as a minimum, since September 1. Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, when it first met and began its work, should it give an assessment of this? She should. Or we can run around in corners and tell each other what we think. Allogic? Allogic. The other one. We voted on all three points of this decree. At the same time, however, the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not want to vote on it as a whole. You can say anything, but the Supreme Council obviously has to express its position that we should continue to work in the right-wing exclusive field. And that must be satisfaction for each other. So I'm going to put it to a vote like this. To return to the draft decision, please support it, to vote. No, we're going to find out again. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I'm voting for the return to the draft regulation, registration number 5190. Please vote. [[10:50:55]] For 208 You don't want to, dear fellows, you don't need to. I am voting on the repeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 22 September 2009 No1623-6 on the amendment of voting methods for bills relating to the increase in national social standards. Please vote. I ask you to vote. [[10:51:32]] For 234 Decision taken. Let us now move on to making a decision on the issues under discussion. We've discussed the draft laws of registration number 4762, 5091-1, 5091-2, 5091-3. All right, everybody, pay attention! – in order to register and discuss draft legislation, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on the establishment of living minimum and minimum wage. The author is the national deputy of Ukraine Oleg Zarubinsky. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:52:37]] For 259. The bill was passed. All of it. Based on the base. The factions, please. In general, if there's a denial, I can't. Just a minute. The faction of the Party of the Regions – 170, the Block of July Timoshenko – 3, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 39, the Communist faction – 26, the Block of Lithuania – 20, the non-fractional – 1. There was a call to vote in general. But there's, I see a denial, I can't put to the vote in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Well, Oleg Lazko denies it. People's deputies, on the other hand, deny it. Well, there is. Well, what am I going to call you? All of it. Oleg Lazko, please call his last name. Well, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u34	Oleg Laszko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for informing the public that I object. I really deny it. But I would like the citizens of the country to know why I object to the adoption of this law. We have adopted laws in the Supreme Council over the last 18 years that are not being implemented today -- about 300 billion. In this room, children of war were voted in. Why is this law not being fulfilled? Because there's no money under it. In this room, the Chernobyl benefits were voted in. Why are these benefits not paid to those black people who have lost their lives? Because there's no money. Why do they not drive free pensioners, veterans, disabled persons in public transport? Because they say there's no money. This law is exactly the same law. It's a crime against people, it's a crime against the state to vote for laws that are not financially strengthened. It's to keep people's heads shut before the election. After the election, those who cry out most for the protection of people’s interests will forget about them on the second day after the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, there is. Do you have a objection, Alexander Sergiyovich? Well, Ephraim, please. Efreme microphone, please. Now you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I understand that, according to the Rules, colleagues object to the adoption of a draft regulation as a whole. And not tomorrow, but today, people who need to be resolved have been forgotten. Vladimir Mihajlovich, there is then a proposal under the Rules to take a decision on the reduced procedure. If the hall agreed, Thursday could be considered. If not, within seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u37	Adam Martinyuk, please. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u38	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Volodymyr Mikhailovich, unfortunately, had some technical error. I'm determined that I didn't vote in favour of this bill, although I was pressing the button, so I publicly confirm that I, like all of our factions, support this decision. Please take my voice into account. And for the suggestions that are being made here, it would be worth it. Dear colleagues, you see 260-259 votes, it is clear that this bill is not today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow will be passed as a law. It would even be useful for the government to prepare more clearly and more quickly for the implementation of this law. We don't know what position the President will be, but today we should put a dot in this law so that the government would be able to implement this proposal more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u39	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u40	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I voted in favour of the adoption of this law in the first reading, but you definitely cannot right now shorten the deadline for its consideration or adopt it in the second reading. See the explanatory note to this bill. Paragraph 3 states: “Adoption of the law requires additional expenditure on the budget.” In this connection, the Cabinet of Ministers is proposed in the preparation of draft laws amending the State Budget for 2009 and taking into account the size of the living minimum for 2010 and so forth. I mean, there's no such thing. Infringement of article 3 and article 91 of the Rules of the Supreme Council and part two of article 27 of the Code of Budgets does not determine the cost of reducing and proposing additional income. So that's what we need to get right now, and in a calm order, we need to approve and make a proposal. We all have the right to amend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u41	Is that all you've talked about? Alexander Steshenko, please, the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Obviously, political relevance has taken over. We suggest that we go through a regular review of this bill, that is, the deadlines for preparing for the second reading, in view of the fact that a budgetary process has actually begun in the Supreme Council and that we should take a parallel course. Only then can we find some compromise and make a decision that would satisfy all parts of today's parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. So there is a denial that we should now make the final decision. And since there is a denial, we cannot accept it definitively. The second proposal was to shorten the consideration from 14 to 7 days. I'll put this proposal to the vote. Well, there's this proposal, the Rules allow it. That's what we're doing. Let me follow the Rules, dear colleagues. Please determine by vote. I am voting on the commission of the committee to consider and prepare for the second reading of the reduced procedure in accordance with the Rules. Please vote. [[10:59:38]] For 252 Decision taken. Let's move on now. Dear colleagues, we need to address the issue of inclusion in the agenda and, if included in the agenda, discuss and decide on the bill, this is a draft law on the application of additional measures to organise individual expenditures of the State budget of Ukraine aimed at increasing the size of state social standards and guarantees. [[Registration number 5115]] I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:00:29]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u44	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we certainly welcome the desire to unlock the work of the Supreme Council, but not in a legal or constitutional way. We are now deciding on the inclusion and consideration of a bill that has not been considered on any committee, although this is a matter of the State budget, which is a matter of a budget committee that there is no conclusion. What do you suggest we consider today? I don't think this issue can be considered at all today until the proper regulatory procedure is passed, or on the one hand you call for: let's not block the rostrum, and on the other hand, we actually do worse by such votes -- we block the rostrum, but they say, implicitly, we block the law and the Constitution in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the point is that the Conciliation Council decided a few weeks ago to review the social laws that exist, and this draft agenda is going through a third week. [[One minute!]] Therefore, the charges do not have any basis. Please, Anatoly Matvienko. It's not the first day of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u46	The Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, the “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to address you. Of course, the Supreme Council can make any decision, but as chairman, you have to report that the committee has not considered this issue, that the budget committee has not made it or has any other point of view. When you give complete information, it is clear that the MP understands how to vote. When you give complete information, you simply do not inform Parliament, and then there may be a mistake. So I'd like to ask you to inform us about all the periphery of a particular issue, and in this way let the MPs determine correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I inform you that at a meeting that we were supposed to be meeting earlier this week, it was agreed that this issue and a number of other issues that follow this bill would be considered essentially in a package, but would be considered separately, and the vote would be on each steering wheel, in order to remove any charges of blocking the consideration of these issues. This is the first time. Secondly, the committees responsible were instructed to deal with these issues urgently. Unfortunately, as the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had been blocked, so the work of the committees had been blocked. Then the Supreme Council of Ukraine must make a decision. I continued to ask the committee heads to attend the Conciliation Board meetings on Monday, which is yesterday, 10 committee heads were absent from the Conciliation Board. And all decisions made on the Conciliation Council are implemented. We, along with you, respected colleagues, did not consider it necessary to give a political assessment because the work is blocked not only by the Supreme Council but also by the committees. So I have to fight alone? Let's put our positions together at least once. If 170 blocks, 280 should say: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine must work.” But they don't want to do that. So let's move on to the relevant bill. The reporter is Herman Hanna Mikolayevna. Please. Please don't scream! Calm down! What do you suggest, dear colleagues? I want to say again that we are following up on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with you. I'm asking you to calm down. The question began to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 1047-17 of 03.03. 09 “For measures to organise the individual expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine”, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was obliged to organise the remuneration of individual categories of public officials by halving their maximum size. As a result of the adoption of the above-mentioned decision, the allocation of state funds by the Cabinet of Ministers should be reduced and the 2009 budget allocation of the State Budget of Ukraine made to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by means of the submission by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration of the relevant proposals. The purpose of the draft regulation is to ensure the efficient use of the expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine and to prevent an unjustified redistribution of the funds released. In particular, there is a limitation on the directing of the funds released by channelling them solely to increase the expenditure of the State budget of Ukraine in order to increase the size of state social standards and guarantees. Simply put, all of this is that all of this money that the state will save from lower wages for high-ranking officials went, not in an unknown direction, but to help the poorest population to raise social standards. This is the brief essence of this draft decision and I urge you all to vote for it. So the adoption of the Supreme Council's draft decree does not require additional funds from the State budget of Ukraine. The adoption of the proposed draft regulation will ensure that unwarranted spending of the government budget of Ukraine is prevented. It's not about cutting down, it's about not going anywhere, it's about going to poor people. I am confident that Parliament will support such a draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? If so, please sign in. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear Anna Mikolayevno, I would like to remind both the television audience and the radio audience to know the true story, as ten times the salary of senior officials has increased. And this took place on June 30, 2005, by the government of Yulia Timoshenko. So at the time, there was a substantial increase in wages, especially for the Prime Minister, the President, the Vice-Prime Minister and the Ministers. And now it's surprising that many today, and the Prime Minister says that high wages, and you know that the basic salary is the Prime Minister's salary. How do you see that we invite the Prime Minister of Ukraine to step down with the initiative to reduce his basic salary, which will result in an automatic reduction in the wages of both the President and the ministers and vice-presidents. Let her show you an example.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u51	An honest colleague, the whole of Ukraine, knows about this fact, knows when wages were raised unjustly to high officials. But you and I went up to that solid level when we told ourselves we were going to cut wages. I believe the Prime Minister is ready to cut his salary in order for all these savings to go to higher social standards. I believe that Julia Volodymyr is ready to abandon numerous guards today, many of them. I believe that all of us today are willing to live modestly, and all of these free funds are directed towards raising social costs. I wouldn't want us to blame each other right now for being promoted, and who's to blame for being promoted. There was a good time in Ukraine -- you could get promoted. Now is a difficult time to save, first of all, on yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u52	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u53	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, today, everyone watching our work has noticed that it has been legalized and not for the first time and a secret conspiracy that has been held long ago by the President of Ukraine and those who have supported it in this room, including many relatives from the faction “Our Ukraine” as well as the Party of Regions and several Ukrainian saviors who have appeared specifically for this meeting once in the last two months, I have not seen them here before. So I would like to suggest to you, Mrs. Anna, that you have already invited deputies to meet in the driveways and take money from them, even when it is done. Let me remind you that the Cabinet of Ministers had already reduced the salaries of the entire Cabinet of Ministers three months ago, as required by the Supreme Council's ruling. And unfortunately, we didn't do it because of your blocking. I propose the first act of handing "Migrija" over to the state, and this will make a good contribution to raising living standards and other MPs, except for your leader Janukovic, who took 140 hectares.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u54	Dear colleague! I'm prepared for a secret conspiracy, even with you, to raise social standards for our citizens. For people to have high wages and pensions, simple people who because of today’s unprofessional government cannot make ends meet. I'm willing to, in secret, talk to people like you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u55	Vladimir Romanovich Moisik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u56	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” please pass the word to the College of Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u57	People's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u58	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Anna Mikolayevna! According to your calculations or estimates of the factions that the costs will be accumulated as a result of this decline, and will it be bare populism, or will it really be effective support? Next question. Can you tell how many permanent ministerial deputies have grown during the last year? And one more question. We know that the district councils are not included in your decision, but practice shows that district council officials, district councils, have a higher salary order than the appropriate district administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u59	Now it's not about the shortcut. The draft of this regulation, I stress once again, is not about cutting wages, but about making those cutbacks that have already taken place to raise wages and pensions, not to other expenses. That's the point of this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u60	And, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u61	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I don't know who's going to answer that question, I don't think I'm going to report it. We're looking at the registration number 5115, right, Hanna Mikolayevna? It's a draft decision. The agenda for today’s meetings is that we are considering a draft law. But let's probably make it clear that we're not looking at a draft law, but we're looking at a draft regulation, because the document is registered to 5115 for a ruling. And with regard to what is proposed here, there is indeed a series of proposals for the Cabinet of Ministers to make proposals, amendments to the State Budget Act, so that the wages that the Cabinet of Ministers has reduced, which the National Deputies have not already paid, and the wages that should reduce to all the senior management and heads of state administrations, courts and prosecutors, to direct to the state budget, this economy, to the law that we have voted on today, and hopefully in the second reading we are voting on. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u62	Adam Ivanovich, all I have to do is thank you for the state's position and ask all the parliamentarians to support that the savings go to poor people, not to buy Mercedes and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for a discussion if there are any. Mikola Tomenko, please, microphone. Dear colleagues, sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that, given the technical, perhaps technical, circumstances that we have just begun to work after the blockade, I have also put forward draft decision 5154 on this issue. I just want to remind you that on March 3, we adopted a similar decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Hanna Mikolayevna reported it, with 99 percent of the text of our March 3rd ruling. Only this decree touched the deadline until the end of 2009, and I recall that it also offered to arrange the wages of the entire governing body of government, including the court, the prosecutor’s office, Nazbank. This decision was registered by the Supreme Council, and I mean the Head of the Supreme Council, Litvin, Lavrinović, Tomenko and faction leaders, received 374 votes. After this decision was approved, only members of the government cut their wages twice, and that is true. I'd like to be here. My colleagues were talking about the Prime Minister, and she's paid twice as much as she's with the National Deputy today. But under different circumstances, the prosecutor’s office, the courts, and others did not go that way. I'm informing you that Natzbank has increased his salary rather than cut it twice. So we can go two ways: we can think about it, and I support this idea, because we have to implement our March 3 decision, I've proposed another way: to our current decision, just one point, to continue its operation for another fiscal year, by January 1, 2011. We can vote again, because we've already adopted 90 percent of the text on March 3. You can move the date before the March 3rd ruling, as I suggested. In general, I want to say that it's quite clear that in a crisis, the whole system of power, executive, legislative, judicial, all institutions, such as Natzbank, would obviously have to show an example that, in a crisis situation, we have to help the country and society. So I support this idea, and I think the Supreme Council should start with itself and vote in favour of cutting wages twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the performances. Lukyanov Vladislav He will be followed by Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u66	Oh, Papiev! Please, Mikhalo Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u67	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine is grateful to all conscious people who voted in favour of the bill on raising social standards and social guarantees. The faction of the Ukraine Party voted in full for the bill that we adopted today as a basis, and I'm one of the authors, and we have a national MP, Pecklusenko. voted in favour of this law, too, because it is not who is the author of the law that is the main thing for us, it is important for us to have the people of Ukraine, our poorest sections of the population raise wages, raise pensions, raise social assistance for orphans, many children, disabled people, disabled children and many more groups of people who are currently suffering from unprofessional government activities, price increases and all other problems. Dear colleagues! When asked, where would we get the money? So today, in the speech of the people's deputy Azarov, it was clear and clear: to implement the bill that we voted on in the first reading today, the need is 2.8 billion dollars for this year. At the same time, let's compare these numbers. The Secretary of the Ukrainian President, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has more than two billion dollars. In addition, there are 340 million more bracelets that the Cabinet of Ministers spent on their commercials that we watch every day. In addition, more flights of specialties, charters, and others need to be added when all the worlds are being carried along by high - ranking workers. So the money to implement this law is there. And today it was necessary to vote on it in the second reading and in general. But that is the will and decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's when they say today that it's impossible to raise. I'll explain. We have the very construction of wages in this way: there is regulation 510 of June 30, 2005, which has established the Prime Minister's salary, and it has already accounted for the office salary of the President, the ministers, the national deputies of Ukraine as a percentage. If the government says they've cut their salary twice today, it's not true. Because no change to Decree 510 has been made by the government and so has the Prime Minister. And the Ukrainian people's deputies, by decree, have cut their wages by halving, and today we are determined by this decision to direct these funds to social benefits and to increase pensions and salaries. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the faction of the Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u68	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u69	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will certainly support this draft decision on the purpose of channelling these savings. This will be truly just and right. And this will allow a measure of social standards to be raised. And if anyone thinks that there's no need to raise social standards, I would like to remind the distinguished people that out of the 14 million pensioners, veterans and invalids over 10 get a pension of between 500 and 1,000 dollars, and the average pension of this category of our most vulnerable citizens is 680 dollars. The second thing I wanted to say. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'd like to clarify the situation a little bit, the information that came out of your mouth. You were talking about blocking the committee's work. Not only in the session hall, but also in the committee. I guess some of the committees didn't work. But I want to say that there are probably committees that have worked. In particular, I work at the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons as the first deputy and head. And I want to report that at the last meeting, as before, we've held meetings, we've considered planning issues, and so it's probably not entirely correct to say that all the committees didn't work. And the third. The decision that we are currently considering is somewhat related to the issue that was only voted in the first reading on the draft law on raising social standards. And there was a rumor from the representatives of the budget committee that there was no money in the state. Well, first of all, I would like to emphasize that this includes an evaluation of the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because of all the billboards, there's a whole different story. And that's just the actual evaluation of the activity. But there is another aspect of this problem. You know, all the national MPs at least those who meet with voters certainly know that prices and tariffs have skyrocketed in this year and late last year. But then, when decisions were made to increase not even the percentage, but rather to increase prices and tariffs, who asked the pensioner, the veteran, the disabled person, and whether he had any extra funds to pay for those costs. Probably not. The fares for public transportation in Kiev, the subway, and so forth increased 3.5 times, but nothing has changed for the better. No trains left.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u70	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u71	I want to finish what I started. To emphasize once again that this decree must indeed be voted on, and the faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u72	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, hands over the right to speak to Oleg Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u73	Dear previous colleagues are apparently discussing themselves by repeating, namely, Paul Stepanovich and the previous speaker, who are considering the draft decree. Ladies and gentlemen, we are considering not a draft regulation, but a draft of the Act “On the Use of Additional Measures to Sort Up Individual Expenditures of the State Budget”. That's what the bill is called. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have paid no attention to your violation of the requirements of the Constitution. I would like to draw attention to article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that only the State Budget Act defines any expenditure of the State on the general public, except the State Budget Act. And no other law. This is the direct norm of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And so even to consider this question today you had no right to consider it in the Supreme Council. I'm not talking about breaking the rules anymore. This is about the form of the question that we're looking at. Now, let's talk about the substance. I would like to remind you that Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko rightly pointed out that the Supreme Council on March 3, 2009, had voted in favour of a decision that had been proposed to the authorities of the State to reduce its costs in connection with the financial crisis. On March 18th, literally two weeks after the decision was taken by the Supreme Council, the Government of Ukraine adopted a decision reducing the expenditure on salaries for both the Prime Minister and ministers and all officials in government bodies. On March 18, the government issued an appropriate decree. The Supreme Council has not cut costs to date. This is Mrs. Herman speaking, and she's talking about letting the MPs go somewhere with a salary. I have a question for you, colleague of honor: have you given your wages to people? How much do you get paid? What's your salary? Tell the people. And I have the same thing as her and you all have, so let's not do populism. You get your own salary, you block the work of the Supreme Council for six months, and you go tell them that, you see, Litwin doesn't pay you. So why pay for it when you don't work! You don't vote for cuts, you don't want to work, you want to get a salary, and people like what you see, we care about you so much. So I don't think this law can be supported in any way, because it's anti-constitutional. There's the Budget Act, let's look at it. The government there cut the national deputies' salaries twice. So let's vote on the Budget Act and cut the salaries of the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u74	at the end of the day. I've only asked one of my esteemed colleagues, let's not lose the level and authority of the Supreme Council, which is practically gone. Let us talk in substance and not find out the relationship between ourselves. It's such a big request. Viacheslav Kirilenko is given the right to speak by Lilia Grigorovich. So, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u75	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues and honourable voters, today is of course an interesting agenda in the sense that after this bill there will still be 5-6 important bills for people on moratoriums, that they can't raise prices, and wages will go down. That's all right. The only question is that we have 15 presidential candidates in this room, and that they don't forget after the election campaign is over, that the Supreme Council will now take a decision. Because it's a strange pattern: only the elections -- everybody immediately mentions people, they bring moratoriums, they make increases, they make improvements; only the election is over -- the candidate loses, he starts talking in a completely different way. And it's a special feature of Ukrainian politics that people should simply recognize, not blindly trust, everything that's said in this room. Now it's about this decision and the MPs. It is all right that deputies need to be reduced and reduced as well as officials of all kinds. But the MPs still have the MP's touchiness and the MP's benefits. Thus, on these subjects, the eyes are shy. The bill on the abolition of parliamentary immunity is unmoved in Parliament for a year and a half. Neither BOOT nor the Party of Regions even want to think about this bill, but they want to keep the integrity to themselves. Why? Let's ask people. Illuminators. How many bills have not been tabled, including my own bill as a personal one, or they talk at the committee level, or they fail here successfully. Thus, a double standard that is proposed for a political purpose. And all of these decisions, which will now be considered, are now being submitted to Parliament for a political purpose. So I'm talking to people more than anything. Then, when they are voted on, we need to see how they are executed, including by the initiators themselves. And the group “For Ukraine!” will, of course, vote on all these bills as an old and old initiator of all kinds of restrictions on officials. Next. Now we're talking about economics and governments. I wonder when there will be a government that will learn not only to waste but also to earn money. Because money is less, less, and less, and the desire to spend more, more and more. Who will give, who will answer? The Ukrainian State. Only probably those who want to spend more and more will be gone. And the last. We're not going to deal with, indeed, serious questions, these decisions are crucial to the Ukrainian people. Because when the Ukrainian people have to pay everything through taxes and we have the worst tax system in Europe, what they didn't pay through taxes is to pay the clerk, and we have the biggest corruption in Europe, and then the state will take all the extra increases, as it has done with small businesses literally lately, there will be no change from these increases. And that's the truth of the populace decisions that are now being proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u76	National Deputy Gumenjuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Surrenders the right to speak to Lilia Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u77	Lilia Grigorović, MP “For Ukraine!”, “Our Ukraine”. Dear National Deputies! Dear people! After a month of sabotage, we seem to have come out of some reality, such a virtual, suppressed posters, slogans, and we feel that people do not understand objective reality. That's not true. At one pompous assembly on a working day, the leader named her team "Salamandre", which is a lot of people. Salamandres are amphibian reptiles, a weak and primitive nervous system, a nervous system, others at the time blocked the rostrum like ninja shells. People are good! And I'm addressing 450 homosapiens -- people sitting in this room -- and I want to bring you back to reality with that virtual reality by saying, "I can't live better than my people." Please tell me, hand to heart, a few thousand dollars will be taken away from you, will you live worse? That's not true! Two teams: Salamand and Ninja Shell – serve 20-30 large families in Ukraine. The MP's salary doesn't mean anything, the speaker said they got the envelopes, they don't even know how much to get, because all these two financial and industrial clans represented in politics are on fractional subsidies. We have a conscience, we play with people again, and we think that people do not understand! Yes, 20-30 families have a parliamentary and constitutional majority, and 46 million have only two or three dozen people who are now in the “For Ukraine” group. That's why I ask people not to play, people understand. If we make these decisions, we will normally support them, because we don't want or live, by the way, much better than our people. So I'd like to have the divisive states of deputy ministers there, which are increasing, because the deputy ministers have become like advocates for the destitute, and the district councils, how many substitutes there are, which have the costs and wages of twice as much as the district administrations. So we support in the first reading, let's not play games, let's not play games with people, because it's all pre-election bluffs and vanity, Mercedes, cars, locks that aren't included in the presidential declaration, that's where the robbery is. By the way, ten posters of "She Works" -- school bus, 20 posters of another candidate -- another school bus. At what cost we do it, we don't play with people, people are wise, they understand everything, and I think they'll express their position. Because we have Ukraine for 18 years, and people have learned to distinguish right from wrong, without looking at the violent agitation and zombieism that is happening today. Let us be honest in front of the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, perhaps in this way we should stop discussing the matter. No, we're at the end of the day. Then, please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, has already appeared, but he has been acting out of faction. Victor Slavuta. Please, Jaroslav Suhi, after that Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, the consideration of Bill 5115 should be a reason or a reason to discuss the elimination of our collective debt with you, which we owe to our electorate in the field of the consideration of social policy bills, especially in the area of improving social and labour relations in the context of the transformation of society on market principles. I would like to remind you that the Labour Code, Ukraine's last of the former Soviet Union, is not being adopted for a long time, a state that lives under the Labour Code of December 17, 1971. The coalition and most failed to adopt the Single Social Contribution and Social Dialogue Act. Against the backdrop of the galloping extinction of our nation, the session hall has never seen the bills for the introduction of a fifth type of compulsory state social insurance — health insurance. They're ready for consideration, but there's no government position and there's no majority position. There is little work to be done on the issues of targetedness and financial resources, which do not help, but only irritate people. Retirement reform has been halted. Neither the strategy for overcoming poverty nor the concept of reforming the pay system has ever been met by their legislative provisions. The main reason and the opposition that was in this session room, in which the whole society was involved, is that, firstly, we have accumulated for years, and more than once we have talked to colleagues about this, the negatives of the systemlessness of making decisions in the social sphere, usually either in elections, or after elections to please voters at any cost, usually at the expense of the voters themselves. In the hall, unfortunately, it is dominated by a quick, so-called rating score, and in the meantime, the national per capita income of Ukraine is $1,500 per year. In Guatemala 2400, Morocco 1700, in Albania 2500. Please tell me, when was the last time we had a conversation in this session room about productivity, about fundraising, about fundarms? Without the real sector of the economy, without the basic sectors of the national economy, you and I will be forced to continue to patch up the holes, searching for those little pieces of the budget pie that we can feed the poorest sections of the population. For you remember the words of wise John Kennedy: “If power cannot protect many poor, will the time come — it will not be able to protect the few rich? ” We should bear in mind that the social inequality in Ukraine and the differentiation in the pay of the work is falling apart and is becoming dangerous today. Ukraine is long ahead of countries with banana regimes. I propose this bill, 5115, to support the foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u80	People's MP Landik. Alexander Stoyan, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u81	Dear voters, dear colleagues! You know, it's very strange for me to hear from the authorities, from Fatherland, that there are no funds for meager social benefits: to raise pensions, to raise minimum wage. I want to remind you of just two digits, and let's think about what these numbers mean: the first figure, in 2009, the government approved the same living minimum that was in 2008, the wages of a minimum of 669, and the minimum pension of 498, plus 544. So at that level that was in 2008. But as long as you can't criticize the government, you know there's a decision that forbids not just criticizing Timoshenko, but also calling her "she," I'm going to thank you. I want to thank Julia Timoshenko and the entire government on behalf of the thousands of mothers they receive today, as much as 130 dollars to care for a child under the age of 3. I want to thank on behalf of the millions of pensioners who today receive a minimum pension of 544. One day, that's 17 bucks a day. All pensioners of Julia Timoshenko are thanked. I want to say thank you on behalf of the unemployed, and that is already millions, which have become a result of the poor government policy of supporting a domestic worker. Thank you on behalf of millions of teachers, doctors who have not received a penny this year for the extra payments. And many others thank you very much, thank you for working so hard. But the time has come to ask, and where are the profits that she will report in the country? It's time to ask, where's $10 billion, where's all that revenue? [[a to be transferred to the bracelet is 80 billion dollars, a third of the budget received from the International Monetary Fund]] Where did they go? Now I'm going back to the minimum of living, or do I have to change it? Dear colleagues, since 2002, the minimum of living has not been reviewed. He's under 100 bucks a month. And what does the Party of the Region offer? Does it require something big? See what the Party of Regions has to offer. As the poverty line is 772 bracelets, and beyond poverty, working people are working because the minimum 669 and beyond the poverty line are pensioners, because 544 are bracelets. We ask, let's implement the Law on State Social Standards, State Social Guarantees, the minimum wage is 800 dollars, we will bring the working man out of poverty; the minimum pension is about 650 dollars, we will bring him to the poverty line. Won't the Timoshenko Block raise its hand to vote for these social standards? Remember, Timoshenko said if she didn't pay her savings in two years, she'd be out of power in two years, she'd file a statement. Where's yours?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u82	Alexander Efraemov. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. The next one will be by Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u83	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, is indeed today in the Supreme Council a momentous day in the Supreme Council, as the Party of the Regions initiative on social protection for people in crisis has finally been implemented. And we've at least taken the first step of meeting people. I would like to thank, from this highest rostrum of our electorate State, which has succeeded in convincing some of the members of the coalition, both from the BJU, and from our Ukraine, that we cannot but respond to the Party of the Regions initiative. And to protect people socially. Indeed, there are few such deputies today in our Ukraine and in our country, but this has been voiced by those who have a conscience who have not been allowed to vote in favour of wage increases in order to protect at least some people. I hope and believe that with each day such deputies in both the EU and our Ukraine, who have a conscience and who return to the social needs of the people, there will be more and more. And I am deeply convinced that in January, when Janukovic becomes President, most of them will be in our Ukraine and in the BUTE, which will start to think about people. You know, today they're talking about, well, there's no money. Of course, at such a cost, there will never be money when three leaders of the country accompany them throughout the trip. When flying to any country, any head of parliament, any head of state, any head of government, still has a journalist's plane, about a hundred, yes. Of course, there's not enough money to spend that kind of money. You think about cynicism: the President's decree appears, and the government has already taken on a card. They say let's bury another half billion in the second monument to genocide and the Holocaust. Think about it! In America, the richest country in the world, and where the tragedy occurred, when 4,000 people died after the terrorist attack, the monument was frozen to honour the deaths before 2012. And we're told, let's keep building monuments and leave the people we need behind. Therefore, it is precisely today that we are proposing one source, one of the sources that is making it possible to use money economically, especially by reducing the salaries of officials, the Cabinet of Ministers, where Mrs. Timoshenko has torn away, has raised the wages of the Cabinet of Ministers to heaven by cutting off the real wages of people who are walking on the ground. And this is the economy we propose to allow for an increase in social standards. So we find real sources that will not affect inflation. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u84	The national deputy of Vyezovsky. The right to speak is passed on by a colleague of Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u85	Vladimir Vyezowski, "Our Ukraine", the parliamentary group "For Ukraine!" Dear Ukrainians! I'd like to make a statement, probably the position they'll agree with, and here they are. Seriously, this platform is now being used for one purpose – to maximize dividends for its candidate, because it works, the other protects, the third listens and does not forget to block the rostrum. I would also like to make a point that, in truth, the bill that we are currently considering is seriously relevant to the agenda, because it's one of those that allows me to speak, I'm going to fill in and save us the budget and be able to share the strong and the rich with the poor. It's fair, and it'll be for those citizens. Just like a number of other bills that are agreed upon in this room, but are registered, and in a larger way, they could complete or preserve the government's execution. First of all, it would be fair to start with us people's deputies. And the bill of relief has been registered by the authorship of so many representatives of the political forces here. Third. If we continue to work this way, if it works, and others block it, it's unfair to voter. Because when it was necessary to unlock that rostrum because it was possible to make one and the other megafractions, along with them and the smaller ones, about 10 billion on the Euro, there were opportunities to unlock this rostrum, to vote in favor of the Euro, remembering its pocket, and again making people poorer. Because we understand very well that 10 billion dollars the National Bank won't have a profit this year. But Julia Volodymyrna said she was going to be a mother, and others heard. I thought maybe something would stay in my pocket and vote. And they made all the Ukrainians poorer, because inflation is the worst in the poor. Mercedes, everyone knows, costs over $100,000. And those who have that kind of money have that money, not in a bracelet, but in dollars. They won't hear that inflation. And everyone else who comes to the store to buy a loaf of bread, sugar, grain, will hear that inflation, because others who want access to the 10 billion Euros want to steal it. And for that, the maximum number of deputies in that faction voted. Speaking of Euro, it's actually Euro to build at the expense of the poorest. And that's why I'm talking to two factions in the night divisions that agreed on this: "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" and the Party of Regions. Be fair before the electorate, if you have more of your powerful candidates and go to them, you perform from every rostrum as you care for the Ukrainian people. So what I'd like to say is that a fair bill should be accepted. And the group “For Ukraine! ” will vote for it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. May I have your attention, please? So let's say the name Hanna Herman in the speech, she has the right to a replica. And then we'll ask Deputy Minister Matwichko to express his position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u87	First of all, I would like to thank you all, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for today's Parliament has achieved what we've long wanted. We've taken the first step towards raising social standards. And with regard to the state-owned “talker” from the “Julia Timoshenko” Block, I'm going to give him half of my salary in the break account number of the “Pravex Bank”, to which I counted half of my salary to the sick child, as I promised. And I urge him to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u88	Thank you. Vladimir Matviyczuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u89	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I would like your permission to address Mrs. Herman personally. Mrs. Herman, you are the initiator of this draft decision. Please note what is written here. It says that 50 percent of the wages of employees of the National Bank, relevant government agencies, and organizations are falling. Dear Mrs. Herman, we have an average monthly salary of 1,700 dollars in local government administrations, an average of 2,000 dollars in local government. We have a 9 per cent salary for government officials this year, we have an average monthly salary in education, and I understand that this also applies here -- it's written "in institutions" -- it's worth 1,500 dollars. Double salary cuts -- that's just terrible. I'm told it's unacceptable. If you meant that you had to cut the salary for seniors, for national deputies, I'd like to point out the following. The level of wages for national deputies is not determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The minister’s office reduced the wages of ministers by 50 percent, and the salaries of government officials were reduced. So I'm told that it's impossible to make a decision like that. It needs to be worked out from the standpoint of high-planters, if that would benefit the state. I'm saying it's not going to be more than 4,000 people. And this is absolutely not a source of funding for the 100 billion costs offered for social needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u90	Thank you. It's Hanna Herman again. The last name was mentioned, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, I am not surprised that the country is living in such a terrible crisis. Because the deputy minister of finance doesn't know how to read documents. If the Deputy Minister of Finance had read the project that we're talking about right now, he wouldn't be talking such outright nonsense right now. That's all I can tell him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, we have not completed our consideration of just one request. Let's just settle our passions, and we'll understand one thing that good things are done without noise. The noise we've just heard is unnecessary – that's the first. The other one. I would ask some of the speakers here not to call their names so they don't take the word for it -- not to do gossip. Who's who, where and where they're flying. I mean. As long as there is power, and it will exercise its authority, it will work as it should. And to this respectable colleague, I'd ask him to look under his feet, and I think he'll see it all. And it'll explain why people, without any authority, have something that doesn't have presidents, ministers, prime ministers and speakers together. And calm down. And don't spread gossip that doesn't fit the reality. And now, dear fellows, I will put to the vote a draft decision to adopt it as a basis. I am voting on the basis of a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the use of additional measures to organise individual expenditures of the State budget of Ukraine aimed at increasing the size of state social standards and guarantees. [[Registration number 5115]] On the basis of that, please vote. Please vote on the basis. [[11:52:27]] For 316 They voted as the basis. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I would not be so obstinate as to the position of deputy minister of finance. There's our decision we've made. There is an amendment or a decision that I have made. I would also like us to act as we did on March 3. They just didn't do it. So that we do not get hurt, as we always begin with ministers and deputies, but with the common people. So either we can legally rework and let's say we vote the 16th so we don't eventually start, because it's clear here what we adopted on March 3rd, there were clearer formulations that are connected, there are clear categories of top officials in the country. And we don't take it to the lowest level of people who do their job well as civil servants. So we don't hit everyone. That's why it's possible. We'll work with the committee and we'll vote at 16 in total.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u94	We're not gonna make it. Let's work it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u95	Or on a committee. That's Vladimir Mikhailovich and Alexander Volodymyrovich talking, or we started working seriously, so I see we're all set to work seriously. Maybe then we can still work on the committee so that we really don't turn a good idea, a fair one, into an absurd one. So work it out and then take it all out for the next meeting, either on Wednesday or Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u96	George Carmazin, then Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I would like to refer you to the text of a decree that is now being voted on. Now they say the Deputy Minister of Finance was wrong and so on. Here is the text that I myself have underlined, and I point out that in violation of article 22 of the Constitution, which does not allow the narrowing of rights to be written, and I ask that these words be deleted. After the words “national bank employees”, it probably means the heads of the National Bank, who received a salary of 130,000 dollars, but not all employees, because there are those who receive a small salary. And then there's the coma. All of this needs to be removed: appropriate government agencies and organizations, heads of courts, prosecutors, other law enforcement agencies, including special status. And why are we saying that the deputy minister didn't see it? We can't let that happen to us, it's just a populist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u98	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u99	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, I would like to associate with Mr. Matthewchuk's Deputy Finance Minister and with Mikola Tomenko, because the authorities need to reduce. And that's what any person who's watching us and even those who're not watching us will tell you. But this decree reduces the wages of all lawyers of the relevant state institutions and organizations, without exception. So this decision could actually lead to the collapse of the public service. It's on the level of the head. That's how people run. They'll run, by the way, on the job market and there'll be just as much budget burden as just socialist funds. That's the first one. The other one. It is unacceptable to cut the pay twice for state-owned monopolies. Dear colleagues, there are not only directors in state enterprises, but people who work there as a result of such a difficult decision if we make it. So, really, we need to work on it, and in a calm environment, we need to get back to voting so we don't do anything stupid, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, in view of the need to finalize this document, we have accepted the basis for the work, please work on it. When he's ready, we'll get him out of here right away. But in doing so, such a request that we do so when we took the Order on the Reduction of Twice Wages and the “Scarpness” of the letter bearer actually took the matter into account that they had reduced their wages. Therefore, let us be careful, at ease, to make a reasonable decision as to what kind of wage is paid, and to make sure that the members of the line do not suffer. Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Here's a request, we should continue to consider a whole group of bills that have social sound. Maybe we'd continue to consider them in a simplified way by going through them quickly and going to the budget, actually, because there are a lot of questions. So if you don't mind, I'd like to put a motion to the vote for us to look at Bills 1026, 5093, 3426, 5094 and 5095 after the break, and then we'll go over the budget issues directly. Well, I'm saying, look at these questions. I'd like to support you. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to support it. Please be supportive. Well, then we won't get to the budget, dear colleagues. [[11:58:14]] For-157. Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u101	Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our meetings. Dear colleagues, the draft Law 1026 on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas, electricity, food, necessities, public transport services is under review. [[except taxi]] [[Registration number 1026]] Rapporteur – Matviev Valentin Grigorovitch, co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee on Economic Policy Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! This bill has been drafted by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and I, first of all, to stop the further robbery of our population through disproportionate, in most cases not balanced with the income levels of the overwhelming part of our citizens, the prices and the energy tariffs, the housing services, the food, the necessities. Therefore, the bill that we have proposed provides for a limitation of baseless growth, a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs. The adoption of this law will allow, above all, to protect the most vulnerable groups of the population, the constitutional right of our citizens to a sufficient standard of living. So I hope that today, in the face of a severe economic, financial crisis that our most vulnerable, as I have already said, are the ranks of the population, particularly the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the pensioners, the disabled, but the Supreme Council will adopt the proposed bill. It is clear that the second reading will have to be made with some refinement, particularly in the time frame for the October 1, 2007, calculation. And that's for sure. Because we introduced this bill, and more faithfully, it was registered with the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 20, 2008. I would like to emphasize, in particular, the honourable colleagues who are forecasting our Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u103	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u104	According to our Ukrainian experts, by the end of this year, the price increase in the consumer market is projected to exceed 15 percent. I think there's something we can all think about together. Therefore, I believe that it is not just our desire today but our responsibility to adopt the proposed bill. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u105	Thank you. Please, from the committee. Please. National MP Pierres, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u106	Deeply respected Vladimir Mihajlovich, deeply respected colleagues! The Committee was only going to consider this law tomorrow, and we have it on the agenda for tomorrow's committee. But, nevertheless, my opinion, if you want to know, I'll tell you that it should be accepted on first reading. Why? Because the vakhanali that we have on the pharmaceutical market today is impossible to understand or explain. And I think that the adoption of the law in first reading, in the first reading of such a law, will push us to put order in that direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u107	Please! Please, let's not find out. So have you finished the report or not? Thank you. That's it, thank you. Then please, dear colleagues, sign up for the discussion: two for, two for, two against. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. And Valentine's Teeth after him. “No” is not available, all are “for”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u108	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, that's how the American economy got sick. And the virus of this pain has spread to all countries and continents, and it has reached Ukraine. And despite the triumphant relations and the assurances of Julia Vladimirovna that this disease will not come to us, because we are minimally integrated into the world's management system, and we were probably the only country in the world that has ever seen this pain American with dilated hugs, with salt. But this virus has gone deep into the body of our economy – the economy has become sick. But another question arises. Why, if the disease is the same in America and we, and in Western Europe, are treated for one recipe and we have another. That's where the money came in first. created a stabilization fund – money went to the real economy, to stimulate and develop the internal market, to facilitate the tax press, and Americans went on the road, which even started to pay back taxes paid last year, and most importantly, to protect people socially. Fighting for every job. We've got everything right on the contrary. A memorandum was signed by Mrs. Timoshenko and Mr. Yushchenko, where commitments were made to the International Monetary Fund and to the freezing of social standards, and to the increasing tax burden, and to the non-support of the real economy, and to the non-development of the internal market. And that's why we're stuck in the tail of events. Therefore, today, of course, until today, with the initiative of the Party of the Regions, a step towards protecting social standards has not been taken, but this is a miserable step — what we have done, but still prices are rising — and people are not getting used to the price. Therefore, if the ruling coalition is against raising social standards, it is necessary to have a conscience, at least the prices must be frozen. It's not like people won't survive the winter, they won't live. I believe the Party of the Regions considers the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u109	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u110	The Party of the Regions proposes to adopt the bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u111	Thank you. Please Valentin Sergiyovich Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u112	Valentin Zubov, “Bloka Yulii Timoshenko” faction. Dear colleagues, the issue that we are considering is extremely pressing. We're on the eve of a new heating season. Of course, every family in Ukraine is thinking about how this heating season will go. I would like to make such a proposal. And the Bureau, and I also address you, distinguished colleagues, here is my previous colleague, the rapporteur talking about anything, about Kabmin's bad work, about Timoshenko, but he didn't really talk about the problem. In fact, 18 years of housing and utilities have been falling apart and no one has invested, nor has the Government of Yanukovic, nor has the Government of other prime ministers other than Julia. Not a penny to set up a normal housing and utility business. The bill is essential and must be adopted on first reading. But that's just an "a" for "a" to say "b". What do we do next? Where to look for funds, billions of dollars to put order in this critical area. And it seems to me that our task of all the people's deputies is to support this bill today, but it is imperative that a committee be entrusted with the task of developing a special programme to improve the housing and utility sphere, because there will be more than one Alchevsk. Eighteen years of not a penny has been invested in housing and utilities. Of course, there will be upheavals, there will be cold, there will be everything, but trying to bring all this down on the Timoshenko government is just a nightmare. You'll excuse my suddenness. You understand how anything can be said can be criticized by the Government, but by a government that has been working for two years. Solve a problem that has accumulated for 20 years. That is why I believe that this bill should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. Please. Xenia Leapina has the right of the faction to express its position. And then Adam Martinyuk. Turn on the Xenia Lapina microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u114	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, we are now proving to each other who prefer the people. So I want to tell you, they've fallen in love with him so far that he's going to shoot us. You're sorry, but it's just hyperpopulism: we're building communism in a separate country. It won't work. You can't market and buy and then impose a moratorium on the economy. It's either that way or that way. The mix doesn't work. I want to point out that in such a moratorium on housing-communal tariffs, we're going to bury everyone under one ridge, and we're going to lead to the fact that the housing-communal sphere just won't work. And when people don't have hot water in the winter, or there won't be a battery working in the winter, they'll remember us with you and they'll tell us that you, your honor, have made us your moratorium. We are definitely against that approach. We have local authorities who have to determine economically balanced tariffs, and they have to be calculated on the basis of specific circumstances in a particular area that is fundamentally different from the city. And it can't be done by one law. This law will still not work in the end. And they will seek by local authority ways to circumvent this law. I am absolutely against this law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u115	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u116	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. It is unfortunate that my colleague is firmly against such a law that comes out logically of the law that they voted for and for which they actively aggrieved. This is about the Zarubinsky colleague's bill, which we supported, about social standards and about raising the minimum wage. These bills are directly linked. Because we can raise wages and social standards dozens of times, but prices can eat it all up. If we don't set up a moratorium, the bill we've adopted will mean absolutely nothing, we'll just encourage people. This is one moment. One second. I would like to point out that this isn't just about housing services and housing and utilities, it's one of the segments of this bill. In fact, it's probably the most important thing that affects, especially the most vulnerable category of our population -- workers who have the least income. And this is all about setting up, more precisely, we recommend, because it is the right and duty of the Cabinet of Ministers to set a moratorium on raising prices for the most important, essential people's lives until (a) the debt on wages is eliminated. And you know, unfortunately for you, the debt on your salary doesn't just go down, it goes up. The other one. The moratorium by the time we finally get there, we're a little close to comparing the two values by the Zarubinsky bill. The level of subsistence. The size of the living and the minimum wage. But even under that bill, there's still a difference of 40 bucks. So when the minimum level of living is the minimum wage for both students, and scholarships, and pensions, then you can continue to raise prices. That's why I think of colleagues, and I urge you, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u117	Thank you. Oleg. That's how Valentin Zubov was doing, one minute. I already called Oleg Lazko, I'm sorry. What? One minute, I know it'll be one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u118	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u119	The fact is that the fact that the faction has already come out of the faction is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u120	I'll try one, though. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Let's not fool ourselves or people, shall we? Neither will the previous law that we passed, can be written on paper, but money is needed to enforce it, and this law will not work. Once again, we want people to like us before the elections, we accept the moratorium on price increases, the tariffs in the gas station, and so on. Well, we've adopted a moratorium, so it'll prevent Chernevski from raising his tariffs in Kiev? So he stops serving water, he says, "Go to the Supreme Council, let her pay me the difference." Whether it is hot to give and so forth. Let us accept the moratorium so that the sun does not rise or set. So these issues need to be addressed by improving the country's economic situation, creating conditions for business, economics, entrepreneurship, making people earn wages, making businesses pay taxes and making them pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u122	For the wages that people get, they have the opportunity to pay for services and everything else. So you don't have to bother people with your head, but you have to adopt real laws in this room that improve the investment climate that will bring the economy back to life. And by way of bans, let's remember after the election, let's see how this moratorium works in a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the performances have already taken place. One minute, okay. Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u124	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, you know what I'd like to remind you of the history of this bill in general. Those Ukrainian national MPs who were on the fourth call, you will recall Bill No. 8681, which was voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole with the same analogous edition. After that, the President vetoed the veto once and for the second time, so draw attention to the fact that the first necessity appeared in the Supreme Council during the first administration of Yulia Timoshenko and now, the second necessity for the adoption of the law appeared during the second administration of the Timoshenko Government. Because of the increase in debt on wages, the decline in the real income of citizens, the rise in housing and utility tariffs, and the absolute logic of this law is. If people's real incomes are declining, they need to be banned from raising prices and tariffs for residential services and essential goods. That's why the faction supports this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! The bill is closed. Let me sum up that today average housing services per owner of a special account increased by 26.2 per cent compared to the corresponding period of 2008 with an electricity bill of 100 KWh of 182 bracelets of 40 kp. Debt for housing services, it's slightly reduced, but at the same time it's up to 8 billion 766 million. And now to restore in memory what Michael Papiev said and to restore historical justice, I remind you that on January 19, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law entitled “On the Moratorium to Raise Prices and Tariffs on Housing Services and Domesticly Used Natural Gas, Electricity, Public Transport Services. ” [[except taxi]] The president of Ukraine applied the veto to this law. On March 15, the Supreme Council of Ukraine overcame the President's veto, not the veto, but rather adopted it in a new edition, partly taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine again applied the veto to this law, and on September 22, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine overcame the veto. At that time, 340 deputies voted in favour of the veto. And by factions: Region Party – 183, Block Timoshenko – 100, “Our Ukraine” – 4, Socialists – 30, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 3. At the same time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 5, 2007. In 2006, I remind you again, on October 5, 2006, she passed a decision and revoked her decision. Remind me who voted for him? I'll remind you. I'll be right back. 249 people were canceled. Repeal regions – 184, Block Timoshenko – 7, Our Ukraine – 3, SPI – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 4. That's why, dear colleagues, I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law on moratoriums on higher prices and tariffs for residential services and consumption of natural gas, electricity, food products, necessities, public transport services, please vote. [[except taxi]] [[Registration number 1026]] [[12:50:56]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 149, “Block of Timoshenko” – 3, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Communist faction – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 20, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the return to draft Law 1026, please. [[12:51:39]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Now we go to the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential services for the population. [[Registration number 5093]] Dear colleagues, I am the author of this document. It's yours. The suggestions were about why it should be done. I'm totally into them. The point is that this decree contains recommendations from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It's a subject-matter issue, and it's up to 1 January 2011 to make an appropriate decision on how to secure a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential and utility services for the population. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is encouraged to ensure that the requirements of the Ukrainian Law “On Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity” are implemented without delay with regard to the publication of draft acts on the establishment of housing and utility prices after the end of the moratorium provided for in paragraph 1 of this regulation and their open discussion with the participation of representatives of the public. And there are appropriate orders, and it is proposed to give appropriate instructions to the Antimonopoly Committee to verify the validity of the tariff decisions. [[The report was completed.]] Please, the committee. Please sign in if you need to talk. Sign up. We have to follow the Rules. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, Communist faction, then Vladimir Bondarenko, then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u126	Honorable fellow members of the national MPs, according to a large account, are an alternative bill to a man who, unfortunately, has not just received support. It's only here that there's more detail in the sense that there was a question of imposing a moratorium on price increases and tariffs until we eliminate the debt on wages and until we have the same amount of the average cost. minimum wage and standard of living. Here Vladimir Mikhailovich proposes something more specific in the sense that he calls specific dates to which period to freeze price increases. It's about what we're talking about, what we're calculating, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what we're talking about, what's going to happen here, what's happening here, what's happening here, what's happening here, what's happening here, what's happening here? So you can essentially say that in the solution, the solutions are about what's being proposed right before the crisis comes out, when we get out of the crisis, we don't translate the crisis into people and we set up a moratorium on price increases and tariffs. Once again, it's not a law, it's a decree. This decision proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers be given the task of establishing these prices and tariffs according to the law. Again and again, I ask those, especially those who voted in favour of the Zarubinsky bill, to support this decision. Because if we don't make a similar decision, any of our good intentions to raise social standards and minimum wage levels will prove to be nothing. So once again, please, let's give this order to the Cabinet of Ministers and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u127	Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u128	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, you can talk about how the government works poorly or well, but you cannot fail to speak competently about the area in which a person understands poorly. First of all, I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that prices and tariffs in the housing and utility system are shaped in different ways. First of all, what NCRE does is it sets prices for electricity and some other tariffs, including energy. I'd like to point out that local councils are the main ones in the formation of housing and utility tariffs, especially housing services, because in every place these are completely different prices that come out of local conditions. I would also like to point out that there is a system in place in Ukraine today where subsidies fill the deficit of money that people have in connection with the fact that their total income does not provide payment for these services. And I would also like to point out that today more law enforcement agencies need to work on housing and utility tariffs. In Kiev, in particular, as a result of my correspondence with the prosecutor’s office, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs found that 71 million dollars had been deposited last year on the oil transfer when the chemical formula was replaced. Until now, the Attorney General has covered up the city’s Kiev head and those who stole the money and has failed to complete the case that the U.S. That's 71 million. It should be noted that in Kiev, the amount of insurance in the housing and utility system will exceed 1 billion dollars. That's where the money goes. And today we're kind of protecting children, and these thieves who work today, including local authorities, are stealing this money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u129	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, please the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! In fact, when I was preparing for this bill, I was thinking of building my own speech in a different way, but unfortunately, in the hall of those who were calling for professional conversation, there was politics again. I'm in the fraction of BUTU asking, "Where is the limit of cynicism and your hypocrisy?" Remember February 2007, a working group is sitting in the office of a colleague here, Olga Bodnar, and we are preparing a bill to demand the opposition then. At the same time, you were chasing like a wurdolag on a broom hall: “Let the moratorium rise, you can’t do that.” The shield was immediately blocked. I'm putting a bill ready, I'm putting this bill into the hall, boom, lights out, the whole fire extinguishing system and all that. [[co-sponsors: Kuibida, Shkutak, Timoshenko, Suhiy, Chairman of Adam Martinyuk]] Where is the limit of cynicism? At the time, you demanded a moratorium. Actually, I want to do why I signed up against it. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have in my hands the decision of the Constitutional Court on March 2, 1999. Bill submitted to our colleague Alexander Stoyan under the same name for a moratorium on price increases and tariffs and so forth. What has the Constitutional Court established? The Supreme Council of Ukraine went beyond the powers established by the Constitution, intervened in the authorization of executive authorities and local authorities, in violation of articles 6 and 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court has decided to recognize those who do not comply with the Constitution, is an unconstitutional Act of Ukraine on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for housing and public transport services, as of July 23, 98, the bill number was 5114. So I'm just obliged by the Committee on Social Policy and Work to put my respectable colleagues to the knowledge that such a decision by the Constitutional Court is, it's not cancelled and it can't be cancelled. Thank you. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u131	Question completed. It's a show. Wasn't it from the faction? It was from the faction of the performance, but one minute. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we can compare 99th year to 2009, but we can compare 99th year to 1913. You see, the situation is quite different, and you understand that. When there was a gradual growth in the economy in the 99th year, but it's slow, but still growing, we remember that, today my colleagues are talking about cutting GDP, reducing opportunities, briefing points, and briefing briefings, and so on, and so on. And so it's virtually impossible to compare these things. Today, giving people the opportunity to at least pay for the housing and utilities they can pay for it is already a huge achievement. And I think we should take an objective look at this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u133	Olga Bodnar, please. They've already come out of factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u134	No, it was me, it was me. I'm a party to that bill Suhi said. At this point, what I'm trying to say is that it's about housing and utilities, probably none of you are secret. If today's task is the mayor of Kiev, I own this information, completely eliminate all of the Jackets and subjugate them to myself, it's the best way right now to provide him with that desire. I don't see any other choice for today, how, in carrying out current legislation, to make a gradual increase, but within reasonable, communal tariffs and prices, in view of what's going on in housing-communal reform, and what we're now saying needs quality services for the population. When we were passing that bill, we were saying, we need to create, we need to give the authority to set tariffs on NCRE. If only we'd spoken to this one today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Oleg Popov. It's one minute, if you didn't sign up, for a faction statement. Please. And the factions have already come from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u136	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Why are housing and utility tariffs rising? I think that this is not a secret for all, including for the population of Ukraine. The thing is, energy prices are rising: natural gas, electricity. Indeed, during the calendar year, the population of Ukraine paid 3 billion dollars more in fines than in the previous period. Therefore, my deep conviction, and this is the view of our committee, that if we make such a decision, we must take it in the context of another problem, a moratorium on the price of natural gas, electricity for housing and utilities. These enterprises are already at a loss: 1 billion $600 million today. This point must be taken into account and taken into account in the context of the finalization of the draft decision, and this problem will be resolved in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u137	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u138	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, well, we are all aware that the Supreme Council of Ukraine today has finally matured to what it has decided, let alone in its first reading, but on increasing social standards. And I hope that we were all conscious and wanted to do our best. But one more thing to understand is, if we're the right decision, we're not going to at least complete it with the Supreme Council's ruling, the one that's being considered right now, it's going to be, as they say, a blunt shot. Because we realize that there's been more than one increase in pensions, a raise in wages, and as long as we don't hold back the rise in prices and tariffs, it all went up, as they say, into the pipe. So these are connected things, and it is imperative to vote on this decision in support of the decision we made in the morning to increase social standards. These things are bound together, and only in the complex can they produce an appropriate result.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let us sum it up for the Constitutional Court to decide there. The Supreme Council is treated as it permits. And soon we'll be in control if we don't find the will to speak up. As for the offer of a colleague of Popov that gas and energy were needed, the tariffs did not rise, you know the government's statement that they would not rise. That's why we're going to unison here, that's how we see it anyway. Since the discussion is over, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential services for the population, please vote. [[Registration number 5093]] Based on the base. [[13:06:44]] For 223 The decision is not taken. The factions. Please, let's calm down. Region Party - 166, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 4, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense – 5, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 20, non-fractional – 1. I am voting on the motion to return to the draft regulation 5093. About the return. [[13:07:24]] For 223 The decision is not taken. The draft decision was rejected. By factions, please: Region Party - 170, Lithium Block - 3, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 2, Communists - 27, Block of Lithuania - 2, non-fractional - 1. The draft Law on the Moratorium on the raising of prices and tariffs for medical devices and medical devices is announced for consideration," registration number 3426. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Josephovich Matviev. The Coroner is the head of the committee of Tetjana Bachtieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, the people of Ukraine! The need for a draft Law on the Moratorium to raise prices and tariffs for medicines and medical supplies was due to a sharp and unjustified increase in drug prices in October 2008. At that time, pharmacists, rather than producers, from the submission of the highest officials, formed and introduced prices at the cost of a dollar in 15 bracelets. That is, they expected a threefold increase in the US dollar in Ukraine by the end of 2008. Only the introduction of a moratorium could save the population from drugs. Therefore, the Ukrainian National Deputies Simonenko Petr Nikolajevic and I have submitted a draft law on the imposition of a moratorium on prices. for medicines and medicines. of medical use. The ruling, including the President, opposed the adoption of the moratorium, the Cabinet of Ministers organized price monitoring. As a result, following the introduction and monitoring of the draft Moratorium Act in the first quarter of 2009, prices increased by another 30 per cent, with the same increase in the second quarter of 2009. That's it. Only on the list of drugs monitored by the Cabinet of Ministers. This was not justified by any market laws, no laws of human morality. It turns out that almost two thirds of the funds seized from the population for the purchase of the drug have been obtained in an immoral manner and must be returned to the population simply. Vakhanalia, with prices for drugs, has led to the removal of the majority of the population from drugs. Prices have become a barrier, and this has led to a further increase in counterfeiting. Today, according to medical examiners, about 60 per cent of all drugs have been falsified.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u141	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u142	The need to stop the increase in drug prices is today the adoption of a moratorium law. Therefore, the Government has taken virtually no effective action. Even that decision that. The draft regulation, which had been prepared on State price regulation, had not yet been adopted. I ask that the law be voted on first reading, despite the fact that it has not been considered on the Committee. The medics all support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u143	Thank you. From the committee, please, Aunt Dmitrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The bill under consideration is proposed to establish a moratorium on all types of drugs and domestic and import production during the financial crisis. In addition, domestic production is proposed at prices regulated by the State and import products at prices of 1 June 2008. This bill has not yet been considered by our committee because there have been no findings of scientific and expert management. But we'll look into it tomorrow. And our committee has already reviewed the activities of the State Inspectorate for Drug Quality Control eight times this year. And the opinion of all the people's deputies, all five factions represented on our committee, that the inspection is not working well. And the position taken by the Government to adjust prices, control the quality of prices, can be said, and according to the quality of the drugs themselves, is not being implemented in our country today. Only those schemes that work today, on the contrary, require an artificial increase in prices. And we've already found that the dollar's course doesn't really affect it, but only those schemes that need to be paid and for everything, literally, for license, for language, for control, for information and so on. Therefore, we very much ask that all members of the people support this bill in their first reading in order to ensure that the Government and, taking into account the two Presidential decrees, which have been directed to completely eliminate this established inspection in violation of all laws, in order to regulate the activities of the administration, and then, I think that the population that today is taking the drugs, which is an enormous number, according to the UN, 70 per cent of Ukrainians today are on the poverty line. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u145	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u146	And the cost of just medicine to treat a cold disease today is 600-500 bracelets. So today, we're talking about the cost of heart disease, onco-, tuberculosis, it's just a few thousand, tens, even bracelets. Therefore, we ask that this issue be not indifferent to everyone; we today, the people's deputies, have a mass of references to what is being done to medicines, why such wild prices. And the fact that quality is questionable today, but it only establishes inspection visibly, is also what we have seen. Therefore, our committee is still initiating a decree on the report of the Minister of Health on the work of this inspection, and today we ask that everyone be supported in the first reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The position of the committee is public, if there is a need to exchange ideas, please register. I ask you to register, two for, two against. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Jaroslav Suhi, then Valentin Zubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u148	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Of course, this project must be accepted, and it must be supported. I want to tell you that the draft of the Law on Moratorium for raising prices and tariffs for medical supplies and medical supplies has long been adopted. But I want to say something else right now, the point is that this is exactly how, such bills that have social sounding, we can encourage the government to do what it has to do, namely the development of a domestic producer, including, the development and support of the production of our Ukrainian medicine. Look at the way in which these drugs, the way in which completely immoral people make money on pharmaceuticals. Remember, respected colleagues, like the patient, in the hands of a reference to where he should go, to which pharmacy and exactly what kind of medicine to buy. The adoption of this bill should also be an incentive for us to move on. Dear colleagues, you can't accept the advertising of the drugs that have now flooded our television screens. It's impossible, any pain, whatever people are ready for you right now are self-medicating, the consequences are even worse, the pharmaceutical barons have crazy profits. I think that this bill, it aims not only to reduce the pressure on the pocket, on the budget of every Ukrainian family, but it must still be an incentive for our government and for the majority in Parliament to undertake a thorough and thorough reform of the health system. Because in the circumstances of the galloping extinction of the Ukrainian nation, we can no longer accept the state of things that are in medicine. Medicine for a simple person, medical facilities for a simple person have become simply inaccessible, this has happened to us in front of you. We're in a position to fix this situation and we're going to fix it, we need to back up the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u149	Valentin Zubov, a faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”, will then be performed by Peter Stepanovich Cibenko instead of Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, if the bill that we have just considered introducing a moratorium on housing and utility services has serious problems, because budget losses would be serious, there is a need for serious money. Here, this bill, if there are budget losses, is minimal, but the benefits are very serious because the older generation, the participants in the Great Homeland War, the pensioners are in a terrible situation because the prices for drugs are simply not available to them. I'll tell you the truth, I felt it on me, because two years ago I transferred the surgery to my heart and had to take blood-inflammatory drugs every day. There's this Plavex drug, if I first bought it for 200 bracelets two years ago, today it's 480-550 in Kiev. But the worst part is, I got the same drug in Donetsk district about 230 bracelets a month ago. So, wild random in this area, I'm saying this in order for us to understand that we, the people's deputies, can somehow provide, and our people, who for the rest of our lives, have given all our health to the country and today we can't help them. I believe that there is a well-established drug system in place in the country, run by the drug mafia. I think this is the business he's in today's second or third place after drugs and arms trade. That is why I think we must support this bill. I will not understand any national MP who will vote against this bill. Because to speak well, to promise people high standards and not to worry that they have the opportunity to acquire the necessary medicines at affordable prices, it is simply not possible. I ask you, distinguished colleagues, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u151	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Then there's Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u152	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Likely, fellow MPs remember that four months ago, on June 3, 2009, in these walls, there were parliamentary hearings in this room about the enforcement of current legislation in part of the medical, social, pension protection of war veterans and preparation for the 65-year-old Victory over Fascism, and here from this rostrum people were literally saying that the prices of medicine for veterans were virtually undisturbed. Because they've recently jumped on a lot of drugs three or four times. And today veterans are very often unable to buy these drugs. That is why this decision needs to be made. Why don't I, for example, get caught up in the vetting business today? What document is it? Act 333 of the Cabinet of Ministers, which was adopted on March 25, 2009. But it's fixed that level of prices and trade-related purchase premiums that were already made in spring of this year, i.e. with a three-fold increase. And secondly, this regulation regulates prices and tariffs for 215 total drug appointments, and needs at least a thousand appointments. So I would like to say that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will definitely support this bill. Indeed, it is necessary to accept it, for the decision that is taken is, unfortunately, not working. It does not settle the situation that is today. And we need to protect them today in terms of lowering the standard of living. Ukraine's company will vote for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u153	Yuri Karmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u154	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! First of all, dear Mr. Head! At some point today, we are considering laws without expert conclusions, without the committee's opinion. We have one person's opinion, although I respect him very much, we cannot replace it with the thought of a committee. Justified, calculated and so on. We don't know the opinion of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Economics, I'm not talking about other things. The goal is very good. Well, who's against price hikes? And the means of implementation is very simple. Seven sentences, one article and all the questions answered. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't we just vote for a moratorium, say, aging or something. Well, we voted. They've solved the question. Seven lines and it's settled. So I don't think there's any mechanism for implementing this declaration. As soon as we're discussing this issue, I'm sure there's already a copy of the valuables in the pharmacies. Prices are copied immediately. Why did they start copying them as soon as the dollar began to run forward? So this is the way out. First. We need to make sure that there are municipal pharmacies and pharmacies that are state-run. Then there's a guarantee that there's going to be a stable price level. First. The other one. Obviously, the source of price cuts should be the development of domestic analogues of many Western drugs and barriers to Western drugs that should be smart. Obviously, we have to stop the pharmaceutical mafia, including with the help of law enforcement agencies, including protectionist laws for our own medicine. So, dear friends, I think it's pure slogans that won't give anything, unfortunately, too much. Although it's a very good idea. I'm up for the idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, Katerina Vaschuk, please, one minute, the Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, our faction will normally support this law. Although I am absolutely in agreement with my colleague Karmazin, when it comes to health care, the authorities should be more than careful. How could we have allowed ourselves to have no municipal, government pharmacies? How could it be allowed that a large number of medicines that were cheaper produced in Ukraine were substituted for imports, and today at prices they are not available to our people? But every MP knows that the biggest complaint today is that no medicine, food, and medicine can be bought. Thus, there may be imperfection in the law, but it is necessary to accept it in order to allow the committee to draw conclusions and propose specific ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Paul Zebravsky, please. The discussion is concluded, Your Honor. And Kulikov will be one minute to complete everything. Well, let's have the main vote. Paul Zebravsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u158	Dear friends! about returning to some things that are not understood, things that go beyond logic. Today you will stop and adopt this law. The same distributors will find it uncomfortable to import, travel abroad, and buy medicines. No one's gonna sell the damage, you have to understand that. Is there a logic to which there is a direction in this part, but there is actually a need to support a domestic producer, where prices have not risen significantly. In this direction, what would be the law? He would have been logical, he would have been sound. What you're proposing today, you're offering utopia, no more, no less. And in a large account of no political dividends you'll get out of it, you'll just get disgrace. And you're so impressed that when you're in Parliament in 2009, you're in the theater of absurdity. Guys, stop making Parliament a theater of absurdity, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u159	Vladimir Matviev, please, microphone, and then Kulikov. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u160	Here's the deal. I'm the author of the law. A reasonable suggestion was, of course, proposed and that State pharmacies should be restored and that there was no conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Committee. The bill was filed almost a year ago. During that time, both the Scientific and Expert Committee and the Government and the Committee of any kind on the subject could have considered and any MP could have already made proposals there. Nobody did that. It was totally indifferent to everyone. That's the first one. Second. So hopefully now, as long as we consider this bill or reject it, there'll be a state-of-the-art drug case here quickly, and the format is utopia. We know that the State will not do anything about it. Therefore, the only way today is to get the State to move and think governing the regime; it is to ban them from selling drugs at prices that are completely unreasonably set three times higher than they should be economically justified on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u161	People's MP Kulikov. Please, Kirilo Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u162	Mr. Carmazin's idea was that you needed state pharmacies, you needed utility pharmacies. But what I'm saying is that in Kiev, for example, the prices of medicine in utility pharmacies are even higher than in commercial pharmacies. The second is that today the utility network of drugstores in Kiev is bankrupt. All these businesses, these pharmacies, they're corrupt, but everyone who works, they're private, they're very profitable, that's the first. The other one. What we're using today is they're not drugs, we're using quality very bad, we're using chalk, we're using poison. But we don't have any labs that determine what we're using today. And these are two questions that we have to answer. I know a lot of drug manufacturers, drugs that are banned all over the world, but they're sold in Ukraine. And that's a question that we should pay attention to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. And once again, I would ask my colleague to understand why this package of bills is standing. The point is that we agreed during the Conciliation Board meeting when we're looking at state social standards, then we'll look at all of these issues that relate to regulatory proposals and prices for medicines, basic food products, and the same applies to the communal sphere, so that we can close this topic once and for all, so that there are no mutual accusations that we don't listen to people. So, dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a proposal -- to adopt this bill as the basis for the bill, and also to take into account the proposals made by the national deputy Karmazin, Kiril Kulikov, regarding pharmacies, their networks, the quality of the work, and perhaps to think to us, honourable colleagues, in preparing for a second reading on the prohibition of drug advertising in the way that this is done. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on Moratorium to raise prices and tariffs for medical supplies and medical supplies. [[Registration number 3426]] Please vote. [[13:30:08]] For 345. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, take your time! Take your time! I know it burns. So let's see: maybe we can give the commission to the committee -- prepare it for a reduced procedure and then it'll be in general. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to prepare the bill for consideration in the second reading on a simplified procedure. Please vote. I am convinced that the Supreme Council and the country should work for the people and then for everyone else. [[13:30:50]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Ordinance on State regulation of consumer prices, which is of vital social importance to the population, is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues, allow me to inform you of a draft decision that is proposed to recommend and entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with implementing article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices, to approve without delay a list of consumer goods that have a significant social significance for the population at which state fixed prices are set. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is also tasked with ensuring that consumer prices are monitored, which are of vital social importance to people, that there is an operational analysis of the price situation in the consumer market, and that appropriate changes are made to the list of goods envisaged in this paragraph. What is behind such a proposal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine? The point is that, in the first half of this year, consumer price index rose by 15.5 percent compared to December last year, in January-June this year, prices increased by 23.4 percent, with non-alcoholic beverages accounting for 83 percent of the total increase in consumer price index. During the past six months, meat, meat products, more than 33 percent, fruit, 42.5 percent, especially vegetables, have been particularly expensive. In the middle of the year, prices of rice, pork, fat, apples, and so forth have increased. At the same time, we're looking at this picture, and we're saying that 12.2 percent of the employees get paid below the living minimum for the working person. And there's another indicator that we should probably take into account. The average monthly salary for January-August 2008 was 1 thousand 755, and in 2009 it was 1 thousand 849. And if you look at the rate of growth or decrease in real wages as a percentage up to the corresponding period of the previous year, in 2009, it accounted for less than 90 percent against the corresponding period of 2008. So that's the whole reason for this proposal for a draft regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for discussion. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Yuri Carmazin. Adam Martinyuk. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Well, they're not recorded – so they're all in favor. Dear colleagues who have registered. Dear colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u165	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear national MPs, the bill is extremely simple, it consists of only a few sentences. And this is about the Cabinet of Minnie's decision to entrust the government with an effective public price policy in the development of article 9 of the Law on Prices and Prices, to approve the list of consumer goods that are of significant social importance to the population at which government fixed prices are set. Let's see if this law, or whether this will be enough to achieve the goal that we want to achieve. Obviously, we need to see well that there are producers of products and then there are people who do the bumpers, sell them, resell them, and so on. We had with you and we set up, remember, the maximum place in this room. The size of the bumper from the original price. What? What's wrong with the law? He was dedicated, if you remember. But it was written more thoroughly than this decree, honorable Vladimir Mikhailovich. So we'd have to borrow from the law that we passed, we'd talk about it, and so on, and where we were limiting the exact size of those trade premiums that could be as much as possible. And then we untied the government. We now rely on the government to approve the list. Well. Confirmed, then what? Well, they monitor it, and then what? And then the reaction will be to block those who drive, those who serve and so on. We're not tracking this chain again, and we're not going to be able to influence it. So in my opinion, this decision needs to be finalized. I'm in favour of accepting it, but it needs to be thoroughly refined and maybe changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u166	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue the presentation of the previous speaker and discussion. Strangely enough, if the ruling, the decision, the draft law and the ruling of the same author Vladimir Mihajlovich, a colleague in the previous ruling, was about a moratorium on these, and this, the decree that we are considering, is about to develop these regulations and bills. Because in order to establish a moratorium, it is proposed to identify the most important products and products for which a moratorium is needed. Well, that's a weird logic. In previous drafts, which we have considered, which unfortunately have not received one, two or three votes and have not been supported, the colleague said that we cannot accept. It says here you can and should accept. I mean, it doesn't make sense. And the logic is that, in fact, it had to be accepted, and it needed to be accepted. At least let us accept this, if we have failed and failed to establish a moratorium, let us at least give the government the commission to establish a list of vitals for man to live on this earth and function. This is one moment. And secondly, what Comrade Carmazin mentioned about the bill, which unfortunately was committed by the President, no one forbids us to go back to him and reconsider this bill, which we've really set up, if I'm not mistaken, 15 percent of the allowance and no more. Temporaryly, because it is clear that someone who either buys or buys or resellers is to set what he wants and the prices he sees from the ceiling. So, honourable colleagues, if, once again, if we lack the strength and courage to establish a moratorium in previous price bills, let us take this decision, which will give us the commission to monitor the prices entrusted to make this list. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u168	Yes, Vladimir Bondarenko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u169	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, you can vote for any project, including this one, because there will be no consequences of its approval. Let's ask ourselves if this bill, for example, will contribute to the development of barter operations, where no prices will be discussed at all, mines contracts when it's not about money at all. And many others will be found in the trade. At the same time, we have trade -- one that goes to big supermarkets, there's street trade, there's market trade, and there's a lot more. I'd, I'd say more in this room, contribute to what the government is doing today. For example, the purchase of dairy for the village’s milk processing conditions would be cheaper. The creation of an electorate system, because we can only hide up to 30 million tons of grains, not all that we produce. That's what we need to talk about here. And you're blocking it, and, excuse me, you're designing a system to make everything a gift. And when the farmer looks at it, he's the one who's grown the product. Why do you limit it to the cost of producing it? And this is a very serious contradiction, for example, between the one who manufactures and the one who buys. So let's not rush. You can accept in the first reading, it won't matter. So please vote who wants to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u170	Thank you. Mikhailo Papiev, please, one minute. Then there's Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u171	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! This draft decision must be taken as a basis. And as our colleagues from other factions have said, let us remember who has the memory, the history. We had already voted in 2008 to draft Law 2292, as I recall, Sigal and Tkachenko were the authors of the bill, where the list of socially significant food products was clearly and clearly defined. In addition, the limits of the commercial allowance as well as the mechanisms of legal regulation and the sanctioning mechanisms were defined: what to do with those who do not comply with the law. And also, given the fact that you know that we have very smart entrepreneurs like that, it also settled the issue with profiled companies. It is therefore necessary to adopt this draft decision, to vote for it. We need to keep the prices down today. And work on the second reading and fill it with real meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u172	Yuri Karmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm glad my colleagues quoted me. But I wish I didn't twist what I said, the meaning of what I said. First of all, we are now considering a regulation, not a law, and we need to regulate things that our colleague Papiev has just said, we need to talk about, we need to adopt a law where we can actually predict both responsibility and the limits of the trade bonus. We accepted it, the whole Parliament accepted it, we couldn't do anything about it. But now that the work is done, I think we will accept it. In this way, if we accept it, it'll give virtually nothing. So do the first reading of this decision, automatically pick up the things that were said to be done, only in that case. With regard to what was said about the moratorium, it is simply pure populism, nothing more, not even appraised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Finished the discussion of the draft decision. Let me stress just one thing if we, as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are to make decisions and fail to ensure that they are implemented, the price is then paid to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once we ask and make proper assessments, then the Supreme Council will respect, just as they will respect the people. I put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on State regulation of consumer prices of goods of fundamental social importance to the people. Registration number 5094. Please vote. Based on the base. [[13:43:23]] For 311 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! A draft ruling is now being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues! And we've taken it as a base, and then there'll be proposals, so then the committee will count. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u175	Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I see no doubt that it can be accepted as a whole, but if there is a objection, then let us vote in favour of shortening the deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u176	I propose to the vote that the committee consider the draft regulation and prepare for the second reading. [[by abbreviated procedure]] Registration number 5094. Please vote. [[13:44:15]] For 233 Decision taken. A draft regulation on non-derogation of work rights and payment of work in the context of a financial and economic crisis is under review.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u177	Dear colleagues! The draft Decision proposes to determine the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-admission of citizens' rights to work and the payment of work in the context of a financial and economic crisis. In particular, by stopping production, reducing the number of employees, reducing wages for such workers, and forcing them to pay their holidays without saving their wages. The Cabinet of Ministers and the State Property Fund, local government authorities are invited to use such rights for managers of private enterprises, including before the termination of contracts for the purchase and sale of such enterprises, and to return them to state or municipal property. It is recommended that the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine ensure systematic supervision of the rights, labour rights of citizens and, if they are violated, take appropriate measures. The reason why we need to ask this question, you know, honourable colleagues, that the unemployment rate at the age of 15 to 70 is today 9.1 per cent, when for the corresponding period of last year, that's the first half of 2008, it was only 6.2 per cent, and if you take a working age, it's 10.3 per cent. Today, according to statistics on September 1, 2009, a total of 1 billion 619 million in debt from salary payments. At the same time, it should be noted that by September 25, or in the short term, it was reduced by 11.8 percent in 24 days by the government’s efforts. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the amount of wages owed to economically inactive enterprises amounts to 68.6 million, and to the bankrupt companies 442.3 million when economically active businesses in Ukraine are economically active! -- it's 1 billion 109 million, it's those companies that are alive and working. Among them, the share of state-owned enterprises has a debt of 166 million, municipal property, economically active enterprises, and a share of the debt is 117 million. And as for non-state ownership, and these are economically active enterprises, the debt here is 824 million. The conclusion is clear that it is necessary to pay people’s wages and to feel socially responsible for people, especially in difficult circumstances. Thank you. Mr. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! In this decree, made by Vladimir Litwin, two fundamental questions. The first question is to avoid violations of the constitutional right to work. In fact, today we know that part - time work, free vacations, for example, are made by people who apply and go on vacations of their own. And so if you look at what unemployment is today, it's not about 9 percent anymore, it's about 11 percent. And here we have to do everything legislatively to make everything okay. Moreover, I want to say that this position will be fully supported by our political power. Although it is often argued that the fact that the factions of the Party of Regions are unemployed is commonplace. That's where it's more or less normal. The unemployed are most likely to be employed in private small businesses and in forms of state property. The second proposal is to protect working conditions. In fact, today I want to say that this proposal is going to complement what we voted today when we voted for a new minimum of living today, for a minimum wage -- higher. So that's exactly what the Party of Regions insisted on all the time. We need to look at the minimum wage, raise the minimum wage to the minimum wage. And so, of course, we will support this proposal. But we think that in order to protect a person's work, to protect a person's work, we need to make sure that Vladimir Mikhajlovich doesn't get paid in envelopes, to make sure that the state enterprises where 50 percent of the debt on wages today are okay. Because when you argue, private businesses don't get paid, nothing like that, most of the debt where they work in state-owned businesses. And of course, we need to review the rise in the total wage level. When the poverty line is 772 today, and we're in that decision that we've taken as a basis, we're offering 660 dollars, we're rejecting a man who's working for another 100 dollars outside of poverty. Well, at least we have to go beyond poverty. That's why we're going to support your proposals. We think it's a first step, but we need to look at the whole concept of social protection in working conditions. The faction of the Party of the Regions will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, this is where we left off because Vladimir Stanislavovich Maruschenko came to me, saying he had to report from the committee, and along with that, Alexander Mikolayovich said he would report from the committee. So I'm sorry, colleagues, and Vladimir Stanislavovich, if you have anything, let's do it. I'm sorry we did that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, September 23, 2009, the Committee on Social Policy and Work reviewed the draft decree. The Committee is of the view that it is appropriate to note that labour market relations and the mechanism for monitoring the observance of the labour rights of citizens and legislation and the responsibility for violating those rights are regulated by valid legislation. In particular, the actions provided for in paragraph 1 of the draft regulation, depending on their nature, provide for disciplinary, material, administrative and criminal liability; article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property already provides for a requirement for the termination of contracts for sale and the return of these objects to state or municipal property. Thus, the implementation of the provisions of the draft regulation will not entail any legal burden. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine believes that the draft decree deserves attention, but it has a number of observations. Ukraine's Ministry of Economics has no comment on the proposals. The Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Confederation of Employers of Ukraine, the Federation of Employers of Ukraine proposes not to take the draft decision. The National Tripartite Economic and Social Council of the President of Ukraine from the All-Ukrainian trade unions and their unifications supports the draft decree. The State Property Fund supports the draft regulation, but notes that the provisions set out in the draft are already reflected and regulated by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Code of Labour Laws and other normative instruments. The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine considers that the content of the project is not of a legal nature, and therefore there is no need for the adoption of the act. The Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the offer is to continue our morning session for 15 minutes. Please register with the National Deputies to discuss this bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, then Yuri Anatoly Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, I'm going to allow myself to engage in a controversy with those proposals that came from the committee, not a claim to the committee, because he was quoting letters from those authorities that answered the committee. Of course, unfortunately, the authorities couldn't answer in any other way, because they have the personal responsibility of those responsible for this state of affairs. And so, of course, they did write-offs like that, which they said was not an exercise. If she had not been exerted, they would not have paid attention to her and would not have reacted so negatively. It is a burden, especially in line with the 2004 reform, which states that decisions, including those of the Supreme Council, are required to be implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers and other central executive authorities. I call on you, my dear fellows, to support you, because if we don't have enough power, and more precisely, the desire to support the moratorium on prices, let's at least take this decision to some extent to protect the people who work but don't get paid. Vladimir Mikhailovich gave specific examples of the stage at which, at which level, the state of current debt on wages is based. And I'm going to add another number to this: if you're now owed $1.6 billion in wages, on January 1st of this year, the debt was only 1.1 billion dollars. And everyone seems to be struggling heroically to report that debt is declining. It's not going down, it's gone up by half a billion in eight months. And unfortunately, there's no tendency to shrink. Let us at least give this determination some hope to those who earn but do not receive what he has put into the work. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u183	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Then Vladimir Bondarenko. And after that, Vladimir Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u184	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, as the author of the decree, I address you. For example, I did everything I could to ensure that the Penal Code included the violations involved: the rights of citizens to work and the payment of work. It's the same way they're installed -- it's the first time we've ever had Russians take over other countries -- we've put it in the Administrative Code. So these things are settled. But what is not settled? We don't know the real score. The facts were being distorted here. In fact, with regard to state enterprises and utilities, as the Head of the Supreme Council rightly stated in his report, it is 283 million dollars. That's equal to the seventh part of the total amount of debt. Most of the debt is non-state-owned enterprises. But it doesn't make anyone feel any better. But this money that didn't go into circulation is money that didn't go to people. And we forgot to say here about the National Bank and, in general, the banking system that got people's money to pay and froze right now totally legally, by means of that short law that was passed in this room. So I propose that, Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable fellow MPs, write down here, both to the Attorney-General's Office and to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and to the State Property Fund, and to other supervisory authorities to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the state of compliance with the rights of citizens to work and pay for work by December 1, 2009. That is, to give a term and to show that there is an authority to which they are obliged to inform the entire Ukrainian people. In the 1.5-2 months.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u185	Give me a chance to finish, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u186	Over the course of these 1.5-2 months, it's about to be done to deal with these terrible consequences. So I ask that we mention that there is a monitoring function in Parliament for other authorities. Then this decision, apart from simply purely political, will have a completely different meaning. It must be a warning to bear and will be the confidence of the citizens and stability to bear. But the National Bank's mandate is also to give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u187	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko. Vladimir Landik will be next. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u188	Dear friends, I think each of us understands that this decision, like the previous one, can be implemented depending on whether we want to do it or not the employer who hired the people. Unfortunately, the rules of the Constitution and the laws that have already been written are not in force today, as well as in the part where law enforcement agencies should be in charge of protecting citizens who have not been paid their wages or when employers who have placed their funds in banks, including incomes in previous years, cannot take them out of there today. Therefore, too strict a claim against them would also be wrong. I want to say that today, to a large extent, the issue of pay, release, or non-delivery depends on the moral and ethical state of those enterprises themselves. The religious systems that are in operation today, especially Christianity and Judaism, treat these positions as such: Christianity is considered a mortal sin of not paying off the money it earns, it is indeed one of the doctrines of Christianity. In Judaism, it is quite different: “If a master has offended you, take his good, his silver, and hide.” There may be different recommendations here, but I would recommend today in our country to all the bodies that have a bearing on the functioning of the system and employers and those who work to comply with Ukraine's legislation. And it's already been defined today. And today's decision will add a little bit to that, well, populist authority to the individual who will support it there today. I can also support it, and it won't matter again, because, you know, there's another pay system today that's kind of protecting citizens. An open salary requires such a tax, such a tax, that, well, it's often transferred a little bit into another system, and it's made of the impression that people don't get anything, even though things go their own way in the envelope system. We need to deal with all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u189	Vladimir Landik, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! You know, I've listened to today's drafts, regulations, and I think how good it is for our people to live before the elections. The people will demand elections every day of God’s life. We've got a lot of stuff coming out of our horns. Social benefits, please, salary increases, please. Anything you want. What are you guys gonna do about it? Did anyone think about who would do all this? Who's going to do what you're doing down here? Have you considered the cost of what you've just reduced? And you returned the VAT to pay your salary? You're talking, a billion. And how many billions of VAT has not been returned and wages have not been paid by the Cabinet of Ministers, and VAT has not been returned? Have you ever canceled a gas advance? You said the Firthashi, that's where the Battles put the gas. Stop it! We broke up, we don't have them. The Cabinet of Ministers, under the leadership of Julia Timoshenko, supplies gas. Why don't you take the prepaid three months ahead. Why don't you get rid of the kidnapping, three months ahead of schedule to pay taxes? What's left to pay? You'll cancel it at all! Pay her for nothing. No draft legislation on the protection of the net manufacturer. The country will only borrow money from all over the world and pay its population. For what? We don't know. No law to develop, add, increase production, which will give you the purchase price where you limit it. You can't do that. The country cannot live on debt. It's going to be a simple bankruptcy. And we'll never get out of this pit. And these elections with these bills that. I'm not going to tell whose candidates or no candidates they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u191	Oleg Zarubinski, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u192	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, this discussion has shown that each one has his own truth. Clearly, there is truth in employers. They come out of their own interests. But there are interests of a much larger category of people who are hired workers. And it's clear that you can't decide here at the expense of each other. But let's agree with this perfectly correct phrase, or you can think of it as an axiom that you can't solve the crisis at the expense of the poor. What's going on? All legislative acts, all proposals are more designed to help employers. You know, I think it's not just immoral, it's really immoral, but it's not constructive for the poor to solve the problems of crisis, not the numbers of the rich. For the rich to lose 25 percent, it is already for the poor to die. And so I suggest we consider the interests of tens, millions of people who are hired workers and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Here all thought was correct, including Vladimir Ivanovich, but the matter was, dear colleagues, so who offered this move? And who has therefore blocked the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Let's make other decisions, let's work together, so I urge you, let's make these decisions, and those that the honourable colleagues are talking about are very important questions. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on non-admission of work rights and payment of work in a financial and economic crisis is submitted to the vote for adoption. Registration number 5095. Please vote. Based on the base. [[14:04:57]] For 309 Dear colleagues! In view of the proposals made, including by Valery Konovaluk and others, let us work on it in such a way that there is no hurry. Is there no objection? I'm voting for a reduced procedure and a proposal from Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, draft of Law 5095, namely the commission of the committee to prepare him for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Yeah, it's a draft ruling. [[Registration number 5095]] [[14:05:37]] Thank you. For 255. Dear colleagues! I'm asking your attention, I've been approached by representatives of five factions. The factions of the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Lithium of Timoshenko, the faction of Our Ukraine, the People's Self-Defense, the faction of the Communist Party and the faction of "Litvina Block", and the committee signed a proposal by the People's Deputy of Semenoga requesting the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of the position on the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. And that kind of haste is because first of all, the documents are all prepared and at the same time there is a need to accept. This appeal is made to me by five factions. You have no objection, please note, to the vote on the inclusion of the issue in the agenda and then accepted it. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u194	I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Approval of the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4805]] Please vote. [[14:07:00]] For 337 We've put it into the agenda. If you have no objection, this document has been handed down to everyone, I will put it to a vote on approval of the draft ruling. However, all five factions supported the proposal. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution Project as a decision on the approval of the National Commission for the Protection of the Population of Ukraine. Please vote. [[14:07:43]] For 347 It's been decided. One moment, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, then such an offer, we consulted here, there was a draft decision by a colleague of ours to be accepted, and then we were looking at the budget. There's no objection, Oleg Lazko. Here are, honourable colleagues, draft regulation 4735-1P “On ensuring the implementation of the constitutional procedure for the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the 2009 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine” and some other laws since 21 August 2009. [[No1608]] Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u195	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u196	Listen to what we're talking about, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u197	This is about the bill that you and I adopted in this room to amend the State Budget Act 2009 in part of the financing of the Euro-2012 measures. As we know, the Supreme Council voted in favour of this law. The president vetoed it. The Supreme Council overcame the veto on this law, despite the fact that the Supreme Council overcame the veto – the President has re-set the veto on this law. This is not provided for in the Constitution. In accordance with the Constitution, if, after the President's re-election by the Supreme Council, the President does not sign the law, he is to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. This issue was repeatedly discussed at the Conciliation Councils. And that is why, on the initiative of the budgetary committee, where I am one of the authors of this draft decision, we invite the Head of the Supreme Council to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and to sign this law and publish it. So we don't see any problems before we look at this draft decision and accept it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-06-m0.u198	No, it's not. So the draft decree was handed out a long time ago – three weeks ago. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. What is it? The point is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine overcame the veto into an appropriate law. The president of Ukraine again made a commitment to this law and a certain coalition arose. The Committee on Budgets considered the matter and prepared a draft decision that was handed down and adopted it. It was handed out a few weeks ago, which consists of two points. After the preamble, the decisive part was to recommend to the President of Ukraine, taking into account the veto overcame, to sign this law as required by the Constitution of Ukraine. And he asks the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide within three days. If the President of Ukraine does not take a decision within three days, then part of the second Supreme Council decision on the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to sign the relevant law will enter into force. To get out of this colossal. The draft decree was handed down to you, dear colleagues, at least two weeks ago. That's why it's not. I'll put the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a vote. I am voting on the draft Ordinance to ensure that the constitutional procedure is implemented by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2009 and certain other laws of Ukraine since 21 August 2009 No. 1608-VI. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:12:12]] For 262. It's been decided. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. From 16 hours on, we'll start looking at the budget issues.
