ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear people's deputies, outside of which we had a heated discussion of the socio-economic situation and the actions of the authorities in this non-state situation, we should already be working in the evening session. So we have such a proposal that we have now formally announced that the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed, and I announce that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Now, I ask you to prepare for the registration so that we can begin the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, we're preparing for registration. Dear colleagues, the registration process is underway, please. [[16:03:36]] There were 432 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared open. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the results of the work of the Conciliation Council. You know, honourable colleagues, that we have decided on the procedure for voting draft documents on the outcome of the debate on the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the action of the authorities to deal with the crisis. The decision was that before the vote the deputies would register in writing, the written registration would be issued for the presence and absence of national deputies, and then the cards would be deleted, and then the vote would take place. This led to different interpretations, different perspectives. We've just agreed to this procedure. I'm asking for your attention! I am officially speaking to MPs who, because of objective circumstances and according to official information, are not available: they are on medical treatment or away from work. If these deputies are present, they're going through my message. The cards of these deputies will be blocked, and then we will put two proposals to the vote immediately: the first is for the MPs who are not in the session room to be counted, even if the neighbor helps him to identify; and the first is for the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the decision-making procedure for the question under discussion, which I have voted for, I recall, 398 national deputies, and, unfortunately, today make it appear that nothing like this has happened. That's right. Before that, dear fellows, may I have your attention? Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I want to tell those who are looking for some subtext in everything. I'm doing everything I can to compromise the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And on your question, as I was chosen, I will say, after the decision you have made and voted for by most of the deputies. [[Applause]] And, honourable colleagues, we also agreed that when I call the names of the MPs who are absent for important reasons, every faction representative will say that it has a final list of missing or not final. If he names others, we will also make decisions about them. That's why I'm announcing those MPs who aren't on official information. Faction of the Party of the Regions: Yuhim Zviagiliski. Is there any other reasoning in the party on this? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich. May I have your attention, please? Please calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u2	Efim Leonidovich Zviagilski, unfortunately, is in serious surgery, and we would like to wish such a respectable person a quick recovery in our State. Thank you. Vladimir Nikolaevich, but I would like to express my personal point of view. We have no right at all, and you have no right to block the cards of members of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I'm asking for your attention! Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I want to remind you that on April 8, 2004, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to make changes to the Constitution, cards -- decisions of the Supreme Council, MPs that were not available -- were blocked. We have just reached a similar decision on the Conciliation Council. I don't know what's changed during this time. Here we go, distinguished national MPs, Maruschenko Vladimir Stanislavovich, the faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" present or absent. Please, Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u4	Maruščenko is absent today, he is sick. For other reasons, we are not present at the hall today — Zebrovsky, Polachenko, in the traveling work for other important reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u5	Now, one minute, I'll write it down. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u6	Grabrovsky, Polachenko, Krutz, Kaskiv and Plush Ivan Stepanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u9	It's a faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko. No, I'm reading, you'll tell me if I'm wrong. Mishchenko, Sweden, Hungary, Shevchenko, Sokolov and Calchenko Ivan Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u11	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I'll add another name for Ribakov to calm everyone down. But I want to remind everyone what's going on in the hall. We agreed, and 398 votes were cast in the sitting room, which, as we proceed to the vote, should announce all those who have not registered at the registration desks officially. And we know very well that the bloc, the factions of the Party of Regions did not deliberately register to hide the true picture of the absence of MPs. There's too many missing. But once we've arranged for the Conciliation Council, we forgive that. We forgive this too. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just so you know. You can whistle, it's your right. But, dear colleagues, you don't have much more, and you know it. God judges you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u13	Dear national deputies, we have found out about this. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u14	Simonenko's in the hospital.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u15	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko is in the hospital. Yes, Igor Sharov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u16	Dear Mr. Head! There was information that there was no Ukrainian national MP, Billous Irina. She's in the hall right now. Thus, all the deputies of the Lithuanian "Block of Lithuania" faction are present and ready to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u17	Thank you. So, your honors, please note, I'm about to put this proposal to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's what the Regions have already said. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we are. I want to do it again. We need to make a decision. And please don't disturb me. And we agreed in such a way that the leader of each faction, apart from those people who, well, are officially missing from the Apparatus, will say whether or not there are people. We trust each other. And I'd like everyone to calm down. So now I'm going to put to the vote such a proposal that the cards or voices of people who are missing and who have been reported by the factions' leaders are not taken into account by the outcome of the decision-making process. At the same time, in order for us to trust each other, I will put to the vote abrogate the decision of the Supreme Council on the decision-making procedure resulting from the consideration of the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the action of the authorities to deal with the crisis. Did I make my position clear? So I would like to ask your attention, honourable national deputies, to put to the vote the proposal that, as a result of the decision-making process, the issues that will be taken into account as a result of the discussion of the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities in dealing with the crisis will not be taken into account or taken into account by the votes of the national MPs who are not present, but their cards are present in the hall. National deputies of Ukraine: Maruschenko, Žebrovsky, Polachenko, Kruc, Kaskiv, Plush, Rybakov, Simonenko and Yuhim Zviagilski. [[B in m in s a l in]] Click to add and Yes, calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal that when deciding on the outcome of the debate on the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities to deal with the crisis, the votes of the missing national MPs should not be taken into account. I'm calling the list again. People's deputies: Maruschenko, Žebrovsky, Polachenko, Kruc, Kaskov, Plush - "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", People's Deputy Ribakov, People's Deputies Mishchenko, Sweden, Unguran, Shevchenko, Sokolov, Calchenko - faction of the Yulia Party Timoshenko, National Deputy of Ukraine Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko - faction of the Ukrainian Company, and National Deputy of Ukraine Yuchim Zvjagilski - faction of the Party of the Regions, as well as the cancellation of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the decision-making procedure on the outcome of the debate on the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities to deal with the crisis. Please vote. [[16:14:05]] For – 381 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 173, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 148, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 41, Communist faction – 0, "Litvina Block" – 19. So, honourable colleagues, we have thus overturned our previous decision on the decision-making procedure for dealing with the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities to deal with the crisis. The decision was also made that the votes of the national deputies, if they were worked out, whose names were published, I read out again, would not be taken into account as a result of the consideration of draft rulings on this issue, namely: Maruschenko, Žebrovsky, Polachenko, Kruc, Kaskov, Plush, Rybakov, Simonenko, Zviagilski, Mishchenko, Sweden, Ungurian, Shevchenko, Sokolov and Calchenko. I'd ask my respectable colleagues to remove these cards so that we can demonstrate tolerance in our relations. Now, dear fellows, may I have your attention? A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will be put to the vote. [[Registration No. 3591]] Is it clear to everyone what the question will be? I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, what? May I have your attention, please? Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Please calm down, please, calm down! Please! Please calm down! Dear National Deputies! Please! Dear colleagues! We have decided that faction leaders will tell us who is missing and who is present, we trust all our colleagues. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[Registration No. 3591]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:17:06]] For 203 Please calm down. For 203. The factions, please. Region Party 172, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 1, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense – 10, Communist factions – 20, Lithuanian Block – 0. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! Dear colleagues, another suggestion for us to finish. Dear colleagues, you have a draft of Decree 4023, and I've made it public. I would very much like to understand your attitude, but as a result of our consideration of the matter, we will make a decision that has demonstrated that the Supreme Council determines at least certain milestones. So I ask my honourable colleagues to prepare themselves for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, it's about admitting that we're still not in a coordinated and timely way to work out an urgent plan of action. You have this document, it's apolitical. May I put it to a vote? I am voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the socio-economic situation in Ukraine and the actions of the authorities to overcome the crisis, registration number 4023, please support. [[16:19:08]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Question completed. Dear colleagues, we continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u18	Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I, as a participant in negotiations and agreements, just as a dot, wanted to place and address the leaders of factions that we truly respect, our team. So, for journalists, I want to say that after we agreed, we voted in favour of the government's resignation, and we voted in favour of Zviagilski, Rybakov and Plush. And I asked, my friends, if we agree on our faction, knowing that there are really about 20 people from the Party of Regions who don't have those present, then let's stand by the basic public arrangements, and our colleagues from the One Center, and our colleagues from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u19	Alexander Efraemov, head of the Regulatory Committee Please. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to have to consider the question of judges, and before that, I would like to confirm the order of the day session, because all the bills are included.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u20	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Nikolai Vladimirovich, we agreed that those cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u21	Please! He'll set the time first. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, we have agreed with you on the cards that are in the nests, including Efim Leonidovich Zviagilski, they will simply be disregarded, but we have not agreed to take them out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all of you that we have generally endured our agreements, the details are appropriate, but this is a technical issue. Dear colleagues, before we go to the question of the election of judges, I would like your attention to the fact that we've been working on the order of the day session. Well, I'm asking you not to run, you've taken into account practically all the proposals that the MPs made, including those that came before yesterday before 8:00. Let's establish the agenda so that we can have the committees working on a plan. Dear colleagues, relax, please. All the bills that were proposed were taken into account without any exceptions. May I have your attention, please? I am voting for the approval of the order of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Registration number 3694. Please vote. [[16:22:17]] For 210 The decision is not taken. Well, it's pretty obvious that your colleagues, these are the materials that each committee has given, which is sitting on the left, on the right, at the center and anywhere. Why can't we confirm our work?Oh, my God! Why, then, do the committees make proposals and then no votes for them? I can't understand the theater's absurdity of this. The issue of the election and the release of the courts is under review. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, present! At its meetings on January 14 and February 4, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, to elect judges on an indefinite basis and to elect judges previously elected on an indefinite basis. You are well aware of this procedure. The judges are on the balcony and in the guest bed. Draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 4020. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: Kharkiv's Court of Appeal, Ilyin Oleg Volodymyrovich; the local Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Romanenka Volodymyr Viktorovich; the local Nicopolian City Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Klimenko Irina Vechaslavna; the local Lenin district court of Dnipropetrovska Kalinicka Hennady Pavlovich; the local Voroshilov District Court of Donetsk Převerzevo Larissa Ivanovna; the local Pustomitov district court of the district of Lviv district of Kuksu Dmitr Anatoliyovich; the local Primorski District Court of Odessa, Ivanov Viktor Vasilovich; the local Kremenack district court of the Ternopil district of Mochal Valentina Mikolayevna;
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u25	One minute, one minute. As for the Cremen, you have a warning, don't you? Peanut? Let's make a good point. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u26	The local Highpole District Court of the Hersonian Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u27	Let's make a note, yeah. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u28	the local District Court of the Czernovetsk District of Breslav, Alexander Grigorovich; The local Solomonian District Court of Kyiv Kiyun Ludmila Ivanovna; the local court of the Dnipropetrov region of Lipinsky Alexander Viktorovich; the local courts of the Zitomir district of Terleck-Bayduk Nel Jaroslavovna; the local court of the Kyiv district of Sukhov Valeri Grigorovitch; the local court of the Kharkiv district of Krestjaninova, Alexia Alexandrovich; the local court of the Chernigiv district of Mikhailuk Sergey Ivanovich; the local court of commerce of Kyiv Palija Valentina Valeriyovich. Please support these candidatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u29	Dear national deputies, there is such an offer. Remove the names of the Mochalina Valentina Mikolayovna, Drigval Valery Mikolayovich, as well as the name Kision Ludmilda Ivanovna. [[This is the Silicon District Court of Ternopil County.]] [[This is the local Highpole District Court of Herson County.]] [[This is the local Thessaloniki District Court of Kiev]] And for all the other candidates to vote. What? There are warnings from the National Deputies, and now the National Deputies about certain candidates that I have called are making warnings. If necessary, we will listen to the judges, their motivation, and then we will make personal decisions. It's a established practice. So once again, the honourable colleagues are voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges, registration number 4020, with the deletion of the surnames: Mochalet Valentina Mikolayovna, Drigval Valeriy Mikolayovich and Kision Ludmila Ivanovna. Please vote. [[16:27:42]] For 354 Decision taken. Now the local Kremenecki District Court of Ternopil district, Mochaly Valentina Mikolayevna. I'm asking Valentina Mikolayevna to come up to the microphone and turn on the microphone, please, Wooden Woman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u30	Dear Sergey Vasilovich, I have addressed you with the MP's address for this judge. As I learned, on August 2, 2006, under the direction of the judge, the court ruled against the application of King Andrew Petrovich, and it was recognized that he had lost his right to use the apartment. The king is a cripple of childhood, needs foreign care. By the ruling of the Court of Appeal of Volin County, an illegal and unfounded decision by Judge Mochaleski in this case was overturned. As a result, there are also a number of comments from the Kremenacka District Council. As a result, please withdraw from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u31	This is Valentina Mikolayevna, Cremenac District Court. Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we echo the decision of the Justice Committee and the decision of the judge, unless it changes my memory, I think, was unanimous. If there's any notice, let's do it, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u32	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u33	And we will return to that candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, is there a need to listen to the judge? Is it? Oh, no? Please, so we can then put the committee to a vote? Or, dear colleagues, will we postpone consideration of the appointment of a judge? Do we have to vote? Dear colleagues, there is a common position. I'm asking you, it's the fate of the people. Let's calm down. Put down and ask the committee to reexamine the information that has just spoken. Let's put it down. Now Drigval Valeriy Mikolaiovich. Who had the warnings? Vladimir Stretovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u35	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union. Sadly, yesterday, in connection with the committee’s parallel meeting, I was unable to come to the Justice Committee, even though I had an invitation. Judge Drigval Valeriy Mikolaiovich in 6th year, the events date back to that time, reviewed the case of the solicitors in the city of Brovary, on the property dispute, and approved the decision that he prohibited any legal action. The appellate body canceled all these decisions, resulting in no legal force, but it contributed to the raiding of the enterprise. As this phenomenon is common in Ukraine, I believe that Judge Drigval cannot be a representative of the judicial corps. Please put to the vote and do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u36	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u37	The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Valeria Nikolaevich Drygal should be elected on an uninterrupted basis. Maybe he'll take it off or something. Well, let's vote. Speaks to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u38	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and Sergey Vasilovich! I took the floor in connection with my representation of the Hersonian region. I realize that someone can understand these things and know the people of Hersonian who live better in Kiev than we do in representing the Hersonian region. But please, don't put a cross on a person, let's postpone the discussion, let's do an extra one. You haven't studied the materials that our colleague just sounded. Vladimir Mikhailovich, and please, let's put it to the next time and put it to the vote next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for both the committee and the national deputies to postpone consideration of the issue of Dereguval Valeri Mikolaiovich. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u41	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u42	Then let us put the matter to rest. Valerius Bon dik, faction of the Party of Regions, please, about Kizuk Ludmila Ivanovna, you have a warning, right? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, I've always, you know, we're speaking on the committee, we have an agreement on the fate of a particular judge, a particular person. But you know, if it wasn't for the trouble of some political forces, or factions, that puzzled me, then I got a careful look at the paperwork. Well, it can't be that while I'm in Dubai, I'm asking you to tell me that I have information that the judge has left. See, 12.10 is a trip to Dubai. And 12.10. It accepts approval. This acquittal arrested the property of an enterprise. That is, the slowing down of farming, so called Ryder's. Now, by the way, there is the practice of the Supreme Court, which is now such cases, including those of the Supreme Court. So I proposed to the committee yesterday, but I agreed with most of my colleagues, so let's postpone this candidature so as not to spoil her fate as a judge, and let's study these circumstances carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u44	What is the position of the committee, Sergey Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u45	Vladimir Mihajlovich, let us indeed re-examine all the circumstances that our colleague of the Bondik People's Deputies has, and at the next meeting, let us return to the consideration of this candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u46	No warning? Then the three candidatures are returned for review on the committee: Mochaly Valentina Mikolayevna, Drigval Valeriy Mikolayovich and Kision Ludmila Ivanovna Please proceed with your ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u47	The committee recommends that judges previously elected be selected on an open-ended basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u48	One minute, one minute. Oleg Lazko, please. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u49	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Volodymyr Mihailovich, distinguished colleagues, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Court, Vasil Vasilovich! I'm talking to you. So we're with you every week, we're voting for judges every Thursday, and what are we all giving these people 400 votes for? I want to give you a specific fact: the case before the Supreme Court. The College of Judges of the Court in Civil Matters, under the chairmanship of the Court of Justice, refused to grant the lawsuit to almost 300 villagers from the village of Sokirenzi in the region of Srebrenica, who asked the court to protect their rights. They made a contract with the land rental company, one percent of the value of the pie is not paid to peasants at all, and they have not paid for years. And the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that there was no basis for breaking the treaty. And peasants are the batteries of a private entrepreneur who takes the land, earns the money, and doesn't pay the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, that's not the point. Please, Sergey Vasilovich. Order 4021.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee recommends the selection of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, we are now appointing judges, not discussing them. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u53	elected on an open-ended basis, as judges: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Pavlovsk Irina Hennadian; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Struk Ivan Fedorovich; the Lviv Court of Appeal; the Skripchuk Oksan Stepanovna; the Kharkiv Court of Appeal by Tereshchenko Oksan Ivanovna; and the local court of business of the Mikolai district of Davchenko Tetjan Mikolayevna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any warnings about candidates? Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u55	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me finish this subject after all. We're discussing this issue because you and I are choosing judges who then deal with cases and turn peasants into barracks, owners of businesses take property out of their hands. I am addressing the Supreme Court. Vasil Vasilovich, tell us that Judge Gnatenko, who is the head of the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Jaroshenko, is allowing himself in the twenty-first century to make a peasant a batrak. What is this Supreme Court? And why do we vote for these judges? So I'm offering, and I'm asking you to review this case and give people the opportunity to get their money for their land. Today, as a result of the activities of the Supreme Court, they are deprived of such opportunities. She has nothing to feed, they have nothing to buy, and you and I choose judges here for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u56	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the Honorable Head of the Supreme Court! Then I ask that the response be to the appropriate request of the national MP. Now, about the candidates that are offered. No warning? This is the draft of Decree 4021. I'm voting for the election of judges. Draft regulation number 4021. Please vote. [[16:38:08]] For 369 Decision taken. Now the next decision that we have7
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u57	3612.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u58	What's the verdict? I don't have it, 3612. What are you talking about? Well, please report. I don't have it, this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u59	Honourable National Deputies, Honorary Fellows, at the meeting of the Committee on 14 January 2009, the draft decision of the Committee on the granting of a recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich to serve as Judge of the Isiaslav District Court of the Hmeljna Region did not receive uninterrupted support from the majority of the votes present at the meeting of members of the Committee: 10 – “for”, 10 – “against”. So the question of choosing Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich can be resolved in plenary session by voting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that during the plenary session of 15 January 2009, Shevchuk was absent from the disease, and this issue of election was postponed. And now we're taking this one to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u60	Sergey Vasilovich, please give me this document. There is a question, please, Lukashuk, National Deputy Lukashuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by the council of judges. I am not personally acquainted with Shevchuk and am not pursuing any corporate or useful interests. This man is not worthy to be a judge. He even came to the committee meeting, drunk. I'm asking you to hold off. I'll give you all that. I have it, I ask you once again to put this question aside for a detailed study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the offer is, now the judge is here. Let's listen to him. And we need the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make an informed decision. The committee has not identified itself and invites the Supreme Council to take a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich, if there is. Where? To the microphone, please. Please, National Deputy Lukashuk, what questions do you have before? Turn on the microphone. Please, what claim do you have to a judge? There he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u63	I'm asking you to make a decision to remind me that the committee has not made a decision. I was there, the first vote was 10 to 10, and the other two were 7 to 13 against. And, as for the claims, there is the decision of the disciplinary commission of the Court of Žitomir. The U.S. Committee is negative about this judge. Almost every case is dealt with with with by a friend. I have a petition from the council of the judges of the Hmelni district that this judge is not worthy to be. I reiterate that I do not express my personal thoughts or corporate ones. We don't know this judge, but he's not worthy to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u64	Thank you. I'm going to ask the judge very briefly, and then the head of the judges' council to tell them if there's a complaint or if there's a claim against Vladimir Ivanovich Shevchuk. Please, Vladimir Ivanovich, briefly, what are the claims that you can answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u65	Well, the decision was made by the Zitomir commission to bring me a catch-up. It was annulled by the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine as illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u66	Please, head. The High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u67	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies! Indeed, Judge Shevchuk was drawn to disciplinary responsibility by a qualified commission of judges, and this decision was challenged by the High Council of Justice. We have determined that without any test, such as it should be by law, the judge has been called to account. We overturned the decision of a qualified commission and closed the disciplinary process. There is no reason to bring this judge to justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u68	Oleg Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! Look, let's just look at the point where we can get our emotions out, because we had an emotional committee about this judge. If we do not hear any significant comments under the law today, let us not stop at that judge. I wanted to ask you a question: you might have some personal problems there because you're being so emotional about it right now. Or do you have some kind of conflict in the room that you don't know? If this is a personal conflict, the session room has nothing to do with it. If there is no comment in the High Council of Justice, let us vote and move on to other judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u70	Please, there was a question for you. Dear colleagues, please, let's calm down. Well, nothing to say here, they scared the man. Any other questions? Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide whether to elect Judge Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich or not. And there was a second suggestion to return to the committee. In the order in which these proposals come, I will put them to the vote. Given the Supreme Council's opinion that there are no heathens, I take it there is not. I am voting on the draft Decree No 3612 “On the election of the judge”, namely, to elect Shevchuk Vladimir Ivanovich as judge of the local Isiaslav District Court of the Hmeljna Region on an untimely basis. Please vote. [[16:45:43]] For – 193 The decision is not taken. Then there's a second offer. I ask the committee to consider this subject in an substantive manner, as you traditionally do, representatives of the High Council of Justice to be an objective, unbiased recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, dear colleagues, let us join together in welcoming the judges whom we have chosen on an untimely basis today, and we wish them to be on the watch for the law and be in good health. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine entitled “Consenting to arrest the judge of the local Primorski District Court of Odessa Gandhi N.V.” is being announced for consideration. [[Taken under guard]] Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u71	The distinguished colleagues, at the meeting of the Justice Committee yesterday, considered the submission of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, supported and submitted by the Acting President of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the approval of the arrest, the detention of Judge of the Primorski District Court of Odessa Gandhi Natalia Viktorovna. As a result of the review, the members of the Committee unanimously agreed that the submission of the Office of the Attorney-General met the requirements of part one of article 220 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, i.e. it was lawful and justified and its justification was sufficient to indicate the specific facts and legal evidence obtained and could be supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the details of the case, Alexander Ivanovich Medvedjko, who is present here, is the Attorney General of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u72	Yes, dear fellows! Sergey Vasilovich, please, your proposal on what we need to do next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u73	Further information is provided by the Attorney-General of Ukraine specifically for this judge under the Rules on 220th Article of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We read out the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u74	Alexander Ivanovich, please! Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko Attorney General of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On 8 November 2005, Judge Gandhi of the Supreme District Court of Odessa, on the abuse of official authority and office and the commission of official falsification, was acquitted of a criminal case on the grounds of the crime provided for in part two of article 364 and part two of article 366 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Further decrees of 30 December 2005, 17 July and 23 August 2006, 11 May and 31 August 2007 and 6 May 2008 concerning Hansia. The prosecutions of the U.S. Attorney General's Office have been further involved in criminal cases based on other facts of the commission of crimes, this aid in the possession of property through fraud, abuse, official falsification and the use of false documents. Ganzius committed these crimes under the following circumstances. As the deputy head of the Primorski District Court of Odessa and the judge were appointed by the court as a service person, in January 2005 Ganzi contributed to Ilchenko’s acquisition of the right to the property of Kiryukhina’s citizen and to the possession of the property by means of a lie. In doing so, Ganziy, along with the Registrar of the Court of Justice, falsified the material of two civil cases in the court of Ilchenko to Kiruchin, for the recognition of treaties as valid and for the recognition of property rights. In particular, she falsified the court’s decision to recognise Ilchenko’s ownership of a residential building and a land plot along the street of Kuprin, 7 in Odessa, and the nonresidential building of an office center on Odessa Street, which had been personally certified and published by Ilchenko. Then, in mid - January 2005, Hansiah forged civilian material on the eviction of Kiruchin from the listed property. On February 7, 2005, officials of the State Executive Service Department forced Kyrouchina out of the residence and the tenants of the office center. Using copies of the counterfeit decisions of Ganzi, Ilchenko registered the listed real estate objects in her name and took possession of them, causing Kiruchin material damage to the total amount of 111,000,832 bracelets. Furthermore, in October of that year, Ganzius acquired state funds by means of a lie in the amount of one thousand 284 bracelets, receiving money as a material aid in connection with the temporary loss of incapacity on the basis of its transfer to the Primorski District Court of Odessa for a well - known forged document, a letter of invalidity from October 3 to 9, 2005. In fact, Judge Gandhi was not ill, and along with Judge Reznichenko’s assistant, she was in Turkey for rest. On November 15, that year, on the basis of the evidence gathered, a decree was issued to attract Gandhi as the accused, but it was not possible to bring charges within almost two years because of her aversion from appearance to the pretrial investigation body. In doing so, Ganzi has openly abused the special legal status accorded to her by law, since under the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Judges, a warrant or detention cannot be applied to a judge without the consent of the Supreme Council. Yes, many of the messages about the indictee’s challenge to the prosecution, the interrogation as the accused, and the other necessary investigative actions that led to his residence and work have never appeared, motivated by such conduct, by his unwillingness to communicate with the investigator. By presidential decree of 31.10.2007, Gandhi was removed from office as deputy head of the Primorski District Court of Odessa. On May 7, 2008, she was presented with the final charge of all the established facts of the crimes committed and selected to the extent of the precautionary means of not leaving. He refused to accept his guilt in the charges made and to give evidence and to answer the investigator’s question. Nevertheless, Ganzi's guilt in the commission of the above-mentioned crimes has been proven and is now confirmed by the evidence gathered on the case, such as the testimony of the victim of Kiruchin, the interrogations of witnesses, the findings of forensic, forensic and technical, start-up experts, the search reports and the evidence of documents, evidence and other materials removed in the course of the investigation, including the Supreme Court's rulings of 27 September 2006 in the case of the defendant-general of Ukraine and the victim of Kiruchina to the decision of the Primorski District Court of Odessa, in which it finds that contracts have been purchased and sold, to which Judge Gandhi refers in his judgements and court reports on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u76	Alexander Ivanovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u77	At the present time, it is not possible to investigate the criminal case against Ganzia, but it is impossible to make a procedural decision because the accused Hansius does not appear to be the investigator. Therefore, taking into account all these circumstances, and considering that Gandhi had ignored nearly 500 calls to the investigator. These are several volumes of the criminal case. And the protective protection applied to the non-refoulement subscription does not allow him to secure his appearance until the investigator completes the pretrial investigation. It is needed to replace it with a more stringent precautionary measure of taking into custody. On the basis of what has been said, taking into account the serious crimes committed in which Gandhi is accused and under which the law provides for penalties in the form of deprivation of liberty, with a view to preventing and trying to escape the investigation and the trial in accordance with article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 13 of the Law on the Status of Judges, articles 218, 221 of the Provisional Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I request that you consider the application and allow the detention and arrest of the deputy head of the Primorski District Court of Odessa and the judge of this Supreme Council of Ukraine to be held in custody on 8 September 1960. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u78	There's a question for the Attorney General. Please sign in. Logan Victor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u79	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, do you know in your application at the outset that you have referred to a criminal case since March 22, 2005 regarding Ilchenko Olga Mikhailovna, and in your application you have more than 100 references to that name. Do you know that the criminal case that you're referring to in the Herson County Court of Appeal has been sent to investigate, and Ilchenko is released from custody right in the courtroom. Is it sufficient that during the period of the hospital, according to your report, Gandhi spent a week abroad on medical examination and only her only fault that she did not tell prosecutors about her pain? And does it raise any suspicion that a member of the High Council of Justice of Kudriavtsev, who is also your deputy attorney-general, has made the release?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u80	Thank you for your attention. Indeed, the criminal case against Ilchenk and Zaashvili was sent to court at its own time. The case was brought before the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region, and on November 26, last year, an order was made to refer the case to further investigation. The reason for the court’s decision is that the court finds it wrong to separate criminal cases, that is, because Hansia himself is absent from the case. We think it's a misjudgment. And that's why we made a cassation application, which is scheduled for the Supreme Court of Ukraine on March 24, this year. I believe that if you agree to arrest and arrest Hansius, we will have completed the trial and refer the case to the court by now. As for the application that you're saying my Deputy Attorney General of the Kudriwats has sent, he's a member of the High Council of Justice and has to address this matter to the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u81	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u82	Reverend Alexander Ivanovich, is it true, or is it not true, to confirm or disprove, that yesterday, when the biographies were removed, it was revealed that Judge Ganziy’s husband was a prosecutor in the same district where she worked as a judge? That's the first question. And the second. I saw yesterday how convincing your investigator was, they showed almost the message when they called her, and she didn't show. And here's my next question. Maybe we don't have to give consent to arrest. Would you have another measure of security that would allow it to come to you? For example, a mortgage or something. Because, you see, in the Soviet school of law, there was this measure of "economy of criminal repression," but it's still a woman to charge, even if she's a failed judge, to charge women with prisons, that's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u83	Thank you. So as for Hansius, her husband, he was indeed a district attorney’s employee, headed the Criminal Investigation Department, and was released for abuse of office. Then a number of trials took place and is now reinstated at work by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. But we have not yet received this decision from the Supreme Court. We'll get, we'll make the right decision. With regard to the selection of a precautionary measure of arrest, I believe that for almost four years, for more than three years there was a pretrial investigation and the fact that more than 500 calls were being sent to the investigator, and that it had appeared for some time for the prosecution and then ceased to appear again, shows that another precaution, we have endured, I say, for almost four years, considering that she is a woman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u84	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u85	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, today you ask that the Supreme Council give its consent to bring another judge to justice. Please tell me, what progress has been made in the search for Judge Igor Zvaric, who has been arrested for some time? Please tell me, Reverend Alexander Ivanovich, is the former governor of the Lion Governor Peter Oliynik, who was transferred and bribed in his office, as evidenced by the prosecution’s material? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u86	Thank you for asking. So this criminal case, it's being investigated, all the circumstances of criminal activity are being determined, both by the Welder and the possible possible commission of other judges' crimes. As for the search for the cook, we sent all the necessary documents to both the Security Service and the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs. But at this time, we don't have any reliable information on the location of the welder, and he's not being held up for that time. With regard to the episode, as you say, the bribe was transferred to the office of the Oliynik, these circumstances also come with us, we find out, and we will soon make a decision regarding the Olympics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u87	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u88	Alexander Ivanovich, I have a development that just asked Oleg Lazko. I remember the last time we met you, you were talking in this high hall about what the materials of the case were really going through, except the cook of a number of other judges of the Lviv Court of Appeal, and you said that it was soon possible that, with such a similar application for arrest and detention, you would go after them. If you can, more specifically, because it can't be that only one cook turned out to be on this case, it's clear that you can't fail to have, in principle, materials on those who gave or handed over bribes, not just on those who received them, and vice versa. It can't be like that. I'm more than convinced that there's a whole series of people on those videos and other evidence, and I'm very hopeful that you'll take the step that the Supreme Council has promised you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u89	Thank you for asking. Once again, I would like to point out that the investigation is being conducted with regard to the Welder and that the circumstances of the possible involvement of all the judges of this court in the commission of crimes are being checked. The appropriate examinations of witnesses are conducted, the expert studies are conducted, and this takes some time. And because as soon as we have enough evidence gathered so that we can declare to society that there is a component of a judge's crime, we will certainly make that decision and turn to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u90	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u91	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I have a question for the respectable Alexander Ivanovich and Vasil Vasilovich Onopenek. On the committee yesterday, this judge, for whom Hansius was giving, asked if he had agreed to arrest her, did not appear to motivate her to do so, but sent a telegram saying that she was sick. Did she show up today or not? And perhaps it came today so that we could ask questions, for I have no interest in how this 500 times did not appear to the investigator? But I have a question, will the fact that in this case the elements of the case sent for investigation have any effect on the general consideration of the matter or not? Because this case is scattered, and part of it is meant to investigate, how will this affect? And have you taken steps to have her present here on the Supreme Council to provide some explanation? I just want to find out from these procedural points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u92	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. According to my report, Judge Hansius is absent from the Supreme Council. As for inviting her to the Supreme Council or to a committee meeting, I don't think it's my job to invite her into this room. This must be decided by the committee of its own time. As for the criminal case, the part of the Ilchenka and Zasavšvili charge is returned to further investigation. As I said before, one of the reasons, according to the court, is that there is no defendant named Gandhi in this case and that is why they have returned to further investigation. Right-wing or not, I think the Supreme Court will decide on this issue, where we have addressed the case. I said that the consideration of this cassation was scheduled for March 24th. But I think if we get your consent today, we're going to end the criminal case by this day.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u93	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u94	Honourable National Deputies, Honorary Colleagues, filed by the Attorney General’s Office regarding Judge Gandhi, joined the Supreme Court in December 2007. On January 17, 2008, the first deputy chief of the Supreme Court, Peter Philippczyk, sent material to the Supreme Council about our support for the filing of the Attorney General’s Office. Note, today, January 2009, more than a year has passed. Angry, but it's been over a year. Thus, the situation changed somewhat. According to our data, Hansius is a very sick man for today, for now. In connection with her illness, she had been unable to report to the Attorney General’s Office for a long time. So I feel that in view of all the circumstances today, decisions must be made. If you asked me today, at this time, if I supported this submission, I'd say I wouldn't support it. But since it is in this room today, you have to decide. I think in the Attorney General's Office, the investigating authorities have sufficient grounds to investigate this case and bring it to trial. And let the court consider essentially all the circumstances surrounding this criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u95	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. We should have given the floor to the judge according to the rules, but since it's not available, we can't do that. I would like to ask the national deputies if all the circumstances have been clarified, can we put them to the vote? No, it is not. Therefore, please sign up for the discussion, in line with part six of article 221, article 6. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not going to get into the finesse. I just want to refer to the Ukrainian national MPs on the third, fourth call. I personally have a sin at my heart when I voted in favour of the surrender to the responsibility of Agafon, who later died of a terrible illness. Let us not take sin upon ourselves; there are methods of drawing it apart; let us deal with it in a judicial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u97	Logan Victor Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u98	I want to inform the people's deputies that Judge Ganzi has not been able to attend both the committee and the Supreme Council meeting, because, apart from what Vasil Vasilovich said was seriously ill, she buried her father a month ago from such an investigation by the Attorney General's Office. And I think that's enough reason not to get that woman to the end right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u99	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u100	Please hand over Sergei Mikolaiovich Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, we've been discussing this for quite some time. It is understandable that man’s destiny is behind this. So let's count the Attorney General's speech, let's count on Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich's speech, and let's make a decision. Our faction listens to Onopenek Vasil Vasilovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u102	Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, well, it's a shame that, in fact, we have a different position in the session room today than on the committee, because the Supreme Court today has expressed such a diametrically opposite position -- the opposition of the Attorney General's Office. And this really raises the question that we might still be sending this decision to the committee for work. And perhaps there will be another sitting for both the Supreme Court and the Attorney General's Office on this matter. But, you know, we've got some samplers on trial today. And I would also like to propose to the Attorney General's Office, the more we have seen in the case of Zvaric, that the Attorney General's Office, including with other law enforcement agencies, can respond effectively today to the unprecedented corruption that unfortunately exists in the judicial system today. And I would suggest that we continue to work with the judges at the same pace, but I would like to note that while there is a Attorney General here, you know, working here, this is how it used to be, and with the Court of the Lions, it's nice to work with you when you're giving us a result, and we're not exchanging political statements through the media about who's going better and who's going worse. I would like to inform the Attorney General that, while he is here, none of the deputies are evading any inquiries into the matter of blocking the Ukrainian Security Service of the administrative courts on what events you know. That is why I would suggest to you today that you engage more actively in matters where the court was forced to walk under the supervision of the armed formations of the Alphas, which unfortunately did not work to liberate our compatriots from the Faina at the time, but to conduct the judges in the cabinets and in the council of the Chambers to make the necessary decisions of the Secretary of the President's Office. So for today, please activate your activity in dealing with the problems that are now in the judicial system. What's more, you can see that we just need to get together at the committee meeting. We have, we speak one language today with the Attorney General's Office and the Supreme Court. And believe me, you will find no better help in the fight against corruption in the judicial system than in this session room. And we are prepared to extend our full hand to assist the Attorney General's Office, the Supreme Court in the fight against those judges who think that building money in the courtroom is the biggest thing they can do today. So we're giving you full support in the session room. This question may need to be returned to the committee for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u104	Filipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u105	Thank you. I would like to point out that once Judge Hansi has been brought to the session hall, without being appreciated by the prosecution. At that time, the question of discharge was being prepared. And I'll remind my colleagues that, along with Judge Skorkom of the Court of Thessaloniki, the Hanse question was removed, on the grounds that it didn't get enough votes. And then there was the commission, if I'm not mistaken about yours, Alexander Volodymyrovich, the committee -- to reconsider that question. And it turns out that in the Hansi court, we still listen to the question, and Judge Skork, who stopped the laws that the Honourable Attorney General removed from office in 2007, is still on the committee, and he's still listening. So I ask you once again to give the commission to the committee. Perhaps Judge Scorch for the second plenary week, which this month will also determine and bring it into the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u106	Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, I've been in the Ganzi business for the past three years. And I have to tell you, the basic thing, on the fax, is a court decision that has people's real estate. Since then, given that he is a judge, it is not possible to conduct an effective investigation. We're here, you know, we're talking about words, like virgins who are. Everyone knows who they really are. What the hell are we doing here? A real person has committed a real crime that must be assessed. And today, we're giving it another chance to take this case back. Because it is not on the agendas, using the status of integrity of the judge, it is impossible to make a criminal case, it falls apart in front of the eyes because the chief accused does not come. 500 tickets in three years have been delivered. What else do we need to explain? A man is bound to do justice, is he always, in criminal matters, to ask if a person is guilty or not guilty? And she certainly knows that it is necessary to participate in this process in order to achieve an objective truth. She refuses to take matters into consideration. And arresting doesn't mean she's going to be a criminal, arrests allow an investigation into the case today. And if we go on like this, all we're talking about here is demagogy. Open and effective demagogy. We say one thing and we do another. And here we have considered the question of depriving her of her judgeship, today we are considering giving the opportunity to finally involve a person to begin testifying so that she can either give up her testimony or testify and participate in this criminal case. If we don't give this opportunity today, it's going to fall apart again, and it's never going anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u108	The discussion is over, please prepare for the vote. I am putting to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to order the arrest of the judge of the local Primorski District Court of Odessa Ganziy Natalija Viktorovna, registration number 4022. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:16:12]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next issue of the agenda: the appointment of out-of-order local elections. Please, Upper Sergey Petrovich on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u109	Honorary Presidium, Honourable Deputies, Honorary Voters, Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meetings on 14 January and 2 February, considered a total of 32 decrees on the appointment of successive elections of individual rural, rural, urban heads in connection with the suspension of their terms of office, registration Nos. 3633, 3633-1 to 3633-13, as well as 4007 and 4007-1 to 4007-17. In general, most of these are former heads of rural councils – 26, rural – 4 and 2 – cities. The cities of Festus in the Kyiv region and the city of Lysichansk Luhansk district. The vast majority of decisions are made on the basis of personal statements made by these heads. That's 27 of those. Two decisions in connection with the death of the heads and three decisions in the appropriate councils. The Governing Body of the Supreme Council, in connection with local authorities, has also reviewed all these documents and believes that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council that the election of the selected rural, rural and urban heads be ordered on an orderly basis. In view of the fact that, according to article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three of article 14, part two and sixth of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law, “On the election of the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local councils and the rural, village, city heads” in the event of a permanent suspension of the powers of the village, village, city head, the elections are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Sunday no later than 70 days before the election day. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the above-mentioned local elections be scheduled for Sunday, May 3, 2009, by making appropriate decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u110	Dear colleagues! Any questions for the reporter? There's a question. Please sign up. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u111	I wanted to ask that we separate the Fastov vote. There, you know, is a special situation. Because my suggestion was that the committee take into account the situation of Fastov and the mass of the illegal decisions of the Fast City Council, so that we can discuss it comprehensively. So today, the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will insist that this issue not be voted on by Fastov and that it be considered separately by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u112	Dear Valery Volodymyrovich! We all vote separately, so it's an obvious procedural thing. Please ask Ivanenko Vladimir Grigorovich. None. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u113	Mr. Sergey! That's my plan. The State budget for this year for the organization of the out-of-order elections of rural, rural, urban, and local councils is to the extent that I have no memory of being betrayed, 15 million dollars, 14 copies. And today's decision to cancel the decision on Ternopolis, I think it's premeditated that the 10 million that she could hypothetically eat would make it impossible to hold a whole series of other elections. But at the same time, if we're assuming that we're going to accept, if you've foreseen on the committee hypothetically, whether there's enough of these costs, and if we don't have to now that the issues are being taken up, obviously about making changes to the budget, increase this article of expenditure. And I don't think we've made enough money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u114	In his time, the committee had proposed that a figure of about 30 million should be added to the budget. Well, unfortunately, it's been a while. If these rulings are voted on and taken into account the rulings we have already voted on, we will propose changes to the budget and increase this amount. It really is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u115	Any more questions? None. Please prepare for the vote. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of successive elections of the Hatznian village head is put to the vote. [[No. 3633]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:22:07]] For 359 Decision Adopted The draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the midterm elections of the Dubenkovsky Rural Head of the Monastery District of Ternopil Region is put to the vote. [[Registration number 3633-1]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:22:40]] For 364 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the appointment of the alternate election of Tarasov village head of the Triotic region of Lugansk Region is put to the vote. [[Registration number 3633-2]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:23:09]] For 358 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the appointment of the elections of the Jarisov Rural Head of the Mogilov-Podil Region of the Winnitsk Region is put to the vote. [[Registration number 3633-3]] [[17:23:36]] For-360 Decision taken. The draft Order on the appointment of the successive elections of the Demeshkow village head of the Galician region of Johno-Frankiv region is put to the vote. [[Registration number 3633-4]] [[17:24:05]] For 361 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the head of Sofia’s village in the Cherkas region, registration number 3633-5, is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:24:32]] For 354 Decision taken. A draft decree on the appointment of the successive elections of the Jukljan village head of the district of Chernigiv County is put to the vote. Registration number 3633-6. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:25:01]] For three hundred Decision taken. A draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the Koinetian Rural Head of the Czerniewets region of Putil Region is put to the vote. Registration number 3633-7. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:25:28]] For 353 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the Cheripashinet village head of the Kalinj district of Winnitsk Region is put to the vote. Registration number 3633-8. Please vote. [[17:25:56]] For 361 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Ploskovian Rural Head of the Dubrovnik region of the Plain region is put to the vote. Registration number 3633-9. Please vote. [[17:26:23]] For 365 Decision taken. It's a draft decree on the appointment of the successive election of the Jarmoline village head of the Jarmoline district of Hmelnicki district, registration number 3633-10. Please vote. [[17:26:53]] For 367 Decision taken. This is the draft Order on the Assignment of Elections of the New York Village Head of the Region of Poltava, registration number 3633-11. Please vote. [[17:27:22]] For 367 Decision taken. It's a draft decree on the appointment of the next election of the High-Paul village head of the High-Paul district of Herson County, registration number 3633-12. Please vote. [[17:27:51]] For 358 Decision taken. It's a draft decree on the appointment of the election of the Fastow city head, registration number 3633-13. Please Identify [[17:28:18]] For-97 The decision is not taken. The draft decreed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the successive elections of the Sidorenkov Rural Head of the Wallkow district of Kharkiv district, registration number 407. Please vote. [[17:28:54]] For 362 Decision taken. A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the winning village head of the Talnivian district of the Cherkas region, registration number 4007-1, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[17:29:24]] For 366 Decision taken. The Order on the Assignment of Elections of the Viknin Rural Head of the Biological Region of the Hmelnicke District, registration number 4007-2, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[17:29:52]] For 362 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Marinichov Rural Head of the region of the Czernovets region, registration number 4007-3, is put to the vote. [[17:30:20.]] For 366 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the appointment of the Malinov elections for the head of the Novoseltsky Region of the Cherniewets region, registration number 4007-4, is put to the vote. [[17:30:46.]] For 363 Decision taken. The draft Decree on the appointment of the successive election of the village head of the district of Zacarpathia, the district of Vynogradiv, registration number 4007-5, is put to the vote. [[17:31:14]] For three hundred Decision taken. The draft Decision on the Assignment of Elections of the Loknistin Rural Head of the Chernigiv region of Men is put to the vote. Registration number 4007-6. [[17:31:43]] For-360 Decision taken. A draft decree on the appointment of the Zaluz village head of the Bilogir district of the Hmelni district is put to the vote. Registration number 4007-7. [[17:32:10]] For 369 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Clepinian Rural Head of the Krasnoggard district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:32:37]] For 365 Decision taken. A draft decree on the appointment of the successive elections of the Ohramiewic village head of the district of Chernigiv County is put to the vote. Registration number 4007-9. [[17:33:06]] For 369 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of Mikilski village head of the Solonian district of Dnipropetrovsk district is put to the vote. Registration number 4007-10. Please vote. [[17:33:37]] For 371 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the Assignment of the Elections of the Shepherd’s Rural Head of the Triotic region of the Luhansk Region is put to the vote. Registration number 4007-11. [[17:34:05]] For 363 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the Hothimir Rural Head of the Tulmatic District of the Ivano-Frankow region is put to the vote. Registration number 4007-12. [[17:34:34]] For 359 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the appointment of the Malinian Rural Head of the District of the Plains Region is put to the vote. Registration number 4007-13. [[17:35:02]] For 366 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the appointment of the successive elections of the head of the village of Ladin in the Chernigiv district of Chernigiv region is put to the vote. Registration number 4007-14. [[17:35:29]] For 365 Decision taken. The draft Decision on the Assignment of the Elections of the City’s Rural Head of the District of Brusiliv of the District of Žitomir is put to the vote. Registration number 4007-15. [[17:35:56]] For 362 Decision taken. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the successive elections of the Jarov village head of the Krasnolyman region of the Donetsk region is being put to the vote. Registration number 4007-16. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:36:25]] For 367 Decision taken. It's a vote-off of the Lysican City Head of Lysicánsk Lugansk Region, registration number 4007-17. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:36:58]] For 324 Decision taken. The question of the appointment of out-of-court local elections has been completed. Dear colleagues, we now return to the consideration of the issues highlighted in today’s session from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u116	Alexander Volodymyrovich, if I may, dear colleagues, I would like to suggest, we have given so much attention to politics today, perhaps my colleagues would support me so that we can work on the short-term and more drafts today. If there is no objection, Alexander Volodymyrovich should be put to the vote by a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u117	Is there any objection that the questions that will be discussed in the session room today will be considered in a reduced procedure? Is there no objection? I'm voting on the proposal that we address all the issues of this evening's plenary session that remain under a reduced procedure. [[17:38:19]] For 219 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on smuggling and customs violations, registration number 3359, is being announced for consideration. Reportedly, the First Deputy Head of State Customs, Pikovsky Igor Aleksandrovich. Please. Short - term procedure involves two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u118	. As of 12 November 2008, No112671 had been introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the fight against smuggling and the violation of customs rules was introduced. The bill is designed to improve Ukrainian legislation in the field of customs. The aim of the project is to expand customs powers in the area of anti-trafficking, customs violations and corruption among Ukrainian customs officials. The goal is to partially decriminalize article 201 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Grants the customs authorities the right to carry out operational and search activities, the right to conduct pre-trial investigations into smuggling cases, the inclusion of customs authorities in the number of authorities empowered to fight corruption, and the right of expert departments of customs authorities to perform judicial and expert activities. The partial decriminalization of article 201 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, that is, the transfer of so-called commercial smuggling from the criminal crime category to the category of administrative offences, will result in criminal liability being carried out only by illegal movement through the customs border of Ukraine of objects removed from free circulation. The movement of goods through the customs border of Ukraine outside customs control or by concealing it from customs control will be classified as a violation of customs rules, which will simplify the procedure for the confiscation of such goods in the income of the State. Allowing the customs authorities the right to conduct themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u119	Thank you. Please have a seat. Thank you. The committee should report to Vasil Mikolaiovich Gretzak, who is not in the hall. Is there a need to discuss matters? Let's sign up. Two in, two in. Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u120	Please pass the word to Prokopchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u121	National Deputy Prokopchuk “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Winnichtina. Dear colleagues! The point is that this is really a necessary law for adoption, and we have considered it in detail on the committee. Moreover, many recommendations are already there, as they say, accepted. But the question is how, when we decriminalize article 201, it's smuggling and at the same time we want to introduce operational search activity, that's it, and investigation, including, it's not entirely, as they say, logical. So my suggestion is that we directly have to prepare this law so that it's accepted in general, but at this stage, we send it for further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u122	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u123	Dear colleagues! I urge you not to support the legislative initiative put forward here by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. I've been in the Supreme Council for 10 years, and I think it's probably the tenth attempt to do exactly that position in the Supreme Council, and every time it would have failed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I'm convinced that at this point the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue to demonstrate its principle of position. What is it? It is proposed that customs authorities be given the right to carry out procedural actions in accordance with the Law on Operational Investigation and to carry out appropriate procedural actions, for example, knowledge, judicial investigation in certain categories of a particular part of the criminal code. So we're actually being offered, and again this idea is being imposed to turn customs into another penal authority. I'm definitely against that idea. I say that this is not in line with European standards, but with more civilized approaches to solving this issue. And that's why I'm proposing to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u124	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I'll speak briefly. The point is that the process of transforming a democratic state, which is not yet built, is only declared, Ukraine into a criminal police officer long ago is part of the plans of all the orange-loving friends that Majdan must have made for it. and the reprisals that followed included such plans. The strong pressure, the effort to push anything through the Supreme Council, this bill tells us that there are no new ideas of fresh people in our customs. Why is there so far in the crisis session room, the global financial crisis that has passed across Ukraine's borders, why there is no bill that is aimed at improving the customs policy of the Ukrainian State, and instead of dragging the same dead cat into a bag. Criminals, reprisals, arrest. I now understand how in a few days before the new year it was possible to increase so sharply the revenue from customs tariffs. Such a bill in the session room cannot be supported by us.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u126	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the fight against smuggling and customs violations, as defined by the President of Ukraine as urgent in the first reading. [[Registration number 3359]] [[17:45:55]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. There are no votes. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act is being announced for consideration, and at prices, 3016. Report by the Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection, Movcan Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The project is designed to improve the effectiveness of state-level land assessment. The main features of the project, the acts relate to the amendment to Article 18 on land assessment. [[establishing a time limit for carrying out a normative and monetary assessment]] The monetary valuation of land areas was previously 5-7 years old, agricultural. Non-agricultural – 10 years. The last years of increasing investment in land, and you know that today it costs one hectare of land, we come up with this proposal to reduce the monetary valuation from 5 to 7 years. That, you know, that'll give you an addition to the state budget and improve the investment climate. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u128	Please sit down. The committee's report is Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, the bill is quite clear. And he was fully considered by the Supreme Council of the previous General Assembly. But it wasn't signed by the President because he's incapacitated. And the content of the bill relates to amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act only in part to carry out a normative and monetary assessment of land within and outside the population. So we're distinguishing, we've only had within the population, we're now adding outside. The dates are the same, everything's left. So I think, here and under a reduced procedure, you can accept this bill as a law without discussion. And let the executives carry out a proper assessment of the agricultural and non-agricultural lands of another assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u130	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? There is a need to discuss. Please log in. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u131	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I think even the terms proposed today are too long -- 5-7 years. The value of land is determined primarily by a normative estimate, but there is also a market assessment that is formed, and it is not entirely responsible. Even today and a year ago, the market price for the land sold there is quite different. So I don't want these long-term periods to create a situation after that for some who buy this land by underestimation. I believe and will propose to change these terms, no more than 3 years in both types of land. This will allow for a more rapid response to the real price of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u132	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u133	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to draw the attention of all of Ukraine and, above all, the State Commission and the government. Today, there is the Center of the State cadastre, which registers. The government’s land cadastre has already reached the point where it orders to raise registration fees. I'm giving an example. In 2007, the registration cost 18 dollars, in 2008 it was already worth 168 dollars, even the rent supplement today cost 66 dollars. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the 2001 Joint Order of the State, Minfin and Mineconomy, the value of such documents was to be 5 bracelets for natural persons, for legal persons 25. Of particular concern is that the deadline for registration in the State cadastre is something strange, nothing is set. I specifically asked the State Commission, together with the government and all interested entities, to study these issues, and probably the State Land cadastre, the registration centre itself needs to be arranged by the State Commission of Ukraine in order to have any order. Or, if not, use very different methods.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u134	The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act. Registration number 3016. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:52:18]] For 329 Decision taken. During the speech, national MP Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich proposed that the law be amended. Is there any pressure on other deputies and on Bondarenko's national deputy to prepare this draft law for second reading? Can we put it all together now, as recommended by the committee? Vladimir Dmitrovitch does not insist. No one insists on change? I am voting on the draft law amending the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act as a whole. [[on the time limit for carrying out a regulatory monetary valuation of land]] Registration number 3016. Please vote. [[17:53:11]] For 337 The law has been passed in general. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act, registration number 3352, is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the clarification of the certification procedure]] Reported Deputy Minister of Agrarian Policy Gadzalo Jaroslav Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u135	Thank you. Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, honourable national MPs, the bill is being submitted with the aim of bringing Ukraine’s Law “On the Free System of Economic Activities”, Ukraine’s Law on Grain and Grain Market in Ukraine”. The bill specifies the procedure for issuing certificates for the conformity of grain storage services and processing products, and certificates for the quality of grain and its processed products. In accordance with part one of the first article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, the bill proposes to supplement articles 11 and 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Grain and Grain Market and to determine the need to obtain a certificate of conformity with the maintenance of grain and its processing products or a certificate of quality of grain and its processing products, a permit authority to issue a certificate, the payment of a certificate, the time-limit for making a decision, or its issuance, or the refusal to issue a complete list of reasons for such refusal, the possibility of the holder to use a declaration principle. The introduction of the bill, which is proposed for consideration, does not require additional funding from the State budget. The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. People's deputies would like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u136	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Correspondence from the committee, Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u137	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Agricultural Policy, of Land Relations, have considered the bill and has also proposed that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Of course, this is another step toward bringing civil order to the grain market, and especially in the field of grain storage, so that the bread that farmers and the state receive is of good quality and has a good price. In order to do so, they must be certified, and according to this certification there must be the cost of storing grain, the responsibility for storing grain, the state documents appropriate and, accordingly, the right responsibility and relationship among those operators. So we also recommend that this law be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u138	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Let's sign up for a discussion, please. Please, the Lithuanian Yuri Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u139	It's the Lithuanian Block. I'd like to give Catherine Timothy Vaschuk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u140	Catherine Timothy is out of line and we'll give it to you. You can perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u141	Dear colleagues, this law has indeed played a serious role in the formation of the grain market in Ukraine. But time is not in place, it is moving, demands are moving, especially the demands of the world’s markets. And in order for our traders to be able to compete, not only in the internal market, but also in the external market, we need to increase the requirements for grain conservation. And that means to all the warehouses. In addition, I would like to go to Minagropolitics today and to the committee of profile. We need to have a serious audit in Ukraine of all the farming we have. Because in its time, thoughtless privatization has led to the fact that many regions, entire regions of Ukraine do not have close proximity to storage facilities that would be owned by the State and can be sold bread that is purchased by Ukraine's agrarian fund, Ukraine's state reserve. You either have to go hundreds of miles, or you have to suffer a lot of damage, looking for storage supplies in commercial structures. And we pay for three-way commercial structures. So first of all, you and I have to add to the list of enterprises that are not allowed to privatize all that's left of the state warehouses where we can receive and store the crops, and so that the state can be a serious operator in the bread market. And the second is to study the possibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u142	Please finish Katerina Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u143	And especially how to learn how to build the most modern ones in areas where they are not, and where people who have not just grown them need to be sold for hundreds of miles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u144	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u145	I'd like to go to the Ministry of Agriculture, and I'd like to go to the relevant committee, and I'd like to take a look at the entire grain chain, from the combines to the car, to the run, to the next, to the car, to the car or to the car. In all of this, only railway wagons need to be treated according to our health policy. By the way, this adds to the cost of the state or traders, a huge sum. Sanitary treatment of cars is pointless if it's just part of this. This is a chain of movement. If this requirement were applicable, including to cars, to currents, to elevators, and to all other elements of the transshipment, it would be understandable. So on the railways and only on the wagons, and part of the grain is delivered on the cars, there is no such requirement, and the ambulances need to carry huge costs and raise the cost of transshipment. I'd like you to consider maybe making suggestions to simplify this scheme as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-05-m1.u146	The discussion is over, and I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act (Registration No. 3352) as a basis. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:01:06]] For – 328 Decision taken. The rapporteur from the committee suggested that the draft law be adopted in general. Is there a denial? No objections? I would like to vote on the adoption of the whole draft Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act” on clarifying the procedure for issuing the certificate, Registration No.3352. Please vote. [[18:01:47]] For – 346 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. Thank you all for your work. I declare the evening plenary session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the next morning plenary meeting will begin.
