ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for registration. Please include the “Council” system. [[10:00:35]] There are 360 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on December 15 13 questions of the agenda have been considered: 5 laws, 3 bills adopted on the basis, 1 bill and 3 draft regulations rejected, 3 interim commissions of inquiry have been heard. Today, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of Ukraine’s national deputies. Please sign up. Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u2	Dear President, distinguished colleagues! More recently, we have witnessed the unprecedented statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko, that the Ukrainian Act, adopted through legal procedures to improve social standards, will not be implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers. As a motive for refusing to increase the payment of minimum wages and pensions to low-income compatriots, it was implied that money was not being spent. It was officially recognized that the Government had finalized the pen. I reported to you here yesterday on the work of the interim commission of inquiry on the abuse of Sevastopol's executive power. He said that land that was illegally transferred by the Sevastopol City Public Administration could spend at least 2 billion dollars in fines if it were sold legally through auctions in accordance with all necessary procedures. Turns out these billions aren't needed by the Prime Minister. It turns out that the main dignity of power is to draw out loans, so-called tranches, and as they are spent, nobody cares about it anymore. The main thing is to be robbed by members of their team, their subordinates on the ground. How will the faction vote against the will of the Prime Minister, who, following the receipt of the Supreme Council Order of 16 January on the preliminary report of the Commission, failed to submit to the President the withdrawal of the post of President of the Sevastopol State Administration? Of course, a faction team was given to forgive those two billion beloved subordinates. She probably needs them for other purposes. In its preliminary report, the Commission made it clear that the Cabinet of Ministers, under the leadership of Yanuković, had allocated Sevastopol in 2006 to address the emergency and build sewage collectors in the village of Orlin and other objects 8.9 million griven. In December 2007, the Sebastopol State Department reported to Kabmin that all the money had been made! How'd you get it? Listed to our firms in Simferopol, sewage collectors have not been made to date, and we have written to Julius Vladimirovne on several occasions, and this is not interesting to her. Millions of people move in there, too. What kind of pensions? Who expects them to rise, minimum or minimum wages? Nothing is going to happen because it's not interested in what even in such a small region in Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u4	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u5	People’s MP, Kseniya Mikhailovna, hands over the right to speak to Kirilenka Vijacheslav Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” is still concerned that the country is running out of budget for the next 2010. We are surprised by the position taken by government officials on this subject. To talk about the need to confirm some conclusions of the budgetary committee after the entire budget has passed all the procedures in Parliament and has not been supported is at least an exaggeration, as it is obvious that the government must, taking into account the positions and proposals of the deputies representing the various political forces, introduce a new draft budget for 2010, in which all the necessary expenditure should be foreseen. I understand that the government thinks that it is better to put it off for later, but the question arises when “after”.” Now we have December 16th. January 17th presidential election. February 7th, the second round. After the second round, it is not known that: maybe the courts, maybe the opposition, or maybe mutual nonrecognition. After it's all over, creating, transforming, canceling new and old coalitions. The question is, when the MPs return to the 2010 budget issue. Smallest estimates -- they say it's not until April next year. The following question arises, and until both the prime minister and the leader of the opposition, and all senior officials of the country will share authority, who will manipulate? I would like to say "take care of" but surely in our tradition, which has evolved over many, many years to manipulate government budgets. There is no answer. Any official, any officer without any control from Parliament in the absence of the Budget Act will use the budget to the right and to the left as he pleases. If the Prime Minister arranges for such a situation, it should be stated directly. That's the first one. The other one. We call on colleagues from BUTU to return until there are candidates for the Presidents in the Hall, to those bills that are important. For example, the bill on external independent evaluation, which has been in Parliament for 8 months and has not moved. Now, I've read a recent report from the Party of Regions that they're going to come to power -- and they're going to cancel the external independent evaluation at all, because they like the old system. We're not like you. So let's not block the law of profile on the committee, but put it into the plenary room and vote together, indicating that at least some of the factions in Parliament are necessarily democratic. The same is true of a number of other questions. When she met President Putin, the Prime Minister laughed there, and, obviously, it caused dissatisfaction with national voters. After that, he was placed in the urgent order.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u8	Following that, BUT put forward a bill on the recognition of the UPA, but the BUT itself did not insist on this bill at any time in the plenary. So if it's not hypocrisy, colleagues, let's put this question up and vote in the next plenary week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u9	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u10	Please give the word to your colleague, Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u11	One moment, please. I also received a note from Vladimir Josephovich Matthews, who we have five speakers who are also asking to pass the word on to the national MP. So please take six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u12	Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! As you recall, early this year, the Federation of Trade Unions of the Odessa Region and its primary members of the regional trade union committee were led to despair by customs and Kiev authorities with thoughtless customs policies, tariff policies in the Odessa ports and ports of southern Ukraine. In this connection, the social protest led them to the Odessa-Kiev route by blocking the country's largest highway, and two young strong chauffeurs were led to suicide by the pressure of customs officers and the rates they raised on their shoulders. At that time, meetings with the Prime Minister of Ukraine and a number of government officials had been held, and relevant Cabinet orders had been adopted for 247, 206, 207, 226, 320 and 515, which had improved the service of port carriers, but in general the customs price, despite the promises of the Cabinet of Ministers and Customs, had remained exaggerated, in fact, twice. The free policy of raising customs rates has led to a significant reduction of freight not only in the ports of Clothing but also in the whole of Ukraine by 30-40 per cent, while importers have sent their goods through Romanian ports and ports of the neighbouring countries. Instead of the customs policy announced, the system had established a corrupt scheme in Ukrainian ports. Everyone knows that a law-abiding businessman is useless. The top-ranking lobby authorities allow only their firms to the trough, namely their boxes, so in the jargon of smugglers of all colors and paints they call containers that thousands and no problem leave the customs territory of our ports under the roofs of high-ranking officials from the Office of the Prosecutor-General, Customs and Security Services of Ukraine. Thus, this year alone, losses to the public budget amounted to between 20 billion and 30 billion grevens, and instead, the Black Sea River flows to the streets of Bankova and Grushewski. By November of this year, against the backdrop of the most polluted election campaign and the sharp dollar inadequacy in the streets of the Bank's Customs Revolving Bank, the new decision to increase the distance for import products was twice as loud as it was earlier in the year. And the recipients of the goods began to give up their cargo flows, and the carriers were once again out of work. Businesses whose goods are refused to be burdened on the basis of official payments alone, i.e., without turning into the pockets of officials, are afraid to shine and, in practice, to protest. On December 11th, the Odessa trade union decided once again to hold a protest on the Kiev route, and on December 12-14, a picket of Odessa Regional Customs took place. Given the likelihood of a new social explosion in the region and the possible blockade of the largest highway in the countries, as well as the cessation of the legal impunity that is being established in the customs territories of the ports of Clothing. On behalf of the Communist faction, I request the Prime Minister, Genprocuror, Head of Customs, Ukrainian Security Service to establish an interdepartmental commission and send it to Odessa and to stand on the path of protecting the law and its own people. As a positive result, I hope from the faction, to see the handcuffs stuck in the hands of the dirty officials of Odessa Customs, Ukrainian Customs and law enforcement workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u13	Bondarenko Viktorovich is transferring the right to speak to Mikhail Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u14	Honorable National MPs of Ukraine, distinguished voters! You know, yesterday, the Ukrainian State Committee of Statistics provided data that confirmed that the government's consistent position on the destruction of the Ukrainian people was confirmed by official data. Ukrainians are no longer 46 million but 45 million. The government refused to increase wages and pensions, as stipulated by the law on raising social standards. And besides, last week, I personally addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear Julia Volodymyrically, please publish your appeals to the International Monetary Fund. Share the memo. Make the order 835-R from July of this year so that the Ukrainians can see your real face. That the government today made a commitment in 2010 not to raise wages, pensions, and social assistance to Ukrainian citizens. In addition, the government made a commitment in 2010 to raise the retirement age for men to 65, for women to 60. Imagine that the life span of men in Ukraine is 63 years. Tymoshenko plans a retirement age of 65 years. Practically none or only one of the men will live to see the pension. That's absolutely ridiculous. Dear colleagues! In addition, you know that if the government had previously promised to increase gas prices every quarter by 20 percent, now the government has made a commitment to increase the price of gas for the population by 25 percent every quarter. And as I finish my speech, I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, I am addressing the Ukrainian people's deputies, as of January 1st, the law of Ukraine's "To raise social standards", and the pensions of Ukrainian citizens should be counted on January, already with a minimum pension of 695 dollars. Salaries to budget workers are to be accounted for on January on the basis of a minimum wage of 869 dollars. We turn to the government of Ukraine, obey the law of Ukraine! The people of Ukraine are already on the verge of survival, poverty. And I'm sure you'll get a decent grade in January and February of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u15	Pavlovsky’s national deputy, Andri Mihajlovich, is transferring the right to speak to Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u16	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. I'd like to ask the previous speaker if he would publish where he shares the glasses for a million dollars, with the last election process being brought to Ukraine and shared somewhere, because of the ministry he headed at the time. But I'm speaking for another reason, today I've had a very big announcement about the kidnapping of former Prime Minister Yanukovic of the state residence of Migiriya and everything on 140 hectares. The point is that today, in the media, they actively clean up any negative on this subject, and this is what a person who heads the Freedom of Speech Committee is doing, absolutely not logically. But today I would like to address the representatives of the Party of Regions and Janukovic himself, don't be afraid of anyone attacking you. I read yesterday that I was going to attack this residence with my fellow national deputies. No, we ask only one, let Nicholas Giga, who stole the documents from the High Town District Administration and the Novopetrov Rural Council, bring them back for trial. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers cannot go to trial because there are no original documents stolen today that appear to be in the Attorney General’s Office. And this is a matter that needs to be considered, because recently, on January 9, Mr. Hemun, who heads the UN, said that corruption is not an impersonal force, it is specific people who are guided by the motivations of their own profit. So when the President signed a secret order for the transfer of "Migirja" Yanukovich, what he was guided by, I don't know. What Janukovic was guided by when he took these 140 acres [140 ha] of land was, of course, protected by the ministers of his government, Jarta, as well as by me. Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers Olena Lukash. They all acted solely in the interests of the states, refusing the claim of the Cabinet of Ministers to the kidnapper. In this scheme are involved, including the raiding decisions of the courts that made someone there a good buyer and so forth. So society should know who and how it is today and who it worked for. The short term of Januković's presence in power led to the fact that the stolen premises in the center of NAK “Nadra Ukraine”, the stolen residence “Migirya”, dozens of objects, and 19 illegal licences were issued for oil and gas. It's all about society. So I'd like us to look at this in court rather than think of someone attacking someone. And lastly, I would like to speak to the leader, there is a very important document concerning the President's election law. I think that after considering budgetary issues, we should immediately begin to consider this law. We don't have to organize schemes, again, forgeries, we want the law to be direct, understandable, and so that everyone who reads it, and the electoral commissions, and the citizens, understand that there will be no carousels that are being counted on in the eastern regions today, there will be no counterfeiting that has once been prepared with foreign Ukrainians who are supposedly millions of people going to the district. So let's take a look at this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u17	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Is he passing it on to you? He's transferring the right to speak to the national deputy Kravchuk. Please, the microphone of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! While in the district of Hmelničina, veterans came to me, members of the organization Veterans of Ukraine complained that they were being asked to vote for whom to vote in the presidential elections. When the organization Veterans of Ukraine was formed in 1991, the main task and purpose of its organization was to provide for the full protection of legal rights, social, economic, age-old interests of war veterans, labour, children of war, war veterans and other power structures of pensioners, senior citizens. According to this statute, the sixth paragraph provides that the organization is not allowed to create party groups, factions. If a member of the political party is elected to the governing body of the veteran organization and, in particular, the head of the council, he should be guided by the provisions of the statute of the Ukrainian Veterans on the independence of the organization in all its activities from any political parties and movements not impose a decision on his party. Regrettably, however, on November 11, 2009, the fifth plenary of the Ukrainian Veterans Council adopted the Order “On the Participation of the Organization of Veterans in Ukraine’s Regional, Crimean Republic. the Republican, Kyiv and Sevastopol City District, the city's primary veterans' organizations in the next election of the President. And it decrees that in the election of the President of Ukraine, the candidate for the left and left centrist force, Simonek Petr Mikolaiovich, will be supported. As the main task of the organization is to prove to all the regional primary centres of the organization, the veteran organizations that all the original veteran organizations should support only Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich. The Veteran newspaper, which is a newspaper of the veteran organization of Ukraine, has the impression of veterans that it is an organ of the Communist Party of Ukraine, not a veteran organization, where the decision of the same plenary is published again. And that the only candidate to be supported by veterans is Peter Simonenko. Dearly managed by the Ukrainian Veterans, please do not violate the organization's statute and please allow our veterans to make their own appointment as President of Ukraine. I'm talking to our veterans. Veterans, members of all veteran organizations, make the right choice and do not carry out illegal decrees of the plenary. With your experience, you can see who is doing everything in real government to improve the living conditions of veterans. And I would recommend to the members of the veteran organization of Ukraine that you conclude about the head of an organization that is in grave violation of the organization's statute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u19	Glazunov Sergey Mikolaiovich is referring to Irina Mikhailovny Akimimovy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, the trees near this rostrum say that the new year is coming. I would like to recall that this week is two years from the start of the work of the Government of Timoshenko. In the new year, the results of what has been done are always summarized. What did Timoshenko promise? That she promised the country, the business and the population. The country of Timoshenko promised to raise international image, bring living standards to Europeans in two years, improve the business climate and fulfil all social promises, including the lifting of compulsory recruitment into the army. What did the country get in the last two years? During these two years, Ukraine became the first to slow down the growth rate of gross national product and industrial production, taking first place in Europe by level of inflation, it is the highest. Ukraine has received a huge debt loop of 44 per cent of GDP, which will have to pay the Ukrainian population for an unprecedented increase in the shadow economy and corruption. 40 billion bracelets stolen from public procurement are a big fat piece of work by the Government of Timoshenko this year. What did they promise the business? Cancellation of VAT, introduction of a new Tax Code. What did he get the business? He received a double-debted VAT refund. He received an increase in advance payments for profits. And Timoshenko's work for small businesses resulted in the closure of 156 000 single-tax entrepreneurs in the first six months and 100,000 fixed-tax workers in the first six months. What did the population get? And the population was still lacking in the contractual army. The population received only 5 per cent of savings instead of full savings. The population was denied the Government's refusal to raise social standards. And the population has had a terrible result when Ukraine takes one of the first places in Europe to spread AIDS and tuberculosis. These are the real results. So now, just before New Year's Eve, we can confidently say: “Timoshenko tree has proved to be a shell of empty promises”. And at this new holiday, unfortunately, Timoshenko instead of Snow White turned to Baba Yagoya. In order for our citizens' new hopes to be fulfilled in the new year, we need a new team that can not only promise but also actually do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u21	Vetwicki Dmitry Alexanderovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u22	I give the floor to the People's Deputy Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u23	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, now we've heard a lot of pain, maybe some populist pain, there, I don't know what, but let's start with the main. Yesterday, Alexander Volodymyrovich, you said that 5419 The Law on the Elections of the President of Ukraine cannot be put in place because there are no relevant documents that would allow us to read the conclusions of the Scientific and Expert Committee, as well as the conclusions of our committee. I'm proving to you that today we've received all the national MPs with the relevant documents, and for today, the reasons for the formal ones that we were unable to consider this bill yesterday are no longer there. Therefore, first and foremost, why I went to this rostrum, I am very much asking today to review the Law amending the election of the President of Ukraine without delay. I want to remind you that the President's election, the first round of his ballots, starts on January 17, 2010. And you know now there's information about mass counterfeiting that's already being prepared even on this day. There is already information that about 600 complaints have been “imposed” by representatives of law enforcement authorities that relate to the fact that there are citizens' claims that they are not included or that they should be included in the voter lists. Listen! They're dated on January 17th. Today, thank God, December 2009, we did not celebrate Santa Claus with you. So let's think about what the goal of the election is: do we still want the will to win, or do we want to fake and win at any price? I want to say that Yulia Timoshenko's Block is in a very clear position: the elections are to receive citizens' will, not falsification. We have a law that, unfortunately, the Constitutional Court, and there are even recommendations from the Venice Commission, stopped the law that we were able to pass with you. We saw what was done at the last plenary meeting with this law. For some reason, I can't understand why our colleagues don't want to support a law that would make it impossible to forge. Okay. Now the President has addressed the Supreme Council, with the same request he has never asked, to return to that law that we did not support. As long as the substance and the matter are prepared by the committee, a bill that deals with only a few positions that the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission pay particular attention to. It's about the inability to falsify citizens' lists, and it's about the fact that citizens who can't get to the polling stations themselves can.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u24	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u25	They can vote in places. Dear colleagues, who among you will not have a hand in supporting such norms, which will allow citizens to vote at home if they cannot reach the polling station, and also if the citizen is not included in the list, why he cannot be included in the list three days before the election. I ask and appeal to the presiding officer, please include this bill today for consideration as urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u26	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u27	Lilia Grigorovich, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Each of the National Deputies, who is the head of the faction, the head of the committee, or the secretary of the faction, received an enrollment from the Supreme Council Secretariat, which deals with the following. “Dear colleagues, please provide the meeting attendance table and other financial statements no later than December 17th, because no accounts will be made from December 20th.” What am I talking about? And what I'm saying is that the budget year ends after December 20. And I would like to point out that in the eastern regions of Ukraine we have a higher level of influenza disease. And today, a wave of epidemics is coming from the east. And in view of that, dear friends, if you were to film and show a video like this, and each of us looked at what was being done to this epidemic, what was happening to our voting with the trampling on the spot, and what was this nonsense, where the logic, what was this country's absurdity? So, dear friends, we voted with you 608 million dollars. Today, really, as they said from this rostrum, in a few days, Santa, December 19th, and then Sunday 20th. And in view of that, the question is, Who will take responsibility for the efficient and rational use of these funds? You know, as a child doctor I've heard from this rostrum of politics, people are completely distant from what's called medicine, so they've appealed to people's lives, the deaths of people. And I want to tell you, really, during the first wave, 500 citizens died. And I want to remind you that in April of this year, the committee called on the government to allocate half a billion dollars to fight the epidemic. We have 68 million, and we don't have 400 million. So who's going to take responsibility for the fact that there were no oxolin ointments of 8 bracelets that didn't have masks of 40 copies? And who will take the responsibility that now that the budget year is over and the funds are not going to be used, and then the holiday wave will go away, the pharmacies in the eastern regions of Ukraine will not have what it takes. My dears! You know, all of this reminds me of such a famous cologne anecdote that they sowed one hectare of beet, the longnose, let's sow two hectares of beet, maybe enough longnoses. If there is a crisis in Ukraine and if we count every national dollar, it is likely that we need to make an immediate enrollment and literally fill the pharmacies that are needed during this week. It just has to be question number one. Finally, the “For Ukraine” group proposed amendments to Law 5339/1 on advertising, where we propose restricting advertising on air to treat people rather than self-medicate. And I call it urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u28	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u29	First of all, the government and the profile committee that I have the privilege of representing here, and the budget committee should make a schedule that by December 20, we should have regions to prepare for the second wave of the epidemic, not just tossing, a million there, half a million, half a billion back, and all of that together is called the Bronze Movement and the lack of any responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u30	The statement has been completed. Dear colleagues, the line. Dear colleagues, the speech has been completed, the replica, Cibenko Petar Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u31	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the veteran organization, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, here is one distinguished gentleman from the government faction, not to be called his last name in order not to have the right to a replica, very actively advocated a decision in the plenary of the Ukrainian veteran organization that I lead. I want to confirm once again that, indeed, the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine, and more specifically, its V plenary has decided to support the future presidential election of the left-wing bloc, left-wing forces of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonnka. I am grateful for this advertisement that he has made. I want to confirm that the decision was taken by an absolute majority of the participants in the plenary, only two voted against and three abstained. This once again confirms the high authority of the Left and Left Powers Block, and the high chance it has of winning these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u32	Replica, Giga Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u33	Thank you. I'd like to answer Mr. Bondarenko's allegations of kidnapping, so-called document theft. And I'd like to ask him to show off his property in the village of Bouzoy Kyevo-Svetoshin district: 4 hectares of land, forest, residence. It's probably not quite fair. And in my future, when I was at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a lot of different information went to this gentleman. It's just me. That's what he must have forgotten, and let him talk about himself. As for the removal of documents, they were deleted in accordance with the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry in order to preserve them and not fall into the hands of forgers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, during the presentations we received a proposal regarding the consideration of draft Law 5419. You really got all the material you needed this morning, so I want to make sure that, as one of the authors of the proposals who made changes to electoral legislation yesterday said that documents should be read before voting. Since they were received today, I think tomorrow's session will provide for a review of this project. Dear colleagues, a letter has also been received from the five leaders of the MP factions that after considering the first two issues, we should move forward. Today's schedule envisions a ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to be considered on the third issue. Will Ukraine’s national deputies be denied? None. Thank you. Today we have a situation similar to what we had yesterday morning. The Supreme Council yesterday decided to review today with the first two questions of Bills 5394, 5395 on the introduction of changes to the 2009 State Budget. We had the authors and the budget committee deal with the proposals that were being made yesterday in order to bring the Supreme Council of Ukraine up to date. The corresponding table is prepared and prepared by the head of the budget committee. But we don't have a decision on the budget committee. I'm addressing you, honourable Ukrainian national deputies, can we look at these drafts in a second reading for a table without a budget committee decision? Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, after our first reading yesterday, especially after yesterday's failed visit by the Prime Minister to Luhansk, when the people were already overwhelmed by the deception of miners, when they were pouring like a song, empty promises, voicemails, and miners did not know how to relive how to spend New Year's Eve, rather than cover the table and so on. Therefore, they ask the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt the bill today in return for this chattel. The budget committee will not vote without the budget committee, the table is distributed. I think there's going to be 226 people who think about people, not think about desert politics. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u36	Is there no objection to the consideration of these two projects? Is there a denial? Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I'm sure the miners will get the money. I'm pretty sure we can solve the issue with energy. But I am firmly opposed to the dilettarian approach when we do not get the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance, the conclusions of a government that is bound by the budget code. I mean, I'm in favour of absolutely demanding all the legislative and budgetary requirements, including if we're making changes to the budget. So I'm asking you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, let me give you a word to the Deputy Minister of Finance, who is present, let them say what they think, what the government thinks on this issue, and then let's make a decision, because we've come to a rude cynicism when we're looking at it at nothing at all. The Committee on Freedom of Speech is not meeting, the Committee on Freedom of Speech is not meeting, only those to whom are selectively published in the “Voice of Ukraine”. Who's interested in the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask that we don't go to party competitions and political evaluations right now, because if yesterday, Yuri Anatoliyevich, you were looking at two draft changes to the State Budget without the conclusion of the budget committee, you did not personally object. These issues were discussed and approved, which involved justice and financing for the Ministry of Health. I ask that we approach each issue in a balanced manner, and if there is a consensus position of all five factions so that we can consider it. If not, we will not consider it naturally. Please sign up now from the discussion procedure, I'm yelling a few hands already up. People's MP Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u39	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. A serious charge has just been made to the budget committee. I'm going to say that there was a budget committee in the mid-tenth today, but those who run the MPs from the faction of the Party of the Regions have to ensure that their deputies are present for committee meetings. Today eight people came, a quorum 17, and there was no man from the Party of Regions. MacKeenko came, but he didn't register, even though he's in the correct table. But there was a representative of the Ministry of Economics, a representative of the Ministry of Finance. And this working group worked out these amendments that are in the table today. Please insert these issues, important to miners, into the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u40	People's Deputy Cranwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, if the budget committee is not meeting, we really have some serious work done by the committee secretariat and the committee head, so I think we should put it to the vote. But there are other committees working for a reason. There's something wrong with that. Maybe they didn't pick those people there? Maybe we need to make clear the lists of people who traditionally don't visit committees for more than 10 or 20 meetings, and we need to consider excluding these people from the committees. We have a few people who still can't get on the committee. Let other people take their place, and they come, I work. And the last thing I want to focus on. This was once a protocol decision, reflected in the Rules, that on Wednesday we considered all the ratification documents in full terms. These questions, on the one hand, do not wait, on the other hand, for a number of minutes to be considered. I would advise that we return to this practice, that we do not have conflicts, and that we resolve them in minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u42	National Deputy Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, unfortunately, the practice of working on many of the professional committees has been that they do not consider very much the bills that define today's critical problems of the country's vitality and, above all, address the social protection of the people. And these bills may lie on committees for several months, but these two very, very serious bills, which are about financial stability of coal enterprises and about paying off the debt of coal mines, they have to be considered, as they are very much expected, to solve these problems, coal workers. Coal industry. Therefore, our faction insists that we consider these issues in our second reading. It's a document.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u44	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u45	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, unlike empty government statements that did not give miners anything but had driven, practically, the coal industry into bankruptcy. This, the adoption of this law, is a real step towards at least some financial support for coal miners. We cannot be held hostage by the fact that sometimes the BUT faction with our Ukraine vote together, sometimes they vote in different ways. You won't know who there is, what god they pray for, or what other gods they pray for. The Hall cannot be a hostage of this situation. The main people cannot be held hostage to the situation that most people do not understand. The faction of the Party of the Regions therefore calls upon all, to call for the conscience of all sitting parliamentarians, to vote in favour of the bill and to give some financial assistance to miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u46	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u47	Please give the word to your colleague Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I would like to advise you not to mention the god in the dry land, but first. And secondly, our political power, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, the faction in the Supreme Council yesterday clearly showed that it supports this bill -- both one and the other. So we're going to vote in favour of Bill 5394 in second reading and in general. And also for Bill 5395 in the second and in general. So please, I'd like to ask our opponents not to make a decision, not to speak for our faction. We are willing to vote and we will support this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. And only one Ukrainian national deputy objected that we should now begin to consider making changes to the budget this year for the financing of the coal sector. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! When we adopt the State Budget Act, we need to understand whether there are sources of fulfillment or not or whether the 2008 Special Fund is not spent or spent. So my position is perfectly logical and consistent, it's coming out of the Budget Code. In addressing these issues, I do not object to their consideration, but when considering these matters, Alexander Volodymyrovich is honourable. Let them know if it's a source or real or not real. That's what this is all about. If they say, yes, it's real, we can vote, because this money is on the treasury account, we can distribute something. If they're saying it's unrealistic, it's going to be either the President's veto, or we don't have the right to do it, because it's going to be the unreality of the budget and the balance of that very tight document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u51	So, dear colleagues, I understand that there is no Ukrainian national deputy who denies the consideration now in the second reading of these two projects. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5394]] Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u52	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! You're invited! On 15 December, the Supreme Council adopted a bill to amend Ukraine’s State Budget for 2009 submitted by the People’s Deputies Martinenko, Titenko and the Royal, number 5494. [[on the financing of the stabilization of the coal industry]] The bill envisions the creation of an additional source of energy-generating companies, Thess, for coal production of state-owned coal companies to ensure timely payment of wages to miners. In line with the Supreme Council’s mandate to prepare a draft for the second reading on December 16th. On December 16, at 9: 30 a.m., the Budget Committee was scheduled to hold a meeting, but the meeting did not take place due to the absence of a quorum. However, in view of the importance of the issue I have mentioned, on December 16th, the National MP, along with the National Deputies, Mr. Makijenko Volodymyrovich and the author of the Tetenko Bill, Mr. Sergey Mikhajlovich, addressed a comparative table for the second reading, taking into account our proposals, which clarify the summary figures for income and expenditure in the article first and in addition, and correct the arithmetic errors regarding the indicators of article 69 and appendix number one to the bill. By reducing the collection's revenue in the form of a target allowance for the current electricity and heat tariff by 245 million dollars, the authors mistakenly accounted for two billion 680 million dollars, which is referred to in article 69 of the State Budget 2009 Act, which counted two billion 600 million dollars. On the basis of this proposal, consider the comparative table given to the bill, support the proposed amendments to the bill, and adopt Bill No. 5394 on second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u53	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Since we do not have the decisions of the amendment committee that are proposed, each of them will be considered and put to the vote. First amendment of the People’s Deputies of Derkach and Maquienka. Please take the tables so that we do not read the text of each amendment. There is a denial of the first amendment made by the national MPs, Derkach and MacKeenko. I bet on the vote of Amendment No. 1. [[10:52:21]] For 328 Decision taken. The second amendment of the National Deputies of Derkach and MacKeenk. Is there a need to discuss the objection to this amendment? I bet on the vote of Amendment 2. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:52:53]] For 340. Correction supported. The Third Amendment of the People’s Deputies of Derkach and MacKeenk
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u54	It's considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u55	Is there a objection, a need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u56	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u57	Amendment No. 3 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:53:23]] For 341 Correction supported. Amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputies of Derkach and Maquienk. Is there a need to discuss? I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 4. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:53:55]] For 342 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is how we have considered all the amendments. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[Registration number 5394]] Please vote. [[10:54:31]] For 361 The law has been passed in general. Now, if there are no objections to the Ukrainian national MPs, I will ask the Deputy Minister of Finance to express how this law will be implemented. Please, the microphone of the bed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u58	With regard to the implementation of this law. In the past, the government had already adopted a decision and, in fact, the money that was being invested in the Treasury was 260 million. [[Mr. Carmazin was asking a question.]] So that's what this money is.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u59	Have all the questions been answered? And that's the people's deputy Carmazin, I understand, I didn't hear. Did you hear that? A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5395]] Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u60	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! You're invited! On 15 December, the Supreme Council adopted a bill to amend the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2009 submitted by the People's Deputies: Martinenko, Titenko, Royal Number. [[on the repayment of chess debt for electricity consumption]] [[5395]] The bill envisions the creation of an additional source of mining accounts to prepare for the liquidation of current consumption and repayment of electricity debt. In accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council, the deadline for December 16 is to prepare a draft for the second reading. On December 16, at 9: 30 a.m., a budget committee was scheduled to meet. However, the meeting did not take place because of the absence of a quorum. However, in view of the importance of this issue, on December 16th, I, as a national deputy, along with National Deputy Maceinko Volodymyr Wolodirovich and the author of the Bill, Titek Sergey Mihajlovich, addressed to the Supreme Council a comparative table for the second reading, taking into account our proposals, which clarify the summary of deficits and expenditures in Article 1 and the Appendices and correct arithmetical errors regarding the funding indicators in Appendix 1 to the Bill. Furthermore, subject to the adoption of a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget 2009 on the financing of the stabilization of coal enterprises No. 93. 5394, as a whole, as a law, provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications to Article 1 and Appendix 2 to Bill No. 5395 to ensure that such bills are harmonized and that the State budget indicators are balanced, including a reduction of the total expenditure rate of 245 million dollars. On the basis of the above, I propose to consider the comparative table given to the bill, to support the proposed amendments to the bill and to adopt Bill No. 5395 on second reading and generally as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, the procedure is similar to the one we used in the consideration of Bill 5394. Amendment No. 1 was introduced by the People’s Deputies, the Ripper and the Makeiank. Is there any objection to the need to discuss? None. I'll bet the vote on Amendment 1, please. [[10:58:27]] For 321 The amendment is supported. Amendment No. 2 of the People's Deputies of Derkach and Maquienk. Is there any objection to the need to discuss?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u62	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u63	None. Amendment No. 2 shall be put to the vote. [[10:58:56]] For 333 Correction supported. Amendment No. 3 of the People's Deputies of Derrick and MacKeenk. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u64	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u65	Amendment No. 3 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:59:22]] For 354 Correction supported. Amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputies of Derkach and Maquienk. Is there a denial? Amendment No. 4 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:59:51]] For-360 Correction supported. Amendment No. 5 of the People's Deputies of Derkach and Maquienk. Is there a need to discuss questions, objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u66	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u67	None. Amendment 5 shall be put to the vote. [[11:00:19]] For 353 Correction supported. Amendment No. 6 of the People's Deputies of Derkach and MacKeenk. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u68	I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u69	I'll bet on the vote of Amendment 6. [[11:00:46]] For 358 Correction supported. I would like to vote on the second reading and the whole draft of the Ukraine Act amending the Ukraine Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[Registration number 5395]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:01:18]] For 376 Decision taken. The law has been passed in general. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0153. Reported by Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Savenko Leonid Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u70	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The draft Ukrainian Act under consideration was designed to take effect in Ukraine of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto, signed by Ukraine on 24 September last year. Our country's accession to this international instrument has been the beginning of a new phase of state policy for people with disabilities. Such a step is to confirm the state's rate of elimination of any discrimination against persons with disabilities, to change existing stereotypes of perception of people with disabilities, as citizens with limited rights and understanding of them as full members of society. Ukraine’s decision to accede to this international instrument also affects the image of our country in the world, as it confirms its social orientation. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities provides for a high level of protection for such persons and an obligation on the State to guarantee and guarantee the rights of persons with disabilities. That is why the ratification of this act is eagerly awaited by persons with disabilities and by public organizations who care for such citizens. I would like to point out that the ratification of the convention will not require the simultaneous allocation of funds for its implementation, as it provides for a reasonable adaptation of the environment and the progressive achievement of the new realization of the economic and cultural rights of persons with disabilities. The adoption of the aforementioned Ukrainian law will be an impetus for the substantial improvement of national legislation and the improvement of the living conditions of persons with disabilities. This will not only benefit the disabled, for it will become a powerful investment in the development of our society. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u71	Any questions for the reporter? Please log in. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u72	Thank you. That's my question. We ratified, if you remember, the European Social Charter. No draft legislation was adopted under the ratification of the European Social Charter. Today you said again that disabled people are looking forward to ratification. They're not waiting for ratification, they're waiting for the adoption and drafting of drafts to fill this ratification with real meaning. You submit to the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to it and no bill before this ratification. So why do we need this ratification? And what are we going to report to the international community about doing what? That we ratified. And then what? You see, instead of being really helping people with disabilities, it's once again the simplest brass pierre and display. If there are no bills for ratification, it's just paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. This was a separate meeting of all the central executive bodies where this issue was addressed. We're in the process of ratifying these documents and the convention and the optional protocol. We will continue to see and improve all our legislation within the framework of budgetary financing. Of course, these are lasting in times and times of action that we all are. All the ministries, all the departments will work. But ratification will give impetus to improving our legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u74	Blackmore Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u75	Please give the floor to the Deputy Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u76	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u77	Thank you. I want to keep going. You know, you give an answer, I don't know, I know what this is about, give an answer to our people with limited possibilities that Ukraine has what time, what time should it take to report on the implementation of the convention and the commitments we make? First question. The other one. In what form would this report look like, that is, how the authorities on the scene are supposed to report to you in the ministries about how the positions are ratified. And one more thing. Well, please, it doesn't fit this bill, but I didn't hear it too much. Maybe you'll say on the air now, where you can read the government's report on the implementation of the European Charter, the European Social Charter, the one we've accepted, because there's a lot of points there. And there's colleague Suškević standing, he knows, there's a lot of points that apply to social issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u78	Thank you. The convention, well, first question. Once every two years, we'll report after the convention's ratification. And the following questions. The convention envisions a gradual improvement in legislation. This is provided for by international law. And we confirm our efforts to do this improvement in our country. Moreover, we are going to the international level and to the European level. We always say we're going to Europe. But these same purposes need to be confirmed. We have ratified this convention, and we receive support from the European States in exchange experience and in support of our initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u79	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin. Your Honor, it's me. The question to you is, why do we give the wrong name? English title: “Convenchen ow ow ow pesons car eventbilitns”, i.e. “Convention on the rights of persons, people with disabilities”. You called it "The Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities" and an optional protocol to it. One. The other one. Why do you not, contrary to the Law on International Contracts, pass those laws and changes that result from it and are adopted at the same time on the basis of this law? [[on the ratification of an international treaty]] Thus, when making a remark, the Suhi National Deputy was right about what we were obliged to do, which was the norm of the law in force. And then, please, for the record, when are we ready to introduce these laws? Because we have people with disabilities today. I thank our colleague Suškević for having achieved today the inclusion of this issue in the agenda, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u81	Yes, on the first question. The convention is published jointly in six languages. This translation in our editor is the official translation of our MMS, which we use. By the way, in the Russian version, which the Assembly itself published, there were also “disabled people”. That's why. From English. And we have a translation of the MSI, it's not us. On the second question. And in our legislation, this is probably a philosophical question. By changes to legislation. The central authorities of our nation have submitted to us, the Ministry of Education has made proposals for the replacement of existing legislation and Derkomteladio.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u82	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u83	The Supreme Council is working in the Supreme Council. Other authorities have not amended our legislation. That's why we fulfilled the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u84	Please sit down, Leonid Alexiyovich. The report is Valery Mihajlovich Suškević, please. Then the next report will be – Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, you know, for me personally, and for many Ukrainian citizens with disabilities today, I think today we are, I hope, ratifying the Convention, a unique international legal instrument. What is the purpose of the Convention? The objective is to set out in detail the rights of persons with disabilities and to determine how they are to be implemented. In response to the questions raised by my respected colleagues about the legislation and the harmonization of our legislation with the Convention, I would like to say that the countries that have ratified are obliged to develop and implement the laws of their States and administrative action to protect the rights of persons with disabilities recognized by the Convention. I point out that for many years in our country, in Soviet and post - Soviet, we have resolved the issue of social support for persons with disabilities, social support, never mentioning that it is about rights, the ordinary rights of a person without legs, who is blind, who has hearing problems, other health problems that limit his or her functionality and discriminate against his or her relationship with society in its rights. This document is dominated by human rights, human rights, and disability. And it is by this document that the issue that those legislative acts that discriminate against persons with disabilities, who restrict the rights, decisions of government, customs, principles of society -- all that today comes at the rights and capabilities of people with disabilities of our citizens -- is what is the subject of this international legal instrument. The point is that this document creates powerful motivations for us to improve and implement our legislation in accordance with the provisions of the Convention. And another very important moment that is important to our nation. You know, our authority often forgets about the rights of the disabled, and what the Convention provides for reporting, once every two years, the reporting of Ukraine to the United Nations on the fact that, in relation to the Convention, the signatory State is obliged to do in its national legislation and how to implement it, it also provides opportunities for the development of our legislation and the protection of the rights and capabilities of persons with disabilities. Besides. In addition, there is another very powerful instrument that should work in our country, the question that the United Nations has the right to monitor the rights of the disabled of our State in the exercise and exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities in our country. It is also a vital factor that will enable us to stimulate the development of the disability - related direction. You know, one of my disabled colleagues, when he read the text of the Convention, he called this text and what it says, the right to life. The lives of those who are now limited to rights. The lives of those people who are still alive. For which society is not yet available. You know, I've been digging into our rostrum, and it's hard to climb it -- so far there's the reality that in our country, in terms of people with disabilities, they're crouching, they're climbing, they're climbing, they're climbing to get to their rights, and they're realizing their capabilities. I want our Ukrainian Parliament today to recognize the right to life in accordance with international law for citizens with disabilities. They confessed and worked with the Ukrainian Parliament, along with the government, together with the President to resolve the rights of people with disabilities without politics. I urge you to do so, and I ask you to support the ratification of this unique international legal instrument. You know, I'm today, this day is really a Jubilee, a three-year anniversary of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And on this very day, I really wanted us, the Ukrainian Parliament, who still has, unfortunately, a very difficult political dominant, not very social one, let's forget about this dominant, political one today, and support our citizens, citizens who.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u86	Finish up, Valery Mikhailovich. The question is to Valery Mikhailovich? No questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u87	I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u88	Thank you. Please have a seat. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The importance of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is that for the first time in the history of the world society of life and the social welfare of persons with disabilities, their humanitarian, social rights are placed under international control by the highest representative body of the world community, the United Nations. Nearly 150 countries signed this high humanitarian convention, and most of the signatories ratified, introduced this important international act into national legislation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council ratify this important bill. Unfortunately, he's been walking through government and state structures for almost a year and he hasn't been ratified. The adoption of this law will put the United Nations’ annual program and monitoring, and the government’s work on the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities will be accountable. And this will open up the possibility of forming a whole series of bills for the implementation of this convention. The main scientific and expert office supported the bill and, as we heard from the report of the chairman of the Suskewich Committee, the Disability Committee also supported the bill. Please support the recommendation of the Committee of Foreign Affairs regarding the ratification of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u90	Thank you. Is there a question for a co-conspirator?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u91	No questions asked. Please, Oleg Grigorovitch, sit down. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Please sign up for the discussion. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u92	Thank you. Communist faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, first of all, I think the document needs to be supported, the ratification decision needs to be made. As to the doubts that have been raised today, including the questions raised in this room, I also want to give some thought to them. What is the process of ratifying one or another document? So this is already a total dot, is this the beginning of a movement in the right direction? I think this is the beginning of a movement in the right direction. We do have many questions that need to be addressed. There is a question about the relevance of our national legislation to international treaties, there are issues that require a solution, but there is also an integral part of the movement towards addressing the problems of people with disabilities. Because it's been known for a long time that the level of civilisation of the state is largely determined by how they feel about how comfortable children feel in this state, people of older age, and I would add people with special needs. In recent years there have been some disruptions in Ukraine. But what I'm trying to say is that people with special needs, people with special needs, don't have any less problems than that. So I am absolutely convinced that this document needs to be ratified and that we need to move. First of all, to put the processes that are taking place in Ukraine under the control of European and world structures, regardless of who will be the President of Ukraine tomorrow, who will lead the government, so that these processes will be controlled, including for the control of European and world communities. Indeed, the question of how people with special needs feel about their activities is of utmost importance. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. Dear colleagues, you and I have a sad experience when some international documents have not been ratified by the Supreme Council. I mean, for a while, I mean. In particular, the European Social Charter. But it was not, for a long time, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for another reason: the government did not submit this document for ratification. And what did Ukraine win from that? What did the most unprotected sections of the population gain from this? Of course it's nothing. So once again, I would like to stress that the faction of the Company of Ukraine believes that the document needs to be supported, voted for. Once again, I stress, first of all, to put processes in Ukraine under the control of relevant European and world structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u93	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u94	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn to you from this rostrum after the chairman of the Suskević Committee has made a proposal to you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, and to Valentin Alexandrovich Zajcuk, head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to begin caring for the disabled from this rostrum. They can't come here because there's a stairway, we've talked about it more than once, but they still can't come here. It's very cheap, it's much cheaper than it is in a thousand, and hundreds of thousands of times than one previous Supreme Council head put flags here and put buttons on it and spent the cost without our permission. And today it's going to the presidents, it's much less expensive, it just requires us to apply what we ratify. So, dear friends, if we were to ask a question a year after the government asked us to ratify this convention after September 24, 2008, we would remember that there is article 29 and that there is political and social participation. So you and I, when we adopt the law on the election of the President of Ukraine, would predict that paragraph 3 is, because "and," "and," "and": guaranteeing the free will of persons with disabilities as voters and with this purpose of satisfaction, when it is necessary for their request to be given to any person for their choice of help in voting and other things that are written here. So if you and I were to pass laws yesterday or the day after yesterday that we passed on the disabled, we would also ask the question of article 28, the level of living and social protection that disabled people in Ukraine today need. And yesterday, as we discussed it, I asked the question of what should be developed and distributed free of charge today, programs that would provide disabled people with the possibility of using computers, including computers, and in order to make it easier for them. We should also contribute, and this is another article, 30 disabled persons, in cultural life, to recreation and sports. We have, especially on the national channels, on the budget channels, on the district television companies, sign conditions for the culture of the deaf to introduce, the translation that exists today, and all of this we have to do when we ratify this convention. For us today there is a reason and I am addressing you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, this is what he promised to do to the Chief of the Supreme Council, he did not. Let's do this so that we can listen to everything that's been going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u95	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u96	Thank you. I'd like you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to be in charge right now, I think Valentin Alexandrovich Zajchuk hears me and let's do it, it's very expensive. No, let's get together if there's no funds in the Supreme Council, and we'll make an entrance here for the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, the discussion is concluded, and I would like to sum up that none of the Ukrainian National Deputies has objected to the ratification of the Convention, but the right questions have been raised as to how this convention can be governed by the rules without the proper implementation of Ukrainian legislation. You and I have already had a case where we ratified a similar convention, providing for a period of validity of the law on ratification following the adoption of the changes necessary for its application to Ukrainian legislation. In this case, I would like to hear the point of view of the responsible deputy minister and the head of the committee. Do we have this need to predict that it will take effect after the amendments to Ukrainian legislation, or that we should give some time to adopt the laws and amendments we need to amend our legislation in order to get a working document after the ratification. Please, Leonid Alexiyovich, your point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u98	Alexander Volodymyrovich, after the ratification, will be working on this document, because those changes to the legislation that were needed by the relevant state authorities have been introduced and registered in the Supreme Council, we have official reports. However, we do not have a final list of all of us, since our legislation has been improved and there is no complete list, nor can any department give it today. Therefore, we think that adoption from today of this document will allow us to begin the process of improving this legislation. And it's going to be a long time, this process. The convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u99	What do you think is acceptable after the publication?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u100	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u101	Please, Valery Mihajlovich Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u102	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! I mean, we've done research in all the countries that have ratified the Convention. None of the countries had the full harmonisation of the existing national legislation of the Convention, even very, very sorry, civilised countries still had the imperfection of their legislation with regard to the disabled, to the rights of the disabled. So the question is that today the amount of what needs to be done in our country to harmonise the legislation of regulations, see December 3, the government adopted 17 government regulations and decisions that, by the way, corresponded to the convention. So these are steps that need to be worked today, processed systematically, and given some number one year, two years, three years. It's not going to be a valid term today. I think it's important for the Ukrainian Parliament to work for the next year in terms of, say, a full analysis of current legislation and then put into the right terms on the basis of a well-founded study of everything that harmonizes the convention with legislation. But it's not just a question of harmonization, it's a question of further degree and enforcement of Ukrainian laws that fit the convention. And I want to say analysis shows that the convention today, more faithfully, the national legislation in many ways is already in line with the convention. But the question is that not all our laws are being implemented. And in this, too, there is a problem today with Ukrainian authority, Ukrainian society and the degree of discrimination in the conformity of the convention. So I think that adoption today, more faithfully, ratification of the Convention gives a real start in dealing with all that needs to be done in accordance with national legislation once. And the second to implement national legislation, two. And the third. The question is, in fact, every two years, we will have a United Nations assessment of how we are moving towards convention standards, and it is also a process that will stimulate our actions, actions of power, the Ukrainian Parliament and all institutions of power today, as it touches the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u103	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich! I am voting on the draft Act on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol thereto. [[Registration number 0153]] Please vote. [[11:31:43]] For 390 Convention ratified. A report from the interim commission of inquiry on the situation of violations by officials, the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service and the current Ukrainian legislation in the performance of their duties is under review. [[on events surrounding the functioning of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" and the Ukrainian gas transport system]] Reported by Zwaritz Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u104	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to immediately thank the members of the commission, whom I have had the privilege of leading, for being very fruitful, as objective as possible, and I would say even the most effective work of our commission. I'm pleased to note that the commission worked for the first time in the context of the new current legislation, this Law on Investigative Commissions, as you know, is not working today, i.e. it has been cancelled, but at the time we would have had both certain procedural powers and certain procedural limitations and acted exactly within the framework defined by the Ukrainian Law. Our commission's investigation is down to four blocks. The first was the application of the "Alpha" sections when the NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” was removed. The second block was the question of arresting Deputy Director of Energy Customs Sheptek Taras Volodymyrovich. The third block concerned the monitoring of the investigation or the possible monitoring of the investigation by the President of Ukraine, i.e. the question was whether the Security Service investigators carried out procedural actions at the direction or direction of the Head of State. The fourth block referred to the information announced at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a substitute for the U.S.S.A. on the existence of a so - called criminal group, which he said was made up of government leaders. Six sessions were held, at which a number of proceedings were conducted in the course of research and investigation. Each of our procedural actions was accompanied by a committee decision, and these decisions were taken unanimously. That is, there was no such decision of our commission, more loyal, which was not adopted unanimously. There was an extract of a series of documents and documentary evidence, listed in a report that was given to you far earlier. 24 references are directed. So, then, what were the circumstances? It has been established that on March 2, 9th, the Senior Investigator of OSC 4 of the Board of Inquiry of the Board of Directors of Rosukrenerego and the People's Deputy of Novaková, and on the materials of the intelligence department, has revealed the introduction in criminal proceedings of No.457 for the fact that more than 6 billion cubic metres of natural gas have been seized by foreign property, by the abuse of officials by their official status. This introduction was opened in accordance with part five of article 191 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and the commission established negligence in the work of this very investigating authority, which was the basis. I want to give you that argument. This part of the fifth foresees a possible discovery of a criminal case in the case of crimes committed or a crime committed in the first four parts of this article. The SBU refers solely to the fifth part of this article, which states that if one of the first parts was committed to an organized group, then, of course, there are additional circumstances in the criminal case. We don't know what were the positions that just opened up the introduction of the case. Now, about the four blocks that I just mentioned. According to Valery Horoshkovsky, I should also point out here that every witness who gave testimony to members or, more faithfully, before the commission was warned of criminal responsibility in the event of false testimony given by him or her. This is confirmed by the relevant documents, since each witness was obliged to sign a corresponding document that indicated that he had just been warned of such criminal responsibility. Thus, according to Horoshkovsky’s testimony, the authorization to use this elite “Alpha” unit was granted by the head of the U.S.S. The reason was operational information that allegedly indicated that there was a threat to the life of the investigators. Instead, when we are in a closed session and have warned all the participants of a closed session about possible criminal responsibility in the event of the disclosure of information that should be made public at this meeting, neither the heads of the Security Service nor the other officials are. refused, more faithfully, to name the precise sources of this operational information. According to the commission, this fact shows that there was no such operational information — that is, the commission has strong reason to doubt the testimony of the Ukrainian Security Service. With regard to the existence of a criminal group, as Horoshkovsky spoke about here at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, neither the management of the Ukrainian Security Service nor any official of the Security Service that we questioned could specifically name the names of the members of this criminal group. So the commission concluded that, of course, these were the vocal statements that were sounded, unresponsibly sounded by the deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The only name mentioned was the name of the deputy director of the energy customs of Whisperer. Yet, according to the material of the court case that had been committed under these circumstances, the Security Service had said, on the contrary, that Whisperer was not a member of the criminal group itself, and he was only cooperating with this criminal group, whose members remain anonymous. The Commission's conclusion is that, of course, talking about some criminal group, the more that was made up of members of the government, is just nonsense. The third situation relates to the President's involvement in the investigation. I'm just going to give a little bit of a heads-up. We found no confirmation of the intervention by the President of Ukraine during this investigation. It is now most important in the conclusions of our committee. This refers to the arrest of Taras Whisperer. I'll immediately give the conclusion of the committee itself. The Commission has no doubt established that the nature of the crime in the activities of officials of the Ukrainian Security Service. So this detention, according to the commission, was illegal. I should also point out that the commission has undeniable evidence that this detention was illegal. Our conclusion is also confirmed by a judgment of a court that reached a similar conclusion. I want to explain the circumstances. On March 3, Whispering was delivered to the security service as a witness. The interrogation lasted until 9: 30 a.m. At the same time, the case was referred to the head of Section 3 of Vergella’s Bureau of Investigation. And at 9: 30 a.m. on the same day, Vergeles was ordered to retrain Whisperer. So he was already a suspect in a crime. On interrogations, SBA investigators found that the Whisperer’s fines lasted only 10 seconds. And the conduct was revealed by eyewitnesses. Without going into detail, I can state with absolute responsibility that we have questioned the comprehensive list of possible witnesses to the criminal acts of Whisperer. In each case, they denied giving such a witness to the Ukrainian Security Service in Ukraine. Our conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u105	Roman Mikhailovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u106	Our conclusion. Such witnesses, such witnesses or eyewitnesses, the language of the law, were not available, could not be in nature as I could speak. We have absolutely undeniable evidence of that. So that's the conclusion. There was a crime committed, not by Whispering, but by investigating the Ukrainian Security Service for an article that provided for the illegal detention of a person. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u107	Any questions for the reporter? Let's sign up, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin. Mr. Chairman of the Commission, I've been very familiar with the results of the commission's work and I have this question to you: have you concluded that this is the second conclusion that there is a sub-paragraph of two of you, or should the first Deputy Chief of Staff of the Horoshkovsky Committee on the entry of government officials into the criminal group that was delivered on March 4th at the Supreme Council meeting not be confirmed and should be considered entirely unfounded, please tell me, how do you, as a lawyer, as a lawyer, consider what legal action might be taken now, particularly to Horoshkovsky and to prevent this from happening in the future? This time. Second, what steps have been taken, and why have not yet been taken with regard to the head of the third department of the Vergeles Security Service? What is the final decision of the Whispering Court? Thank you for such an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u109	As for the first question, I have already mentioned that I believe that such statements, especially by the official, high-ranking official of the Ukrainian Security Service, are irresponsible, and more importantly, that at the meetings of the commission, Horoshkovsky himself was not able to name any member of this, which is the sound of a criminal group. Of course, there can only be human beings here in this case. I do not yet see any grounds for criminal consequences for Mr. Horoshkowski. As far as Whisperer is concerned, the court also established what I was saying was that his detention was illegal. But the Criminal Code of Ukraine provides that such acts are punishable. That is, if unlawful detention by law enforcement officials has been made known, they must be brought to criminal justice, criminal responsibility. I emphasize, I'm focusing again on this, our evidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u110	Lighter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u111	Our evidence that this delayed illegality is undeniable. I can stand this question in any court, in any country, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u112	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u113	Roman Mikhailovich! I think I've read carefully the documents that your commission has examined, but it seems to me that you didn't take into account one document that I have in my hands Presidential Decree 82-209 of February 12 on urgent measures. [[on energy security in Ukraine]] The second part of the ninth paragraph speaks of the lack of resolution of the issue of the legitimacy of transmission from Rosukrenerego NAK Naftogaz Ukraine of ownership rights to the PSG gas. I'm not going to read anymore because there's no time. After this gas had been swept away by the deputy head of the Khoroshkovsky Customs Service, he was removed from his post as head of the Ukrainian customs office, after which he was ordered to be arrested and taken into custody.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u114	Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u115	I got it. I would like to point out right now that, according to the mandate that we have received from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is set up in the appropriate decision that our commission was created by. The issue of ownership of this gas was not part of our competence. However, I would like to point out immediately that the criminal case was opened in 191 articles, according to a statement made by the Council of Directors of “Rosukre Energo”. However, the members of the commission are surprised that this legal person did not take advantage of his right under the Criminal and Procedural Code to contact the Ukrainian Security Service or the prosecutor’s authorities, demanding that he be recognized as a civil prosecutor in an open criminal case. Thus, in the absence of such a request from the applicant, it is clear that the members of the commission have some doubts as to the authenticity of the claim on which the criminal case was opened.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u116	People's deputy Leluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u117	Respected Roman Mihajlovich, the country in the best traditions of the 1930s, observed, firstly, the seizure of a state institution by another state institution, which protected a third state institution. Man, Taras Whisperer's Toby was in a car all night, as I said, in the best traditions of the 37th year, interrogated, requalified and so on. Tell me, please, someone has been responsible for these lawlessnesss and will they be borne in the future, do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u118	Obviously, I'm talking about all the details of this really, really weird thing, because it really resembles the '30s, and there's no way, there's no time to talk. I thank you for reminding us all of this. Of course, for example, they drove the Whisperer himself in the car for a few hours without explaining to him where they were taking him, and he had no idea what was happening to him. What was happening at NAK Naftogazi, it seems, is based on operational information, some threat to investigators who are conducting procedural actions there. We're asking you to name the source of the operational information itself. Security Services are refusing. So I am deeply convinced that this matter should become a signal. So we have to attract, we have to ensure that criminal responsibility for the violation of procedural rights is attracted. Procedural rights are a basic, protective mechanism either.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u119	People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u120	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I have also drawn my conclusion and conclusion from your report that there really was a criminal group, but it did not exist where the charges were made by those who illegally detained Whisperer. That is, the criminal group is the ones who illegally detained him, and he has his organizers, his directors, and the directors who managed the work. And it was the same source that you still couldn't find. And this criminal group has set its goal, as we can see, the struggle against the government, with the prime minister who defended national interests, by the way, not only in this case, but also in many others, in the example of the shelf and so on. So I have a question that I'm going to ask you again, maybe with our colleagues. Will anyone be held responsible by this criminal group for these actions?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! I'm going to draw your attention to the ruling that everyone makes without exception to the members of the commission of inquiry. We propose to refer the material to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Again, the evidence is undeniable. In case I say immediately, in case the Supreme Council doesn't do it, I'll do it on my behalf as the head of the commission of inquiry. And, of course, the prosecution is supposed to bring criminal responsibility to the people who committed the crimes. In addition, it is suggested that we listen to the preliminary information on the case by the Attorney General of Ukraine two weeks after receiving the material. I appeal to you to support this determination so that we can really put all the dots above "and".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u122	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u123	Andrey Pavlovsky's House of Julius Timoshenko. Mr. Roman! Of course, we have to go to the Attorney General's Office to find out what the commission is. At the same time, the question is that the commission didn't fully investigate the role of management of the SBA? And, in particular, one of the first deputies in the matter? Because clearly he has certain, let's say so, and commercial interests in this matter. Unfortunately, these conclusions are not found in the work of the commission. What do you think should be taken care of, in fact, of the role of this first deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u124	Mr. Andrey, you know very well as a member of this committee that we've been asking questions to investigators who have been showing up before our commission. Have any of the officials of the Ukrainian Security Service been involved in the investigation? At the same time, we may even have crossed a certain line when they were reminded that if they gave evidence, true evidence that officials were involved in the course of the investigation could have mitigating circumstances for criminal responsibility that illuminated them. They all spoke without exception of the fact that there was no interference from the U.S.A.’s management. From a legal point of view, we had no other option than to come up with the conclusions we came up with. Although it is clear that I also share your doubts as to the authenticity of the witnesses just as to whether they intervened in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u125	Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u126	Jaroslav Kenzior, “For Ukraine!” Roman Mikhailovich, as much as I remember this whole scandal that you're reporting today, has your group investigated the circumstances that are common to all. We have here, I recall, and in the Supreme Council we have found that for a long time all requests to the Customs Service, to Naftogaz Ukraine, to the Security Service, to the President's Secretariat, with the request or request to provide the documents to be obtained, these structures, Naftogaz and customs, have expressly refused to provide the relevant documents. Whether it is such a refusal to provide documents or not has provoked such acts of the Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u127	That's right, Mr. Jaroslav, exactly the opposite. The Commission had all the NAC “Naftogazu Ukraine” documents and the energy customs related to the issue. All documents, without exception, are part of the material of the case that was collected by our commission. Instead, the Ukrainian Security Service has refused to provide us with copies of our numerous demands, although under the law we had the right to have the originals ourselves, copies of the procedural documents have refused to provide us with these documents contrary to the current legislation, referring to the mystery of the investigation. So you're right, but exactly the opposite. If anyone has prevented this case from being investigated, it is the authorities that have discovered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u128	Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? There's a need. Let's sign up, please. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I'm not a fan of the methods of doing today's Ukrainian Security Service simply because we see this powerful tool of state politics in Ukraine gradually transforming into some kind of building of the political world at the President's Secretariat. We must return the functions of this Ukrainian Security Service, provide the people who work there with a normal salary, social protection, and housing and social security. Then we can ask them a job. One more. Roman Mikhailovich once again proved that the effectiveness of our temporary commission of inquiry is zero. It was a lawyer's speech, you'll excuse me. Yesterday there was one prosecutor, the other one there was a lawyer the same way. Where is the causal link? So it's a wild situation, and all of a sudden, we're going to have some kind of action that's infuriating us. Roman Mikhailovich, your honor, you'd go to this one. Now, you have a general of the B.B.U., here's the second general of the B.B.U., you'd ask, at least you know what operational information is, and who should you give it to, who's given the operational information to, the investigators? Nobody. You conclude here: “Operative information that seems to indicate a threat to life and health” — you are this “operational information” you have seen? It appears to be a threat. You haven't seen her, you don't know her, operational information -- no intelligence, no operational information -- no criminal investigation, no police, no one gives it to anyone, no one has the right to do it, it's operational information, and no sources are divulging it. And one more thing. Please take a look at the name of this commission: “Contravention by officials, leaders of the Constitution of Ukraine”. Where, then, was the violation of the Ukrainian Constitution? It's some kind of accounting. We're trying to replace ourselves with law enforcement, law enforcement, security. That's what I understand now, because the commission's detention was illegal. But it was illegal, was it undesirable? Now, what will this commission and other commissions analyze all steps taken by the Ukrainian Security Service? Are they going to replace her? And you know what bothers me? As soon as the interests of our oil - gas barons, or oil - gas princesses get in the way, there's a scandal and they're turning around and trying to join our special forces. Dear colleagues, if we want to build a strong, stable, predictable Ukrainian state, let's worry about the development of the State's institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u130	A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I'm continuing our work, we're discussing a report from the Interim Investigation Commission. The word is given by Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u132	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear friends, when we listened to the report that our colleagues spoke with, I immediately asked a few questions. Mr. Roman said that the commission was only responsible for the questions raised by the Supreme Council. It really is, I admit it is. But if a commission made up of very important people finds other violations, it is certainly necessary to react. There are separate definitions in court practice. That are directed, or individual approvals, that are accepted in the event of detected violations, which were not actually the subject of a judicial review, but were found to be on the move. So in this case, I'd like to ask the first question: "What is the role of the BSB in our society?" I would say, first of all, in compiling the personnel, to allow things like this, as it turned out to be with the ignorant Kislinsky, who, just because he was watering the dirt of the Prime Minister, became a substitute for the head of the BSB, or with Horoshkowski, who is actually only doing his business. How can he be the first deputy director of the BSS? Because he will defend the interests of Rossukrenerego and his business, not the interests of the state. And what I'm saying is that I've been here many times and I've been talking about the completely commercial activity of the deputy director of Mrs. Knive's B.O.B., who works all her life next door, hand in hand with Yatzenuk. They went through several steps in their work together. Today, it plays a role in the BPO, usually as a storekeeper and so forth, which once occupied the BPO. I am also shocked by the construction work of the Ukrainian Security Service, which is based on areas that were formerly assigned to the U.S.A. Security Service Academy and many other facilities. So when the Naftogaz Ukraine teams break into NAK, I realize that this is far from the public interest there. And the U.S. would be better interested in how they were issued by the National Stock Exchange company Nadra Ukraine, 19 licenses when Mr. Edward was running the company. put there by the manager of the day. The steward of the then Department of Nature Protection, Mr. Vasil Jarty, and so forth. That would be more interesting, I think. I would also like to point out that the commission did not show or tell who is the real shareholder of “Rosukreenergo”. At first, it seemed to have a name very similar to the President’s name, only other initials, later found that part of the shares belonged to unknown citizens and to the forerunner. Well, I think we should find out. Also to find out why the head of regional customs was arrested while he wasn't committing any crime, and who was punished by the SBU? So I would have offered not to close the activity today, not to finish the commission, not to settle too many questions, but to find them out, in order for the Ukrainian Security Service to be Ukraine’s Security Service, not individual individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u133	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Peter Cibenko, Ukrainian Company faction, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. You know, respectable colleagues, really, it's a wild story. If something similar had happened in one of the civilized countries, of which Ukraine today is taking an example, perhaps the names of those who were involved in this sad story, society would have forgotten long ago. We still have it. What does this account reveal? Well, first of all, the drowsy non-professionalism of Ukrainian security personnel. I want to agree with the thesis that I have heard on a number of occasions today, to my profound belief that there is absolutely no human policy in this state structure. It's nothing to be surprised about. Indeed, if one of the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service today has glorified himself, the ministry, and Ukraine by forging a diploma. Well, as they say, we're going nowhere. You know, after this story that was reported to us today by the head of the interim commission of inquiry by Mr. Zvaric, it's probably already a question of the need to rename the service as a danger service for Ukraine, because indeed, when one state structure by means of its power units storms another state structure, they say, already talk about nothing. And another thing that these events, which have been reported today in the report of the head of the interim commission of inquiry, testify to is that the service has already, as they say, acted on behalf of the President of Ukraine according to the principle of “what you want”. And I've gotten to the point that we're already discussing today. And it's not just a case, it's already a system. And remember another story about falsification or falsification, resuscitation, if you want, of famine in the 1930s. We are. All the press and media have already raised the information that has become the acquisition of all of Ukraine, when events that have taken place outside Ukraine, particularly in some parts of Russia, or even the United States, appear to have occurred in Ukraine's famine, and I would point out again, unfortunately, this is not unique. Accidents. So what I'm saying is that the faction of the Ukrainian Company supports that draft ruling that was proposed, it really contains a minimum of what should be contained, i.e. the mandate of the Attorney General's Office to consider the facts, the materials that became the acquisition of this interim commission of inquiry and to give them an appropriate legal assessment in accordance with what is contained there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u135	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u136	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'm addressing you, and I'm calling on the present leaders of the Security Service, who are here, very important people, and I'm calling on security officers who are not present in this room to say that the activities of any law enforcement structure in this country should be based clearly on the Constitution of Ukraine. Today’s consideration of the matter showed that this was not the case in the ministry. The speakers here spoke of a vital role in the implementation of the Normal Security Service. The implementation of the normal powers provided for by law and the Constitution, if they had a normal, consistent State staff policy. But we have to give the mechanisms to do that with you. Did we adopt that law on the Security Service, the new edition that I proposed from this rostrum? We didn't accept it, did we? They didn't. And so they gave us the opportunity today to show that hemlock to rise to the highest heights. Didn't one dozen or one hundred professional people leave the Security Service after they saw that the deputy service manager was being appointed as a whole by persons like acidics, or like Mr. Durdinac? That is why our role and shortcomings are serious, Parliamentary, that parliamentary control of the Security Service is absolutely not established, as it is in other countries. Now with regard to the legality of criminal cases. For most of them, the court ruled -- there were three cases -- that they were. Cases have been dismissed. I'd like to address the head of the committee. There are inaccuracies in the report, these inaccuracies are too serious. It is written that the investigation is continuing and, instead, the Schewchenkov Rysud of Kiev’s decision to investigate the case has been rescinded, and they have been left in force by the Court of Appeal. I would like to refer to other inaccuracies, which are written here, especially what seems to have been installed, from the explanation of Horoshkovsky, who was given to him by the team of Átivajchenko. But Nadravichenko wasn't in town at all - and he couldn't give a team like that. That's why I'm going to vote in favour. I definitely do not want us to write anything with inaccuracies. I am firmly opposed to turning commercial dispute into criminal cases with the political sign as it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u137	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u138	Mikhailo Kossov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Party “Reforms and Orders”. The weekly “Glavred” last week asked all presidential candidates to answer a number of questions. One of them is: “What first three things will you do when you become President of Ukraine?” Sadly, Viktor Janukovic refused to answer these questions. But Julia Timoshenko said the first thing she would do was explore the links between Rosukreenergo and the government. The other one. That's what it is about the Black Sea shelf. And the third. Corruption in the financial sphere, including in the administration of the National Bank of Ukraine. It is quite obvious that all of these three matters are the most important matters of the present state, and perhaps that is why this brutal war of destruction is going against this single candidate of the Presidents – Yulia Timoshenko. I have already quoted this decree of the President of Ukraine, which states that the transfer of this quantity of oil, which is in underground gas deposits, has been transported “Roskre Energo” illegally. And if it's illegal, then it's clear that in the President's opinion, it's obvious that Taras Shepiteko, who blurted out this amount of gas, committed a crime, according to the President. That's where this whole story starts. And I'm very sorry, Mr. Roman, that you didn't actually start this story from this document, because it's the most important thing in this situation. And the last. In one of our television broadcasts, our entrepreneur, Dmitri Firtash, acknowledged that he owns the shares in the Ukrainian part of “Rosukre Energo”. But in the media, I had to read that not all shares were owned by Firtash. That part of them was given to the forerunner as nameless. Who are the owners of the nameless shares that own part of the “Rosukreenergo” and whether these hands that are in front of the TV cameras say that they did not steal, at least they know whose hands the “Roskreenergo” shares are in. I think they know. And I think this case is going to be open.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u139	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u140	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! We need to understand clearly why situations like this arise when we were forced to form a temporary commission of inquiry. They are due to the fact that Ukraine is living in a period of redistribution of property and to the plundering of property that was created by the great Soviet people during, during, Soviet times. What is it? Is that the same main reason why this is happening? What is the greatest threat to Ukraine’s national security and defence today. Ukraine’s greatest threat to national security and defence is disregard for the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. And we see, for example, why these problems arise and how the authorities work, we see that one authority, state authority, is at war with another with the state structure, which is because in Ukraine there is neither the Constitution nor the laws of Ukraine. That's not supposed to happen. How will the work of this Temporary Commission of Inquiry end? As a result of the fact that in Ukraine, as I said, neither the Constitution nor the laws of Ukraine are working, it will end, unfortunately, in nothing. And it's going to end with just a couple and all, all the effort will go into the whistle of that train that was carrying this particular problem. I would like to say what we, parliamentarians, must do to the entire people of Ukraine. First of all, let us go back to the realities of our lives and realize that this is not the way our country can live, when it is a country that is governed by concepts and when it is governed by interests. We need to ensure that the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine are implemented. When will this be done? When the entire great Ukrainian people vote in turn for the left-wing bloc and for its candidate, Petra Mikolaiovich Simonenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u141	School of Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u142	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Radios and TV sets! It's clear that this little problem is already a little distant in time, we've got a little bit forgotten, we've got to remember the reasons for the commission of inquiry. But this did not go away from the point of view. Well, let's figure out what the problem was. The Ukrainian customs office sweeps the Ukrainian gas and sells it to Ukrainian citizens. So you don't have to understand here, the state is a citizen, because most of the public gas consumers are citizens and at least only those enterprises that buy it in the state. What is the real problem? When it comes to disrespect for private property and its removal, it must be understood that this gas, which was illegal, was an illegal attempt by the Rosukrenergo company to adopt. And it was never owned by the “Rosukrenergego”. That's it. I don't want to go into detail here. All of them, if anyone does not remember, will be confirmed by God with him who remembers my words. But the problem is different. Those who organized the NAK Naftogazu storm – the Ukrainian Security Service; those who gave instructions to protect investigators from what is not known. It's probably from the same perpetrators who are supposed to take our autonomy. We have now in Ukraine, you know, two autonomys -- Crimean Autonomy and between mountain autonomy. Perhaps someone there in the same plans was to do so, but these plans lived in only one and not a perfectly healthy head. So no one really tried to stop the investigators. It was an attempt by the Ukrainian Security Service to intimidate NAC Naftogazu workers, and, by the way, it was with consequences because NAK Naftogazu, an accountant, died of a heart attack because of the absolutely unmotivated total pressure of the Ukrainian Security Service on her, on her loved ones and on her children. This fact, by the way, was established and confirmed by the commission I was a member of. And I would like to point out that this fact should continue to be investigated. And here was a representative of the Party of the Regions speaking about what operational information might not have been given to us as a commission. It was not necessary to prove the absence of an element of crime. The absence of this component of the crime was proved by the investigators themselves, because they were unable to establish the crime itself, not what they consisted of, they were unable to establish the crime, the fact. And that's what they proved to us on the commission. There was no crime, nothing at all. It's just that the Ukrainian state was given the Ukrainian gas. But even if someone did view it as a criminal act, they were unable to control it properly and to protocolize it. So I would like to stress that we need to support the commission's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u143	Scoobashevsky Stanislav Valerianovich. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, respectable Alexander Vladimirović! Today we are witnessing another cynicism of power. But I will not understand the position of the Faction of BUT and Roman Mihajlovich, although Roman Mihajlovich can be understood, because de jure he is still in our Ukraine, and de facto he has long been a BUT member. You see, to date, we have four strong institutions in the State: the BSB, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, and, let's say, the National Bank, because the National Bank also depends on the security of the country. If you approach an impartial approach, not for political reasons, but from the country's point of view, who should be removed, first of all, the heads of the BSS, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, the Ministry of Defence or the Nutzbank? I think after yesterday's discussion of the Lucenco Commission, a hundred per cent of voters have said that long ago the Minister of the Interior needs to be removed, long ago, because he is going to embarrass the country. It's ruining the MVD system. The militias have been asking for a long time: forgive us, we are ashamed, we were proud when Kravchenko headed the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But why didn't they get rid of why they didn't remove the minister? Yes, because the Minister of the Interior, contrary to the Constitution, has sworn to serve and serve Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko. But hundreds of thousands of honest policemen will serve the state. Why is it the S.B.I., the bad attorney general, the minister of defense, the head of Natzbank? That these people have a conscience! There's a conscience! And they understand that they have been appointed to serve, not the Prime Minister, but the President, but the State. I'm not idealizing it. There are a lot of shortcomings in the BSS, and there's something to criticize, and there's a lot to criticize, and there's a lot to criticize, and there's a lot to criticize, Stelma. But they have one plus: they're not attached to someone's leg, they're attached to the state's body! And bad or bad, but they work side by side. That's why you're pissed off right now and let's take a picture of Stelmak, and let's take a picture of the Attorney General, and let's take a picture of Nadvajchenko and so on. Therefore, from our perspectives, we believe that the report of the Chairman of the Commission and the Commission itself, in the analysis of the Commission itself, is a political subtext, and we propose that we call on the House not to vote. I repeat: in all the shortcomings in the SSS, with all the shortcomings in the Ministry of Defence, these leaders must complete the change of power to the Bank. And the servants, for the four forces ministries to serve the Prime Minister, will never be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u145	It's a closing statement. Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u146	Very short. First of all, Mr. Jaroslave would like to remind you that the commission was working at the time of the current legislation, under which we had the right to receive all procedural documents, I stress, including the document on which the search and investigation was opened. We didn't get those papers. But just because I think Parliament should have such powers, I will support the bill introduced by the first deputy leader of your faction, Mr. Ephraim, to return these powers to the interim commission of inquiry. As far as the Constitution is concerned, it is also a matter for our committee to conclude: “Illicit detention of a person”. [[Listen, please!]] This is a violation of the Constitution. I'd like you, my dear fellows, to understand that until we force the law enforcement authorities to respect procedural legislation, until then there is no basis for talking about democracy in our country. And so again I appeal to you: make a case of it, make an example of it so that there are no more such cases in Ukraine. By the way, whether I'm a de jure member of one faction or a de facto member of another faction. I'm not going to call it a last name so I don't have to give it a chance. But, Mr. Michael, while you understand those members of your faction who were members of our commission, who, without exception, voted in favour of our commission's decision? There's no party membership here, there's objective data here. Once again, the evidence of a crime committed by officials of the Ukrainian Security Service is undeniable. I can prove it in any court. If you want, I can show them to you so that you can see for yourself. And lastly, for the President's intervention, I can't be guided by any ideas, and the members of the commission couldn't do that either. In an effort to establish the truth, we questioned whether we had listened more faithfully to the testimony of a number of individuals. We have no reason to talk today about the President's somehow interfering with the matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the decision-making process. The Ukrainian National Deputies introduced a draft Order on the Report of the Interim Investigation Commission. I'm putting the vote on the basis of the draft Supreme Council regulation. [[Registration number 4587]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:58:10]] For-187 The decision is not taken. The commission from tomorrow ceases to exist. [[B in m in s a l in]] A report by the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the poisoning of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, and on the reasons and identification of those responsible for delaying criminal proceedings and transferring the materials to court is under review. Reported by Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, as you know, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine has been conducting a criminal investigation for almost five years in the criminal case of 491361, which has been violated on the basis of an assault on a candidate for President Yushchenka’s office. The course of the investigation was widely publicized outside Ukraine and gave rise to numerous insinuations about the events that took place in 2004 with a citizen named Yushchenk. During the commission's activities, 14 meetings were held, 30 persons were interviewed, 200 requests were made to state authorities of various forms of ownership of various institutions and over 150 documentary materials were required, and expert research was initiated. The commission sought the cooperation of Viktor Andrievich Yushchenka. The latter ignored our appeal, and instead the official of the President’s Secretariat gave a formal letter. Despite the opposition from the Attorney General's Office today, the parliamentary investigation has established the following. A criminal case was committed on September 21, 2004. During the trial conducted by the Attorney General's Office, no data were found to indicate that in September 2004 a dioxin was deliberately poisoned by a candidate for President Yushchenk's post. In this regard and on the basis of sufficient objective data, on October 22, 2004, the senior investigators of the Attorney General’s Office were closed on the basis of article 6, paragraph 1, of the Criminal Procedure Code, section 1, of the Criminal Code. That is, in the absence of a crime. On December 11, 2004, Henprocuror Shokini's deputy criminal order was canceled without sufficient grounds, and on December 13, the case was taken up by the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, where it is today. For five years, society has been misled by the statements made by the many leaders of the Henprocuratorium and the BPO, as well as by the citizen of Yushchenka, about the alleged detection of the crime and the detection of the perpetrators. A criminal case from the moment of renewal and investigation until now remains a fact. That is, there are no persons in the case who would be involved in the commission of a crime. The charges in the course of the investigation have not been brought against anyone; no one is still in the suspect’s status. The following have failed to identify not only who and when poisoned Yashchenka but not even proved to be a deliberate, criminal, or accidental introduction into the body of the victim. Since 2007, Klimovic has been assigned to another task force under the leadership of Klimovic. Since the appointment of Klimovic, the head of the task force, in spite of the requirements of the law on completeness, completeness, and objectivity of the pretrial investigation, has been dealt with in one direction, the only one who is bound by the victims themselves and their surroundings to develop a version of the event, namely, deliberate dioxin poisoning, which seems to have had a place called 5.09.2004 during dinner at the hands of the former Deputy Security Service of the Ukraine of Satsuka. Why was Klimovic appointed as head of the task force? The commission sought this answer and found that during the criminal investigation, 009188-9, according to the burglary of Zhelevov's citizen, investigator Klimovic had repeatedly ignored the victim's two-year appeal for threats and misappropriation 52. Ukraine’s 1 KPC did not take precautions against the victim. As a result, in July 2001, she was killed. Already in the course of the investigation of a criminal case committed by the murder, other investigators were given evidence of the abuse of Klimovic in their duty position, resulting in the death of a man. In the criminal case number 05 and so on, Klimovic allowed gross violations of the law in force as a result of which three persons were acquitted. In the course of the court’s investigation of the case, the court found that evidence had been falsified, including involvement as a understood and interrogated dead person who died a year before being questioned. Ignoring the Constitution and the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine by Klimovic led to the prosecution being forced to drop the charges in court, with the defendant sitting for more than two years at the S.I.O. Only by the intervention of the 2009 commission on the falsification of evidence in this case, which was investigated by Klimovic's Attorney General's Office, has the criminal case been violated, and only by fact, not against the designated commissions and the specific persons who forged these investigation protocols. Thus, it should be noted that, within five years, only two criminal cases were brought before the head of the investigative group after the poisoning, the investigator Klimovic. The investigation into the case of Yushchenk's poisoning, in violation of article 31 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 187 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, by systematically disregarding the relevant court procedure, illegally violated the secret of the telephone conversations of 18,000 citizens, including politicians and Ukrainian national MPs. The Commission concluded that, illegally without the court’s permission, Klimovic, after receiving information from cell - phone operators about the telephone connections, had effectively placed these citizens as suspects. Please tell me if you can imagine that 18,000 Ukrainian citizens are involved in Yuschenk's poisoning. On these facts Klimovic was informed by the General Prosecutor’s Office about the abuse. Unfortunately, there is no reaction. The purpose of the pretrial investigation is not to obtain information that is of evidential importance, but to gather basic information about political actors and responsible officials of various branches of government. Yes, in an interview of 23.06.2009 on Thema, Klimovic stated: “A great deal of information has been accumulated regarding many extremely influential people. Before the election, she has no price. Its publication threatens to turn at least a few presidential candidates into political corpses. Who's behind this while I'm still silent, but if they're too hot, I'll say it." Please tell me, isn't this an open blackmail from Klimovic? The fact is, too, that the case involves a huge number of witnesses, including national deputies who did not have, have, and cannot have any bearing on the events being investigated by the Klimovic group. They're journalists, hockey players. Well, you saw it on TV. Information was ignored in the Attorney General's Office about the involvement of individual high-ranking officials at the Ukrainian Secretary's Office in trying to falsify evidence in this case. Yes, members of the commission were questioned. surveyed by Satsuk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, who reported that he had been contacted by representatives of the Secretariat, allegedly in agreement with the President of Ukraine. During Satsuk’s conversation in exchange for the guarantee of a return to Ukraine of the closure of all the criminal cases that he had committed, the renewal of his office and his office had been proposed to give evidence of his involvement in another person’s so - called poisoning. Of course, this person is one of Yashchenka’s political opponents. The commission immediately transmitted the information received from Satsuk to the Attorney General’s Office. She also provided all the materials that support this information. However, since it is in no way compatible with the widely accepted version, it has been silenced. There is no criminal case for the creation of evidence, and there is article 372 of the Criminal Code for up to three years. The interim Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sent 50 messages and information to the Attorney General, drawing attention to violations of the law and crimes. In any article 25 of the CPC, Ukraine has taken steps to eliminate violations and to involve persons who have been admitted to office before establishing the legal responsibility of neither the Attorney General nor the procurators under his authority to oversee the investigation is used. According to the U.S. Attorney General's Office, the law enforcement of the investigation by Henprosecutors is carrying out a specially designed unit. The interim commission of inquiry has established that such a unit has been removed from the task of overseeing the criminal investigation of poisoning. For a while, 2006-2007, the investigation was entrusted to Deputy Hen. Prosecutor Kuzmin. However, once Kuzmin directed the work of investigators to the need for work, not one, but all possible versions of the case were removed. Then the prosecutor’s supervision of the case is virtually absent. To date, neither the crime, time, place, manner, and others, nor the guilt of the accused of committing a crime, nor the motive, has been established by the Henprocurator’s investigation team in violation of article 64 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. If by pretrial investigation, as Hen points out. The procurator and his press services, which have been tested and processed in full, have a large number of versions, why so far no relevant procedural versions have been adopted and no relevant decisions have been made to refuse criminal offences under these versions, as required by Articles 97, 99 of the CPC. Obviously, so far, all possible and necessary versions have not been tested and are not fully operational, such as the version of the deterioration of health, the version of changes in appearance as a result of cosmetic or other medical intervention in the body, the version of food poisoning at the Dome in Main, the version of falsification of blood samples to simulate poisoning for the purpose of winning the 2004 elections. So far, the findings of the forensic expertise conducted in October have not been rectified.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u149	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u150	Give me time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u151	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u152	I've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u153	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u154	It was carried out in October 2004. Recognized by Ukrainian medical experts, who firmly stated that the deterioration of Yushchenka’s health after September 5 was due to the activation of a latent viral infection, which in the future appeared to be a typical change in the form of acute interstitial pancreatitis, erosive eloquent stomach sensation, and so on. Henprosecutor Medvedzko informed the community that the pretrial investigation had found that Yushchenka was deliberately poisoned with a toxic substance called dioxin. Such a statement does not have any factual or legal basis and is an open political statement, similar to the statements made earlier by Austrian physicians in Cimfer, Corpan, who also claimed that the expert way was to establish an assassination attempt. It is not possible to speak about the deliberate commission of a crime, including an assassination attempt, without establishing a specific person or persons who, in accordance with the CPC rules, have the right status, if not the accused, at least the suspect and there are no such persons in the Attorney General's Office. Therefore, it is wrong to claim deliberate poisoning. In this regard, it should be noted that Yushchenka’s claims that he, Henprocuror’s Ukraine and others are known to have three persons who are involved in his poisoning and who are hiding in Russia, who avoids their extradition to Ukraine, are a conscious introduction of society into deception. Because, according to valid Ukrainian legislation, it is not the President’s right to worry about a foreign state but the Henprocurator’s. But in order to do so, it is necessary to draw these persons and to have a reasoned determination that they are either accused or suspected. There's no such thing. To date, the fact remains that none of the individuals currently in Russia have been or are accused of being poisoned. They have been advertised in connection with the involvement of Yuschenk’s poison. And as far as they were concerned, no precaution was taken. Thus, according to the current Ukrainian legislation and international legislation concerning any person in the case of the poisoning of Yuschenk, the Henprocurator has not formally applied to the competent authorities of the Russian Federation for the extradition of their Ukrainian justice. Yes, one second.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u155	Thank you, Vladimir Leonidovich. Please continue with the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u156	Basically. “The Commission has received evidence that a certain number of persons close to the President of Ukraine, persons who are not particularly difficult to identify for the investigation for the silent slaughter of Yashchenk himself, deliberately falsified the fact of dioxin poisoning. The sole purpose of this was to influence the run of the electoral company in 2004. Especially in May of this year, members of the commission were interviewed by Zwania, who directly called the names of those who took steps to conceal the nonexistence of poisoning. To this end, all samples of Yashchenk’s blood were removed from the medical facilities to make it impossible to perform comparative analysis and to hide the absence of dioxin in his system. In September and October 2004, the victim had taken samples of blood that had not been studied in or outside Ukraine. According to Zwania, these samples were enriched with dioxin in the United States. It was their Austrian clinic manager, Cimfer, who sent them to research institutes, including the Dutch laboratory Biosystem Browser. Zwania’s explanation of the possible replacement of Yashchenk’s blood is also confirmed by other TSC materials, namely a phonograph of a woman’s telephone conversation with her husband, Roman. It turns out that U.S. security personnel were involved in the subject of poisoning. I'll just give you a little bit of that. Martha: “The difficulty is that I can not tell them much. You know, they ask me why you think they're poisoning him." Roman: “I understand. Well, yeah, but they're telling us right now that they need to talk to the intelligence people, because they even started talking to the doctors to see if it's related to the spine. Tomorrow two people from intelligence come to see us, these are people from a different level of intelligence, you know what I mean?" Martha: “Yes, yes, not from you.” Roman: “No, they’re outside. “ I don’t know Martha: “Yes, well.” Roman: “They’re U.S. intelligence experts, so they’re coming tomorrow and they’ll be there by 9:00 in the morning, and I’ll call you tomorrow. “ I don’t know For the purpose of identifying the voice of a woman named Martha, a phonoscopic study was carried out, and samples of the voice of Chumachenko Catherine were passed on to the commission. According to the expert, the woman’s voice, called Martha, belongs to Chumachenko Catherine. The Commission deliberately did not invite either Chumachenko or Romana to its meetings, as the Ukrainian Security Service should do so. If Roman is a Ukrainian citizen, what does he have to do with American intelligence? And on what grounds U.S. intelligence intervened in Ukraine’s electoral campaign. Thus, the following can be observed today. So far, the Henprosecutor has not brought charges against anyone. No place or time has been set for the commission of a crime or for the purpose of being poisoned. The other one. On the part of individual representatives of the Henprocuratorium, there is a massive falsification of the investigation. The country is bound by a version of deliberate poisoning. Society is deliberately deceived. The Commission suggests recommending that the Henprocuratorship's leadership urgently change the composition of the task force and the head of the investigative and operational group, while at the same time violating criminal cases regarding Klimovic for the abuse. Crimes are allowed in investigations, both in previous cases and in the present. The other one. Recommend that the Office of the Attorney-General withdraw all necessary biological samples of Yashchenka for analysis and expertise in Ukraine based on the certified laboratory of the Dioxin Centre of the Institute of Ecology and Toxicology of the name Medveda. If necessary, engage foreign experts. According to the Cabinet of Ministers, such a laboratory meets all international standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u157	Please ask the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u158	I finished the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u159	Let's sign up. Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u160	Dear Vladimir Leonidovich, I have a question for you. After listening to your report, your commission, which clearly and clearly states that foreign intelligence, with the participation of Ukrainian citizens, was involved in the forgery, in your opinion, in this matter. Please tell me why the commission does not recommend to the Attorney General's Office that a criminal offence be committed and that the relevant actions of the Special Service, the Ukrainian Security Service, be carried out in relation to these persons, as there is a clear and clear picture here, of your reports that these people are involved in falsifications of this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u161	As a result of my limited time, I missed just this gap in the report. The Commission sent three referrals and all materials, including film, expertise to the Attorney General's Office, to the Ukrainian Security Service to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u162	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Leonidovich, you will recall that for a long time the Ukrainian national deputies visited the dining room, a buffet of the Supreme Council, after a statement by the minister of internal affairs that he was well - known for the names of the Ukrainian national deputies who had travelled across the border to the territory of our State of Dioxin, who had been poisoned by the President of Ukraine. You can imagine, and now we're walking with these people. Maybe he's got something in his pocket or something. You've named those Ukrainian national deputies, who are these bastards? We're here with them. We're going to the dining room together, and it's in the pocket carrying a bitch like this, a dioxin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u164	Let's not laugh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u165	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I ask that you speak correctly in the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u166	Actually, it wouldn't be as funny as it would be. Because, unfortunately, you remember these years 2005 - 200. Especially in 2005, after the Orange Revolution, when General Prosecutor Svetoslav Piscoun and Lucenko, and all the other leaders then shouted that they knew and investigated everything. In fact, I'm saying again, I'm not saying that today's Attorney General's Office is misleading society. This has been introduced by all since 2004. They say, Lucenka, by answering your question, Lucenko was telling the lie. I don't understand why he did it. And why did all the other people do it, because to this day they don't have what the family has, they don't have anything. Also, if you remember, in 2004, Yashchenko was sick when he was away from dinner. He puked. At that time, this vomit was found. She was investigated. And there's nothing in the body, there's nothing in it, there's no evidence of dioxin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u167	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u168	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear reporter, perhaps my question will come out of your answer to the previous question. And yet, I do know a few of your statements, which are somewhat different in terms of establishing the very fact of poisoning, from today's point of view and your report, after all, as you think, was the very fact of poisoning, or was it a myth? And the second question. Tell me, please, I'm already asking you this, not as the head of the commission of inquiry, but as a national deputy, but as a person who worked for a long time in the power structures. Please tell me how you appreciate the prospect of exposing this crime, which has been or has not been, given that the obvious person around whom everything is going to happen will soon cease to be President of Ukraine, and perhaps some interest in this matter will be lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u169	First. Starting with the first commission and today's commission, I'm now saying that there's no evidence of intentional criminal poisoning on the board, not in the prosecution, not in the police, not in the B.O.S., not in any of our forces. As far as just poisoning is concerned. I would not like to speak on behalf of the entire Supreme Council today, because I am the chairman of the commission. And that's why I'm proposing in the recommendations of the Attorney General's Office that we do our analyses in Ukraine, not run abroad, because in Ukraine today, we have created a first-class laboratory for 40 million dollars, which is not in much of any country in the world. There they gathered all the equipment they needed. And so it's not very difficult to answer your second question right away, to do these tests and close the case once and for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u170	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u171	Mikhailo Kossov, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko", Party of Reforms and Orders. Dear Mr. Sovkovic, I think you're acting not even as the head of the commission of inquiry, not even as an enlightened lawyer, but as a man politically engaged. You know how you treat Yushchenk, and we all do, but the situation has happened to the presidents. And when you talk stubbornly, "Jushchenko citizen," you know, it does move the accent. And then, well, I listened very carefully to you. You've come to the attention of this representative from the Attorney General's Office who's in charge of this case. And I can totally agree with you. But I totally can't understand, and what is there, there's no one else in the Attorney General's office? That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u172	Please, the microphone of the Kosovo MP, finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u173	Well, last of all, the last one is very short. Well, was there poison or was there poison? If there is no clear answer to this question, all such assumptions are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u174	The report made it clear that there is no evidence of Yushchenk’s poisoning today. No commission has been found today. Of course, the Attorney General's office didn't show it to the committee. In addition, the commission found evidence to the contrary that the poisoning was not and was falsified. As far as engagement is concerned. Well, I don't know, maybe I don't really like Yashchenka as much as anyone here, in the hall or you, but believe me, there were representatives on the board of all the factions of the Supreme Council. And all of them, without exception, no one voted against this report, none. These are your representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u175	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u176	Please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u177	Dear Mr. Volodymyr! Did you refer to Roman and Martha's phone calls? I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the audio recording of this conversation in the Attorney General's office of inquiry. So now I'm telling you, although I've told you this a long time and a few times. Here, in the session room, I'd like to state. Roman is me. It was my conversation, and it was not with Catherine Yushchenko, but with my brother, Dr. Martha Lopatinsky. In order to make sure that you can make sure that you didn't invite me to give a witness on the committee, I want to show you the website of Dr. Martha Lopatinski's website right now. You could easily open Google, write "Lopatinski" and you could see that in that. And you don't mention the first words in this entry: “I ask to speak to Dr. Lopatinski.” To see if you can find out, please take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u178	Stojko Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u179	Dr. Lopatinski's website.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u180	No, I believe you have a sister.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u181	That was my conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u182	Let's not argue, sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u183	The question is asked by Stojko Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u184	Dear reporter, I want to begin by reminding me today of a minister, the kingdom of heaven, when he, after the murder of Viacheslav Crnovola, said it was a road accident. You, too, without documents, having any conversations there with either Romana and Martha, or the testimony of Zwania, talk about it. [[We know what's going on today.]] I'm afraid you've falsified intentional poisoning. [[I'll tell you now.]] Still, why do you say that? You're an ex-employee, officer of the service, don't you realize that without the documents, you have no right to talk about it? Don't be a clown, I'm sorry. Be a real politician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u185	You know, I've never been a clown, but as far as I'm concerned. I was a former employee, yes, and that's why I get to call myself Roman, Peter, Michael, Lopatin or Margarine. That's the first time. Secondly, the commission cannot reject the expertise that is on the committee that Martha is Martha, this is Catherine Chumachenko. We've sent him to the Henprosecutor's Office, have the Henprosecutor's Office conduct its expertise and dismiss it. And then the commission will call it what it is. I said in the report that we deliberately didn't invite either Martha or Romana, whether he's a citizen of Ukraine or a citizen of another country, because the commission's spying is not responsible, we don't understand, the SBA and the Attorney General's Office have to deal with it. And the question isn't to me, it's to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u186	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u187	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you a question. You noted in your report that the prosecutor's supervision of the case is currently missing. It's a very serious statement for being quoted here. Please tell me, is it now or not? That's the first question. The other one. You have noted in this report that the investigation of the Attorney General's Office is of a political nature. Do you not see in some of the statements made by the commission of inquiry a political character? And the third question. Have you considered, let's say, the version that if it's not poisoning, what can it be when this is a deterioration in your health when you have 20 operations and so on? That it might be because you're out, you're out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u188	Let's start with the first one. I say to you today that the Attorney General has commissioned the Attorney General for the Golmsch family, who has no relation to the investigation, to control the case, to oversee the case. Prosecutors who were to oversee the matter were not allowed there. And that's why I'm saying there's not enough of the complaints from the deputy attorney generals, the same Golomshi, in conversations with other prosecutors, there's no right to touch this case except Klimovic, otherwise she's hysterical and she's writing reports. The second question. I'm not going to speak, because we have no final conclusion to this day, except for the conclusion that was written by our academics in 2004, what is it with Yushchenk? In 2004, it was concluded, and it read. But you say our commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u189	It's easier. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u190	Please tell me what he should be like if we're talking in the Supreme Council. He must be purely legal, then the Attorney General must stand here. If it's a commission of inquiry, where? which is made up of representatives of all factions, then it must have a political tone necessarily.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u191	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Leonidovich. Let's sign up for a discussion. Let's sign up for a discussion. Have a seat, please. Please, sit down and sign up for the discussion. Young Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u192	A boy named Andrew. Deputies! A venerable Ukrainian community! Today we are discussing a question that has a huge resonance that has had a huge impact on Ukraine's development of our modern history. And I'm very sorry that we hear a report from the commission from the highest legislative body in Ukraine, and this report is more like a political order, not an attempt to assess at least an objective assessment of the situation that has taken place in our country. A number of questions arise. I'd like to continue with the question of Mr. Roman Welder. And how did Mr. Sovkovic get a speech from a member of the Supreme Council? Was that an audition? Then what services? - I have a question. Isn't it Russian intelligence sometimes? And isn't this really the structure that Mr. Sovkovic ordered the case that Mr. Sovkovic reported here from the rostrum? I have a question -- who paid, by the way, for that phone-talking expert? What kind of ministry, and what kind of person? I have information that Mr. Sovkovic himself once again paid for this expertise, which could ask a number of questions about the objectivity of this study. I have a key question when the world's leading doctors conclude that there has been poisoning of the Presidential candidate in Ukraine and this is even included as one of the encyclopaedic examples of the attempted murder of one of the most real candidates to the Presidents and the poisoning of dioxin, when we today want to convince all of us that this could have been the result of a cosmetic operation. It's, you know, it's huge blasphemy and it goes beyond morals. We remember all of us at that time the candidate for Presidents of Yushchenka, today’s President Yushchenk. We saw the condition of the individual. And today it's no longer a question of experts -- doctors from abroad who have been poisoned. And here, in the highest legislative body of our nation, we are allowing such speeches, which not only question this, but they are trying to blasphemously deny this fact, in fact, translate the discussion of this issue and the great personal tragedy, and most importantly, the question that had a huge global announcement, into some smile among the members of the Party of the Regions. I would like to urge you to remember not to translate the matter into a political order inspired from the Kremlin. I'd like you not to use this way of not using it here in the session hall, because it's humiliating not only you, but it's humiliating the whole of Ukraine and the Ukrainian state. And that is why I call upon all the deputies in my speeches to maintain the correctness and understanding of the fact that we are Ukrainian MPs, not the ordering agents of foreign intelligence, whose task today is to destroy Yashchenk. Let us be worthy Ukrainians and worthy citizens of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u193	I'd like to invite the People's Deputies of Chechtov, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with the statement made by Mikhail Kosivi that Viktor Andrejevic is not a citizen of Yushchenko, this is President of Ukraine Viktor Andrejevic Yushchenko. Therefore, the people of Ukraine must know the true cause of the deterioration of health, which has become a tragedy for President Viktor Andreevich Yushchenka. If you look at the position of the abuser - and the abuser receives information from the Attorney-General's Office, which is officially published in an interview, investigative commissions, in press publications, interviews with the people's deputies, the Internet, the public opinion was as follows. I am of the public's position, so simple as to say that what was said to be responsible for Satsuka is a false trail, a specially made false trail to distract President Viktor Andreevich Yushchenko from the true versions of the tragedy. Then there are two versions, two versions that are most frequently required and which, well, are most realistically perceived by the public. Unfortunately, the Commission has not yet made a clear definition. I'll call you what the public says, what two versions. Version one, or a sudden deterioration of Yushchenko's health for five years, is the result of poisoning him with the immediate surroundings of Yushchenko, by the way, then the immediate environment included both BUT and Our Ukraine, either as a single team or as a result of an incompetent cosmetic operation. Since there is no clarity to this day, and the public wants to know that it was the real cause of the tragedy for the President, I think it is necessary to continue with the work of this commission of inquiry and to bring Mr. Sivkovic to a logical conclusion that he should come out here and say that the result of the deterioration of Yushchenko's health is or that he should be poisoned by his immediate environment, an orange team five years ago, under the President's future rating, or that the consequences of a cosmetic operation are ineffective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u195	The National Deputy Arjewittin conveys the word of Zvaric. I'd like to have a word with you. Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Get ready for Kenzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, we periodically complain that the Supreme Council does not want to hear that the Supreme Council has certain powers, especially in the line of oversight functions of the Supreme Council, and we do not have the capacity to perform them. Among those control functions, in particular, the most powerful tool is the commission of inquiry. When I spoke to my investigating committee, I heard no criticism that the investigating committee was working on an unobjective basis, that it was drawing any unfounded conclusions or such. I would now like to make an argument in favour of the fact that the commissions that are being followed should be cancelled at all. Of course I'm saying this with a certain degree of humor. Because what I just heard gives me every reason to say it. I'm going to say one more time, the main one, I'm going to start with another. One of the main documents that the commission owns about Yushchenka not being poisoned is the recording, the phone record of the conversation between Roman and Martha. I never covered up the fact that I took blood and not just blood. Nails, hair, nail samples and the hair of Victor Andryovich Yashchenka to America for analysis. I was there trying to find anyone who could help me. About this fact, by the way, I also, Mr. Volodymyr, have spoken to you in the corridors. Not once. Practically asking that you call me as a witness when the temporary commission of inquiry, any one of them, including yours, had such authority. You didn't take advantage of it. On the contrary, you're filing an application on behalf of your committee based on one single argument: a telephone conversation between Roman and Martha. That the blood was enriched by the U.S. security forces. You do not mention in your report that in that recording of a telephone conversation, Roman’s words begin with the following question: Can I speak to Dr. Martha Lopatinsky? Basically, what the investigator does then, he tries to determine whether there is a natural person like Martha Lopattinsky in the first place. I've just demonstrated that it exists. She's a doctor. She's my brother, and I asked her to help me. That fact did not interest you, Mr. Volodymyr. Because if you were interested in him, you'd invite me to the committee. No confirmation that U.S. intelligence somehow enriched Yashchenk's blood with dioxin, you don't. Still, you make statements that have been made all over Ukraine. That's why I'm here saying from this high rostrum. You're just lying! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u197	National MP. Jaroslav Kendzior. Thus, Jaroslav Kenzior has a six - minute opportunity to express his position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u198	Dear fellow national MPs! You know, after listening to this so-called report of the MP's commission of inquiry in the execution of the personnel of Moscow's Chekist Sevkovich, you will surely find and understand the contents of this report on behalf of the commission, and you will inadvertently run into certain historical parallels. Consider how these services, which he served in faith and truth, and perhaps most certainly serve today, killed the leader of the Ukrainian nation of Konovalz. Remember how these same services, the predecessors of Sovikovic, killed Stephen Bandera. Recall how, in our modern - day modern times, he had just been killed as a national leader, the light of memory, Viacheslav Cnerovil. We still can't, someone's still saying it was just a car crash. And if you put Victor Yushchenk in this row, understanding, as it were, the love of the Kremlin for Victor Yushchenk today, remember the message of the President of the Russian Federation to the Ukrainian people and Victor Yushchenk. Remember others, as it were, the gestures of good neighbourly leadership from the Kremlin, and without any expertise, without any committees, looking at what survived, what Victor Andryovitch Yushchenko passed on, you will certainly come to the conclusion and say that these are the Ukrainian phobics, these special services of the state that are not willing to release Ukraine from its bloodbeds of Moscow, that is what it has made an attempt to destroy the new leader of the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian state. And when we realize today that all those who were directly involved in the original murder, as the original simple and genius was destroyed by Viacheslav Crnovola somewhere at dinner, it was possible for a man to share his dioxin. [[It's true, there was a slightly different specification.]] And when all the best labs are given, the most modern laboratories in the world are given. and medical experts, not Moscow's FSB, have concluded that dioxin is present and at such doses that a normal person can't stand it. [[There are doctors in this room, so they should have said it.]] And these perpetrators or perpetrators of this crime, today, are hiding in Moscow and like all criminals against Ukraine, let no court take place yet, because unfortunately they cannot be judged because their reservation in Moscow is forming the entire criminality. The reservation, already a quarter in Moscow, can be made of such, as it were, refugees from Ukraine. And so today, to question, Mr. Sovikovic, you as a person who may not know what aspirin is for, what aspirin people are using, you are today proclaiming such things as saying no signs and no evidence of poisoning. So if you do not even read medical reports, read an interview with the president of the state, Eugene Red. Read the interview by Katerina Yushchenko, wife of Viktor Andriyovich, you know, when a man knows he can't, as it were, see in his soul what was happening, how Victor Andriovich Yushchenka’s life was hanging on his hair. And today, to celebrate here all over Ukraine, people like that, if I could give you dozens of examples, then for this festivities, they die like dogs under the shadow. And it's going to be with those who took the crosses off, then the thunderbolts hit them, whether they were drowning or the cars were coming at them, that's exactly the same thing. May he live a hundred years, but the Lord God will punish him for such sanctification. And Ukraine today, going to the presidential elections, is also going to take this into account, why the Kremlin's leadership to Yushchenko is so furious, why its Kremlin resident here in the session hall and in Ukraine is inventing all these non-villages. He was talking about something he overdid or drank, and they found vomit, so that's great, you have an argument. You, as it were, your entire team is total vomit. Thank you. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u199	I invite Yuri Karmazin to prepare for Stoka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u200	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been very difficult for me to go through these years as to how the investigation will take place. It is difficult because half my conscious life has been devoted to investigating various crimes, including murder investigations. And I would like to say that it is on the issue of investigating the circumstances of the poisoning of the candidate for president of Ukraine, Victor Yashchenk, and of identifying the reasons and finding the persons responsible for the delay in investigating the commission of inquiry that has not moved a single step from what was a few years ago, to the great regret, to the great regret. What's more, I've been watching right now how the completely opposite camps reacted to the performance, let's say my colleague right now, who was speaking here from the rostrum. I think that's confirmed by some political alliance that exists. God be with him. I'd like to talk about the legal facts. This is an extremely acute question for society, in my opinion, that the report raised more questions than it answered. Obviously, one thing we need to hear from this rostrum of the Attorney General of Ukraine is what we need to hear, why we need to hear why arrows were being “translated” all the time, and for some time not only by one Attorney General, but also by one deputy, we have been told that known persons, established persons, are hiding in the territory of the Russian Federation, who avoid their extradition. But no charges were brought against anyone. What kind of extradition could there be? That is, the propaganda sounded from the mouths of the highest officials of this state — generals, generals of the army, and commanders. This is what happened. So I don't think we were quite ready today to listen to this information that's here. And if the report tells us about Roman and Martha's conversation, and there are even quotes, we have now, and we have long been at the disposal of our colleague Roman Zvaric. Why, then, are there no changes? What kind of expertise are we referring to? And the cost of that expertise being conducted in a state-owned expert institution, as far as I know. The criminal process requires that the evidence, including the material, be removed from the order he provides. We didn't see anything. We've heard versions, not facts. We have seen a political approach to this problem. I propose to hear a report from the Attorney General of Ukraine on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u201	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u202	And make a decision on that report. If the Attorney General says that there is no oversight of what we have accused him of, considering this case, that his claims were inadequate or his subordinates, then decide on the responsibility of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. All of it. The President of Ukraine himself cannot give a commission in his case, and he cannot comment on his case. It's absolutely, absolutely obvious. That's why we have to give the answer, but only after the Attorney General's report is here with full information, if you want to go to a private session of Parliament. But today we've upset the nation, not given it any answers to questions, and it's very embarrassing that we did it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u203	Let me get this straight. John Stoick, let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u204	Thank you. John Stojko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, I listened to Vladimir Sovikovic's speech, and I thought to myself, as they say, and if this were to happen, don't give God to Victor Yanukovitch at the time, would I be able to speak when I went out to the rostrum like this person who read the report? Of course not. And I think very few of you would. But you know, a person who doesn't have morals can probably say that. And he says it without anyone, without any thought, and what happens to him tomorrow, or his family, and so on. So we need to understand 2004 was not a simple year. Ukraine was on the verge of breaking down, and today we realize that even in 2004, when Sovkovic claimed that there was no poisoning immediately after that incident. It's really, well, he was doing a sense of work, someone's order. But we can't talk today, and we can't talk about who the customer is and who the performers are, because really, as I'm saying, the Attorney General isn't sufficiently qualified, but he's willing to move on. And so probably the shortcomings that are at work, and lately, as we already know the media, the Attorney General's office is going to a certain degree. Who is concerned? It is likely that the names will be named, and the customers will be named. God forbid. But I warn both Mr. Sovkovic and any other, honourable fellow MPs, let's not make ourselves, indeed, the people who will laugh at Ukraine because they listen to us as representatives of the Ukrainian people. They listen to us, and they want to follow our example. But if we fall to such a low fall we will go, this Parliament really does not have the right to exist. And that's why what happened is a great tragedy for both Ukraine and for Victor Yushchenk's family personally, and for him. And I think that if we're honest with ourselves, we have to say it all out loud. We're going to make sure that there are conclusions from the Attorney General. We'll do our best not to burn any of those candidates who went there today. Because Ukraine still cannot tolerate the act that is now. And, in fact, I am again addressing you, Mr. Volodymyr, as an officer. Have the honor. And what you're doing and making these statements is a disgrace to you. So let's be, in fact, those people who represent the Ukrainian nation among other parliamentarians of Europe and the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Vladimir Leonidovich, will you take the floor? Please, and your suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u206	Unfortunately, six representatives of “Our Ukraine” discussed the report with seven men. You know, I'm used to being represented, personally by Yashchenka, as soon as I'm not called. In 2004, a special headquarters was established, shouting, shouting, spitting, whatever they did. But the fact is, for five years, the investigation has not taken a single step. First. Not named defendants, not named. There's nothing in the investigation. The other one. The findings of the experts, our academics, which were made following a decree of the Attorney General's Office in 2004, are today unrepentant and procedurally not overturned. Why won't the Attorney General do that? Because he's scared. Third. Our commission, you voted, had no material security, this item was missing. So I, as the chairman of the commission and the members of the commission, including representatives of the various factions, paid various experts in fact from my salaries. Four. When a state institution that belongs to the Ministry of Justice, an expert, the commission can't doubt that, it has to hand it over to the Attorney General's Office and the Security Service to order its expertise and then make it comparable as a comparison of what it is. The expert on Chumachenko did. Institute of Forensic Medicine of the Ministry of Justice. The commission can't deny it. And last of all, what the speakers said. On the committee for today, what are the names of those spies that will be referred to as the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service? What an intelligence, RUMO military intelligence, or the CIA — the United States’ external intelligence — was involved and advised on the matter. And after that, it is only possible to draw further conclusions and surveys of the same national deputies. That is why I am today in order to satisfy everyone, to satisfy all speakers, including from “Our Ukraine”, on behalf of the entire committee, and we have voted unanimously to recommend that the Attorney-General's Office withdraw, in accordance with current legislation, national legislation, all the necessary biological samples of Yashchenka to carry out analyses and expertise in Ukraine, based on the certified laboratory of the Dioxin Centre of the Institute of Ecology and Toxicology of the name Medveda. If it's necessary to involve foreign experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u207	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u208	Recommend to the Chief of the Attorney General's Office that the composition of the head of the investigative and operational group should be changed immediately while the criminal cases concerning Klimovic are being investigated for the abuse, crimes committed in both previous and present cases of poisoning. These recommendations I now propose to the Supreme Council to vote as a Supreme Council ruling so that there will be no more inseminations. I ask the chairman to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have a few suggestions. I want to draw your attention. There's a commission of inquiry. I'll remind you it was an interim report. The commission, in accordance with the decree, operates until March 31, 2009. If there's an insistence, let's say we make a decision and finish the commission, I'm willing to put it in place. Because your proposal and Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin after hearing the Attorney General. So what are the other proposals, please? Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u210	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear colleagues! It seems to me that after listening to a colleague who reported on this issue, I have to write in a draft decree that the head of the lab put a member of the Party of Regions in charge of appointing a member of the Party of the Regions and allowing me to write down all the results of the analysis, as will be formulated by the Party of the Regions. So I propose not to break this comedy, but to stop the work of such a commission because it is extremely biased, it only performs an exclusive political order, and it wants to tell a complete lie about completely objective things, called black - and - white - black. Therefore, if the deputies have a conscience and, for a moment, can forget their political affiliation and vote on their conscience, we will insist that the work of this commission be suspended as destructive, since no further contribution is made to the establishment of the truth. Unfortunately, such realities and parliaments cannot continue to contribute to such realities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u211	Thank you. So, respectable colleagues, we have two suggestions. The first proposal of the commission of inquiry, read by Vladimir Sovkovic, and the proposal of Viáchislav Kirilenko, I will put both to the vote. Who's in favour of supporting the commission of inquiry's proposals, please vote. [[13:58:25]] For 177 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal by Viacheslav Kirilenka to stop the investigation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u212	Dear Mr. Mikolo! As we have already set a precedent today and yesterday, if the commission is not finished and you do not make any decisions, as it was, by the way, and with the commission I led, it automatically ceases its activities, there is no need for a separate decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The term of action of this commission is in line with the decision that it has already been made. Therefore, there is a need to close the meetings and say good - bye to tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-16-m0.u213	Unfortunately, Roman Mikhailovich, I cannot support you on a case-by-case basis, our commission has been created and is acting in accordance with the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the course of the year, so its term ends on March 31st, 2010. We immediately heard an interim report by Vladimir Sovkovic. I can ask the question and I can vote for the question, but unfortunately, the commission doesn't stop, and if we don't, we'll listen in a year. I am voting on the proposal that Viacheslav Kirilenko stop the commission of inquiry. Please vote. [[14:00:11]] For-47 The decision is not taken. So it's in line with the decision. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 9, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 38, Communists - 0, Litvina Block - 0, non-fractional - 0. So according to the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the commission of inquiry will continue to work, and we will hear its final report in a year, as foretold. Dear colleagues, I declare the morning session closed. It's committee work. There's a plenary meeting tomorrow at 10:00. We're working on today's schedule. So tomorrow, if the factions do not propose otherwise by common consensus, we will listen to the report of the Interim Special Commission on Reforming the Ukrainian Security Service. Good for you!
