ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:00:36]] There were 407 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning plenary session is open. Dear colleagues, brief information on the results of the work during yesterday’s plenary day. You and I have considered 20 issues of the agenda: 23 bills and 28 draft regulations. As a result of the review: two laws and 24 decrees were passed, seven bills were adopted on the basis of 14 bills and two draft decrees were rejected. This is the summation of our work yesterday. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we now have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of Ukraine’s national deputies. Please sign up. Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please. Catherine Samuelk gives the word to the national MP, Kzarykov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u2	Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished voters! Because, according to a hysterical statement from the Bank, the central media is silent about the progress of the All-Ukrainian “Jushchenko”. A suitcase. America," I have the honour of informing you, on behalf of the faction of the Ukrainian Compartium in Parliament, of the resonance that has taken place with the people and our voters. It is known that the action began on 10 February in Odessa. Early in the morning, a plane with red stars was boarded in front of the district government. The main ship is reserved for two passengers, President Yushchenko and his wife Kat. The first sign of the success of the action is the fact that as soon as the entire generality departs from the landing site, the militia's line-up, the force organs are photographed by a plane bearing the inscription Chamodan. The train station. America” with great joy and surprise, since the guarantor may not have been able to collect the items yet and the departure date remains open, we bought him an open-date ticket. At the same time, a telegram was sent to U.S. President Barack Obama requesting that Bush be employed, and in honor of Kay Chumachenko, who worked at the U.S. Congress, he was asked to prepare a vacancy at the U.S. State Service, and Yushchenko was invited to the villa by his associate Paul Lazarenko. In view of the market economy, the purpose of the stock is to sell tickets equivalent to that of Yuschenko in five copies. The country-wide record has been set. In Odessa, for example, a passing person in Lexus did not regret $5 in the equivalent currency of Yushchenko, and in Donetsk, Yushchenko got 600 bracelets from miners. The symbolic and intermediate outcome of the action. You know, when our deputies go into the administration to make demands, there are creaking doors open, and officials at all levels of government show the Communists “here he has us.” I can't help but focus on the troubles that go with Bank and Vladimirski. These are the intercepted wheels of the aircraft, and the setting up of an emergency situation, and the lawsuits against the court for suspension of the action. But I want to tell the President that he's got the muscle, including the political orders, and the meager salaries of our officers. They are like the main masses of people without hope living and waiting for order in their apartments and do not know what to say to their children tomorrow. I'm sure the muscle still remembers the bright images of Sagittarius and Djerjinsky today, and will never become hungry and forced invaders. In general, the action received massive support in Odessa, Herson, Nikolaevsky, Dnepropetrovsk, Donetsk, Lugansk, Harkovsk oblasts, the Republic of Crimea and the final point will be on Bank. The results will be held on Soviet Army Day, on 23 February, at the walls of the Presidential Administration. It is there that ship number 1 will arrive after a long journey, where the President will receive the voluntary ransoms collected from the people, which is where Yushchenko will receive the documents on the popular impeachment, where he will receive the popular prizes, including the Order of the Kamska Volta, and the degree to which the national interests of Ukraine are handed over to the Romanians for the alienation of the richest.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u3	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, may I have a word with Mikola Haritonovich Shersun?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u6	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u7	I'm asking the apparatus to put order on the balcony, get out of the premises of the Supreme Council of Foreigners! Please, your time is up. Come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u8	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. I would like to draw the attention of senior officials, first of all from the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, to the situation surrounding the Czartkov military airport in Ternopolska. From the initiative of representatives of the Ternopil district organization of the People’s Party, I visited this facility for days. I have to say with regret that the former first-class airport today resembles the shooting range of Andrija Tarkovsky's "Stalker". In the meantime, the Cortkov Airport was part of a list of special strategic military objects not only in Ukraine but also in the entire former Soviet Union. The length of the runway is two and a half miles [2 and a half km]. The airport, which served nearly thousands of personnel, had a technical capability to take off and land all modern types of military, transport, civilian aircraft, and propellers. He also had a whole set of infrastructure objects to support his operation. Today, all of this unique infrastructure is in a catastrophic state. Aircraft and other equipment are partially passed on to other units, and the rest is carried out as metal scraps. More than half of the concrete plates on the runway are thoughtlessly dismantled and sold out. Facilities for maintenance staff and technicians are in very poor condition, and part of the underground aircraft storage hangars have been used illegally, by the way, in local pig-keeping areas and in the cultivation of champions. The security of the airport is currently being carried out by the military component of the missiles based in Courtkov. Logical questions arise in this connection: How did an object protected by the military from strategically become an emergency? Why is it that today, in preparation for the Euro-2012, huge costs are being invested in the reconstruction of some airfields, while others with much better runways are being dismantled and sold in bulk and split? By the way, they were dismantled from the Cortkov Airport of the plate, which was only 800 dollars six feet by two feet, which is very cheap for such a plate, but it's too expensive for our far-flung state. After selling the runway today at a ridiculous price, we will tomorrow spend thousands of times as much money to recollect a similar resort. Such criminal mismanagement cannot continue, urgent measures must be taken to ensure that the facilities of the Cortov military airport infrastructure that have yet to be preserved, preserved, preserved, and preserved until the time of the best that is yet to come. Please consider this a request to the Minister of Defence of the country and ask the presiding officer to give an appropriate protocol order for its formulation and direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u9	People’s deputies Kirilenko and Moses pass the time on to the national deputy Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, this intellectual poverty of a faction of communists who have found nothing else to mention what they are constantly being addressed to them is the Moscow agencies, this branch of the Moscow word in the Ukrainian Parliament, which they represent here. But they remembered very clearly when Ukrainian patriots said to them everywhere and every step of the way: “Ukraine, suitcase, train station, Russia, Kremlin doesn’t like it.” So, small, so to speak, is your intellectual gain today. And it's to go to the rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament, a person who in a foreign language screams from the Ukrainian Parliament and glamours the Ukrainian President. Dear colleagues, if you will. I appeal to the deputies of all factions, if there is a drop of respect for their state, for the President's institution, then we should finally come to a conclusion. I think there are more than enough internal problems in the Communist faction today to solve them on their own level, so to speak. And above all, to engage in the moral behavior of their leader, the leader who decided, as it were, to get younger at the age of age. Dear friends, in December 2008 students. [[B in m in s a l in]] In December 2008, students and graduates of the University of Donetsk approached a scholar at the university and local authorities who had proposed that the university should be named after a poet and dissident, the Ukrainian hero Vasil Stus, who completed the university 50 years ago. The initiative was supported by more than 900 university students and graduates, as well as by well - known writers, Ukrainian culturers, and public organizations. He also supported this noble initiative of Minister of Education and Science Ivan Vakarczuk, and that is not surprising, because Basil Stus is one of the most prominent Ukrainians known not only in Donetsk but throughout the world. At the district council level, however, strange things began to happen. At the same time, the head of the Anatoly Bliznyuk district council and the head of the Vladimir Logwinenko district administration at the joint press conference opposed this idea. In February 2009, more than thirty national deputies, mostly from the Party of the Regions, were published and were suddenly eager to give the University of Donetsk the name of the little - known non - Donbas Communist official of Soviet times. Instead of supporting the young generation, politicians have launched a pressure campaign against students in Donetsk to create an illusion that the university community is neither of these nor against giving the university the name of its most outstanding graduate. Such actions are openly anti-Ukrainian and if they do not stop, at least on the part of the head of the district administration, the “For Ukraine” group, which I represent here in the Supreme Council’s rostrum, will insist on the removal of this person from office. He can't represent state authority in the largest Ukrainian region, a man who's fighting with the name Stus, by the way, killed by the predecessors of the Communist faction, this bloody Bolshevik regime. Any city and any university would be proud to have learned such a genius. Stus is the most outstanding graduate of the university, and when district leaders and nards speak against his name, the motive for such actions can be only hatred of Ukrainian culture, a desire to show that Donbass’s owners are clans, officials and anti-Ukrainian forces, not Ukrainian citizens. There are names and values that should unite the entire Ukrainian people, and they cannot be exchanged for petty party interests. Therefore, the “For Ukraine” group introduced a draft regulation “Promoting the Donate Youth Initiative of the Supreme Council”. Order No.4049. Unfortunately, some colleagues and some colleagues do not understand what Ukrainian culture and cultural values are in general, unless these values can be privatized. Here's one of the regional MPs who doesn't have enough of his property in Odessa wants to remove the Marine Museum from the list of sites that don't have to be privatized. Five thousand Odessyths have already signed against it, outraged by such an open attempt to steal this cultural establishment. The “For Ukraine” group is convinced that the position of anti-Ukrainian politicians, namely, the position of unsettled citizens in Donetsk and Odessa, in other cities, will definitely win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u11	National Deputy Shamanov Valery Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u12	I'd like a word with you, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u13	National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Volodymyrovich! First. I would like to ask you to vote now three things: first, that we work today continuously for up to three hours; second, that we look at the bills today by the reduced procedure; and third, I ask you to write down that we put in order today the daily bills in the banking sphere. Alexander Volodymyrovich! Alexander Volodymyrovich, may I? Today our faction is asking us to go back to the banking bill, the numbers. I ask you to put them on the agenda today and vote: 3649, 3689 and 3602, and 3607. These bills have been passed by committees and, given that today's unfinished issues on resolution of the banking situation, we are simply obliged to review them with you today. Now, on another issue that I wanted to speak to, my distinguished colleagues. Today, I am forced to contact you in connection with the distressing facts of the embezzlement of state property that is taking place in our country. And despite the fact that the president is also holding meetings, and he's always saying that it's unacceptable, and every day politicians of different levels are talking about the impossibility of further looting our nation, unfortunately, you know, stealing what's wrong and stealing what's good. How many, ask each one, how many, and what more must we steal to respond to this? Who, besides law enforcement agencies, will today ensure the security of Ukraine’s state property? What else must we steal in order to respond to you? Is it possible to build a Cave Laurel, or a road to Chrystec, or perhaps a school that your children are going to today? What else should they steal today? I would like to state that today there is a destruction of a large-scale investment infrastructure project in Ukraine, the Uzin International Airport. Today, officials who enter the President’s immediate surroundings are accustomed to impunity. After all, Ukraine’s Security Service became essentially a branch of the President’s Secretariat. Today, the Attorney General's Office has responded to my question that the President's Secretariat is an untouchable structure to which the inviolability of the President of Ukraine is spread. Today, apart from the castles that individual officials of the President’s Secretariat receive today, they also need huge megaprojects. Such a project is the “Uzin” project, which is a transport airport. Recently, the takeoff, the runway, was handed over to private structures for 49 years per cent, and Mr. Heletei, director of State Security, was involved, as well as his direct leadership. Today we have sent all the relevant questions and this is my information, and I also want it to be formulated as a request to the Prime Minister, to the Ukrainian Security Service, to the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u16	The need to preserve state property and implement such important projects for the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u17	Pavlovsky Andry Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u18	Good morning, dear colleagues, the chairman, the radio listener, I am forced to step out of this rostrum to draw the attention, first of all, of our President, of the prosecutor's offices to those inadequate actions that are taking place in Kiev. At least note that Kiev has created a communal enterprise with the same blasphemous name as the “Better House”. The main slogan of this enterprise, which should force the beloved grandmothers of Černovetsk, is the slogan of this company: “He has taken Greece – give up the apartment”. This utility will force the old lonely people, the pensioners of Kiev to rent their apartments and go to the homes of the elderly. I think that this fascism, if you want to treat our old Kiev people, has to be stopped and protected. So I think the Attorney General's Office should finally do something about the inadequate, sometimes insane actions of the Kyiv administration. Not to act as a host subject, as the Attorney General’s Office has said, builds something, takes the land from Chernewsky, gets the apartments, and then, indeed, it is difficult to make the prosecutor’s supervision of these inadequacies. Also, I would like to draw attention to the extent of such inadequacies, even though the introduction of paid medicine in Kiev is in a clear order, although this is contrary to article 49 of the Constitution. What's the point of privatizing high school? This is contrary to 53 articles of the Constitution. And the other crazy idea of Chernewsky is to eliminate the branch of Crucifixion, because that is, he counts the extra cost of the budget, and to force the doormen to deliver letters and bandits, even though they are not materially responsible persons. And these can be cited by the ideas of crazy initiatives. I think the time has come for the prosecution, and the President needs to take the liberty of canceling the assignment of the Montenegrin Head of the Kiev City Administration. It's going to be, I think, a real step towards meeting the Chinese. So the fact that Victor Andriyovich cancels Chernewecki's tariffs for the fourth time, and he signs them again, it turns out that Chernewsky is spitting at both the President and the Supreme Council. I think we need to put an end to this. And in the near future, to take hard action by the authorities and save our capital so it won't be a disgrace, a mockery of all of Ukraine and all of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u19	Azarov Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u20	Respectable TV and radio audiences! I think you haven't heard anything in 20 minutes that would characterize the socio-economic state of our country today. I'll try to fill that gap. Timoshenko's order classified data on the fall of a catastrophic gross domestic product in January. However, the figures at our disposal are striking. Industry has dropped by more than a third. In some areas: Dnepropetrovska – 41.4 per cent, Zaporozska – 42 per cent, Kirovogradska – 43 per cent, Volinska – 56 per cent. Think about those numbers! This means that each second enterprise does not work in this area. But better dry figures are characterized by such concise data. Do you know how much olive oil was made in January of the month? Please stay away from your chatter, respectable deputies! 60 grams a month! And think of where you lead the country. Meat produced 120 gamma a month! Think about what you're talking about in this room! The financial situation is particularly catastrophic. To date, only 4.2 billion greaves have been collected from the general fund. The Government grossly violates the law, spends local budgets, collects them from treasury, special funds, and is already 4 billion in debt. The pension fund has not returned 9.2 billion dollars in budget loans. Our demand is simple, with which we speak more than once. Put the real budget into the room right now! Abort manual budget management! This is the most important anti-crisis measure. The Government's decision to transfer all budgetary resources to Sberbank and Ukreximbank not only delayed the budget system, but also threatened bankruptcy by the largest Sberbank in Ukraine, where savings are being made. Nine of the largest banks in the population have already been bankrupted. Enough of the crocodile tears on TV! It is time to take concrete action! Pinzenyk got it first. Follow his example. The country has virtually stopped funding, the system of calculations is in operation, and the country is rolling towards the barter. The sharp delays in the payment of wages are delayed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u21	Finish up, Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u22	On all the proposals, we hear a particular Party of the Regions broadcast on television and on the radio. Stop lying to the people! For once, tell the people the truth and give up power to those who are now capable of bringing the country out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u23	School of Andriy Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u24	The school of Andrew, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Well, he was speaking to me, as you heard, scout. Because he learned classified information. Because he was the only one who knew them. Since the government had secreted all those enumerations, how did the previous speaker learn about them? Either that or he's done a hard, powerful enough, heavy enough operational work, let's share some experience. Because I'm basically convinced that the Ukrainian services needed this kind of experience. Finally, I heard again from this rostrum a number of spells, a series of cheers, that everything would be bad in the country until the previous speaker and the Party of Regions returned to power. Then I am sure that when the Party of Regions returns, the cabbage deficit will finally end in Ukraine. The cabbage will fall at a price. And we're finally going to be able to salt, leaven and use our national product. Well, there's a real problem. I haven't done a thorough analysis, but in Poland, sour cabbage is cheaper than in Ukraine. This is what I think is present in Poland right now in power, or if it was a colleague of a former head of finance, i.e. Ukraine's finances. And you don't have to say from this rostrum that it's going to be bad. There's no need to get upset about Ukraine being in the epicenter of the economic crisis because it's coming to us. Actually, it's not worth to shed the crocodile tears that have taken away from us, and now it's bad for you, but come back, and then we'll do you good. You have a plan. You have a recipe for getting out of the crisis. Bring it, don't hide it. That's a very nice position: we know how to get out of the crisis, we know how to do it, but we won't tell you. Why? I don't understand either. Are you planning on living in another country at this point? Are you counting that if you call for worsening, you will be happy with this deterioration, because it can theoretically bring you closer to power, and you will be all right? That's not gonna happen. And, believe me, society will clearly put all the dots above the “and. ” And you'll get as many points as we do, you can be sure of that. So when there are recipes, carry them, do not hide them. And when you can get secret, classified documents that the government has classified, can you do what the government can't do, in your opinion? Bring it and work it out. Give at least one quality bill that can be called anticrisis. A few, these are exceptions to the rules. There's no mass. And the opposition Cabinet of Ministers is working in a whistle. Work for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u25	It's Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u26	I'd like to give it to Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u27	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u28	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media, respected citizens! First of all, we'd like to clean up the mess hall. You know, we respect the opinions of all our colleagues, we respect your right not to think. But the session room has to be directed to get the deputies to work, to do the legislative work. So, frankly, if someone wants to turn into a parliamentary rally, go out and hold a rally behind the parliament walls and allow a normal faction, for example, the faction of the Lithuanian Block, to work in the session hall. Because a deputy's job is not a clown, it's a law enforcement, and it's another lawmaking. And the second point, which is obviously kind of a derivative of the first thing I said. Yesterday the session hall or the Supreme Council did not vote in favour of the Law, which everyone finally understands was due to vote. And obviously, it wasn't the ideal beliefs and even more ideological positions, but the real interest, unfortunately, was forced to say mercantile interest. This is about voting for the specialities of election companies in the mayoral positions of Ukrainian cities, city heads. Everyone knows perfectly well that a normal mayor is the mayor who uses confidence, in fact, as a minimum, the majority of the population of this community, this city. Yesterday the Supreme Council was to vote that the city heads should not be elected by 5,000 votes or 9,000 votes in 300 thousand cities as a result of the system that is now, but, at least, by half So I think we should go back to that question. And it's insane when 5,000 or 7,000 voters vote for a measure that seems to be from 200, 300, 500, 3 million people in one city or another. This is a principled question. And, Your Honor, those who didn't vote in favour of this bill yesterday won't be able to make any rational arguments about why you did it. Because I insist once again on this, and this is the position of the Lithuanian Block, the question not only in Kiev, the question in all the district centres. The measure of the city is a person who has to use the trust and authority of the majority of the population. I think we'll go back to that question and the mercantile interests will move on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. The speeches of the national MPs have been completed. Several suggestions were made during the presentations. The first suggestion is that today, just like yesterday, we work with you to consider drafts on a reduced procedure. I would like us to make this decision consciously, since there were several occasions yesterday when MPs wanted to use the rules of the Rules that we have for full discussion. So I'm voting on the proposal: I'm asking you to make an informed decision today that the drafts are being reviewed in a simplified manner. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:33:24]] For 204 Decision taken. The second proposal that came to continue today's plenary session until 15 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u30	Please, I am putting to the vote the proposal that this morning's plenary session should be extended for one hour. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:34:00]] For 208 The decision is not taken. And there were proposals to postpone the consideration of the four bills. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that before the Conciliation Council, a review of these bills was proposed for Tuesday, that is, yesterday. But during the Conciliation Council, an offer was made to move their consideration from Tuesday to Thursday, and this decision was taken by consensus on the Conciliation Council. I would ask that when we make such proposals, we understand that the national deputies for today have a schedule and perhaps they are not ready today to discuss these projects. Whether they will be considered today, whether they will be considered tomorrow, I don't think that's going to make a very big difference. It's not about weeks or, more or less, about months, and we have a very tight agenda for today. This should be decided on the order in which matters are dealt with. In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council, we today have to start work on ratification draft laws. Then we had projects that weren't discussed yesterday and those that were scheduled for Wednesday. So I'd like to ask the initiators to agree that we're going to be looking at these bills as defined on Thursday. Don't you insist on suggestions? Please log in with the question - handling procedure. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, please. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u31	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! We're really proposing from the faction today to move from Thursday, given that it's really extremely dense for a week's schedule -- 120 bills. Yesterday, we completed our assignment by 60 percent. We are very concerned that Thursday did not come to these bills again. They're introduced, by the way, by the factions of opposition, and by the factions of the coalition -- four bank bills that regulate the banking situation, they're facing society today, they're waiting for the banking system itself, because we're actually halfway there. We made a decision. Is it working or not working? In some ways it works, it doesn't work. We said "a," did not say "b". We'd like to continue, not keep this situation going. I'd like to ask, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to lay down the banking laws today, and, as we voted until 15 o'clock, to look at them, there are all of them in terms of coalitions and opposition, and the main thing is that they are considered in the profile committee, there are conclusions on them. Let's make the hall clear, because we're worried that Thursday won't come back, there's 60 bills on Thursday. That's our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u32	Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u33	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear colleagues, we are concerned again about the efforts to do everything in a reduced procedure. We have introduced document 4010 so that the economic issues will not be discussed under a reduced procedure. It'll be the same as yesterday. Then we'll spend the money on the holdbudget in the plenary to correct our mistakes. So we are again paying attention to this problem. And the next. We are convinced that the Law 4010 should therefore be considered in plenary. Yesterday, Alexander Volodymyrovich, you spoke about the decision to assign the name Stus to the University of Donetsk, and I would ask Parliament today to give a protocol commission to the Committee on Cultural Issues to consider this decision today, and then we will be able to take it to the plenary on Thursday and Friday. And that's what 3668 refers to. Leapina and I have introduced a project on a moratorium on small business by the end of the year. If the committee had considered it, they would have voted this week. Please consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u34	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u35	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Alexander Vladimirović, I see all the political forces talking about the need to save the city of Kiev. I have been in committee for the past year on Bill 2023: “On the delimitation of the functions and powers of the Kiev City Head and Head of the Kiev City Public Administration.” I propose that instead of talking about putting it on the agenda and considering it as a full programme on Friday. If we want to do something to save the entire city of Kiev from this injustice, I think all the political forces will agree and vote in favour of fully considering this bill on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u36	Jaroschuk Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u37	Vladimir Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass the word to Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u38	Dear People's Deputies, revered Alexander Vladimirovich! Well, the small thing that we will return to is that the coalition has not introduced an anti-crisis programme where there would be a systemic approach to getting out of the crisis, a small one that has not been changed to the budget, because the country stands before the financial collapse, even on the list of bills that are systematically set out and agreed upon at the Conciliation Council, you are trying to bring chaos. We are categorically opposed to your dictatorships. What kind of democracy is it, if the college against, professor against? It's practically the entire community against it, and you're trying to make a name and assign a name to the university at the expense of or. These dictatorships won't get away with you! No one's gonna let that happen! Therefore, I ask that, according to the order of the day, which was approved on the Conciliation Council, the bills be considered in stages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u39	Thank you. The procedure has been completed. With regard to the suggestions made, Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, you made that offer yesterday. I think the committee heads have heard, please, they'll need a formal application, we'll put it in the agenda next week, we'll look. With regard to the proposals under Bill 2023, I ask that the apparatus provide guidance on the readiness to implement all necessary regulatory procedures. If it is ready, then we will ask this question tomorrow about the inclusion in the order of the day and then we can consider it on Friday if it is done under the Rules. With regard to proposals for bank bills, I will certainly put to the vote, as required by the Rules, but I would ask the national MPs to be very careful with their colleagues in the session room and to work according to the approved schedule of plenary meetings. Since these issues are ready to be considered, I am proposing to the people's representative of Kirilenka that draft laws Nos. 3649, 3689, 3602 and 3607 be transferred from Thursday to today. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:41:54]] For 208 The decision is not taken. Dear fellow Members, we are moving on to the consideration of matters according to the schedule of meetings for today. A draft Act on the Ratification of a List of Obligations to Subscribe to shares from the increase in the capital of the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development is under consideration. Registration number 0111, reports Deputy Minister of Economy Friday Valery Teziyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u40	The President-in-chief, the honourable national deputies, is submitting to your consideration a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Ratification of the List of Obligations to Subscribe to Shares from the Increase in Capital of the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development. This letter of commitment was signed on July 15, 2008, by the minister of economics, Danišin, who is the head of Ukraine’s board of directors of the Black Sea Bank. The draft law provides for the completion of internal procedures to obtain the validity of the listed commitment letter. The bottom line is that today, at the Black Sea Bank, Ukraine has a share of 13.5 percent of statutory capital. During the 2010-2018 period, there is going to be an increase in capital, and Ukraine's total contribution over the period will total 40.5 million special borrowing rights. So today it's about 65 million dollars. As far as the arguments for what we're working with this bank are concerned, the share of Ukraine today is also 65 million dollars and so on. 13.5 percent, with a loan portfolio of 23 percent. And we take second place in this bank after the Russian Federation at the level of borrowing and at the level of projects that are being implemented in Ukraine. And these projects today make up almost $300 million. And this is in areas like energy, transport, shipbuilding, machine building, banking. In doing so, the banking sector primarily lends loans to small and medium - size enterprises. The Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agreed on the bill without notice. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u41	Thank you, sit down, please. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich, co-report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u42	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting reviewed the draft law on the ratification of the letter of obligation to sign on shares and increase the capital of the Black Sea Bank of Trade and Development, and we unanimously decided to support this ratification at the committee meeting. In this case, there is an increase in the bank's capital, from which the largest share, the biggest benefit, really gets Ukraine. This growth is more convenient for the Ukrainian State, for the Ukrainian small and medium-sized business, and this argument was definitive for us. With regard to Ukraine's ability to provide all the corresponding payments that are due to go up capital, it's absolutely realistic, not to mention that the amount itself is not cloudy, but it has to be paid in the period from 2011 to 2018, so there is also no problem with the Budget Code as to when laws are to be passed and adopted that affect the adoption of the budget. This is not for this one, or even for the following year. In addition, 70 percent of these shares do not require direct and immediate payment, and they should be in the form of a corresponding deposit that is payable only at the request of the bank. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the law be passed, that it be supported, and that the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are the conclusions of the regulatory committee that all relevant documents are properly presented. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u43	Let's sign up for a discussion. The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u44	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! In the event of ratification of this commitment letter, legal grounds will be created to finance Ukraine's participation in increasing the statutory capital of the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development, which will allow more efficient use of the bank's resources in the future to finance projects in Ukraine. All the calculations that they give us, we've been issued, give us reason to support the ratification of this bill. But there is one point that we need to pay attention to and what the reporter is talking about. It has been noted that special borrowing rights at the National Bank’s official rate of one SDR amount to about $1.6 today. So we're going to go from about 56 to 60 million dollars. If this amount is foreseen in the State Budget, we can ratify it, if not, we need to talk about it when amending the State Budget Act 2009. Therefore, the faction of the Party of the Regions supports and will vote in favour of ratifying this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The discussion is over, and I am voting on a draft law on the ratification of an obligation to subscribe to the stock from the increase in the capital of the Black Sea Bank for Trade and Development. Registration number 0111. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:48:25]] For 351 Decision taken. The draft Law on Ratification of the Decision of the Economic Council of the Commonwealth of Independent States on the amendment to the List of Conditions, Production and Technology Operations, where the goods are regarded as originating in the country in which they took place, is announced for consideration. Registration No. 0070. Reports: First Deputy Head of State Customs Pskowsky Igor Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u46	Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, the list of conditions of manufacturing and technological operations in which goods are regarded as originating in the country in which they took place is an integral part of the rules of origin adopted by the decision of the Heads of Government of the SND on November 30, 2000. In the list of goods and product nomenclature codes for external economic activity, the SND is based on a version of the harmonised system in 1996. By a decision of the SND Economic Council of 14 September 2007, the codes of the SND product nomenclature and the description of the goods included in the list are consistent with the product nomenclature of the external economic activity of the SND, which is based on the 2007 version of the harmonised system. This decision does not change the conditions of manufacturing and technological operations. The new edition includes all decisions of the SND Economic Council, which have been signed by Ukraine so far. The ratification of the SND Economic Council Decision of 14 September 2007 will allow for the harmonization and improvement of the external economic activities of the partner countries in the application of the rules of origin. Please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u47	According to the report: Taras Vjačeslavovich Czarnovil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u48	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Economic Council of the Commonwealth of Independent States Decisions to amend the terms and conditions of manufacturing technological operations, where goods are considered to be originating in the country in which they were located. The committee reviewed the project and made a unanimous decision to support it in the Supreme Council. And turn to the Supreme Council Hall to vote in favour. The adoption of this law is necessary for internal procedures and the validity of the SND Economic Council decision to amend the List of Conditions and Productive Technology Operations. Where they were signed by Ukraine in Moscow on September 14, 2007. Ratification of this decision will ensure the harmonisation of the external economic activity of the SNS participating countries in the application of the rules on the country of origin. This will set the main item. And what is the main point of this project, and why is it particularly beneficial today in Ukraine? Removing cane sugar from free trade mode. This is exactly the problem that was causing us enormous problems when third countries that did not grow sugarcane were hit by cane sugar in Ukraine, which created a completely unfathomable competition for our Ukrainian producer. The only question raised at the committee meeting: Won’t this cause a claim from the World Trade Organization? The question has been removed. This applies to our relationship within the SND. This does not apply to our WTO obligations. In this case, there is no contradiction to international law, and therefore the committee asks you to support the adoption of this law and ratify the treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u49	Let's sign up for a discussion. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u50	It is understandable that we must necessarily support this bill because it actually regulates the relationship within the SND, which was so fiercely opposed by one of the condensing nationalists about Moscow, Moscow's hands, Moscow agents and so on. It is a matter of fact that this bill will at least improve our relations within the SND. In any event, the economic space of the SND should now serve the benefit of the States involved. And we would not like to, I am sure that nationalists will not vote, but the Communists will support this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u51	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u52	Lilia Grigorović, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! At times, it may be sad to know what is ahead of time when the apiorator, perhaps even the previous one, knows what is to come. For Ukraine, the Group welcomes the organization of economic relations between the countries of our economic partnership, in which Ukraine is an associate member at contract level in order not to block our goods, not to boycott them, they are worthy of partnership. What prompts a comment against it? The objection is that discussions are taking place in a room where two posters are provocatively hanging that I can see, not the comsomolian zeal of boys and girls, the towels are tired, they are sitting down, and they need to be taken into account. And there's this case in the hall. I've been thinking for a long time why he might agree to push all the communists -- too small to get their ideology there -- her God, too big. Because they're today, with the Party of Regions, tomorrow, with the Butian coalition, that is, there's no ideology. Why would this suitcase agree with us in the hall on such matters? But perhaps to take Simonica’s rat away from the old woman and move it to the new one. The symbol corresponds. Use yourself, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u53	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Law on the draft Law on Ratification of the Economic Council Decision of the Commonwealth of Independent States amending the list of conditions, manufacturing and technological operations where goods are considered to originate in the country in which they took place. Registration number 0070. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:56:07]] For 373 Decision taken. The draft Law on Ratification of the Economic Council of the Commonwealth of Independent States Decision on Amendments to the List of Conditions, oh, I'm sorry, this is 0071. The name matches. Reported to the First Deputy Head of State Customs, Pikovsky Igor Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u54	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Ukrainian entrepreneurs have created the largest complex in SND and Eastern Europe to process and recharge tropical oils, including crude palm oil. Some U.S. companies work for advanced technology and use a physical way of refining plant oil, which, unlike chemical ones, is more economical and ecologically clean. At the same time, the current edition of the list of industrial and technological conditions in which goods are considered to be originating in the country in which they were, took place with regard to the criterion of sufficient processing of vegetable oil, does not provide for the use of a physical method of refining such products. In order to address this issue, the Economic Council of the SND decided on December 14, 2007, at the suggestion of Ukraine, to change the criteria for sufficient processing of plant oils, both chemical and physical refinements. The ratification by Ukraine of the SND Economic Council decision of 14 December 2007 will allow for the harmonization, improvement of external economic activity in SND countries and allow for a substantial expansion of traditional markets in free trade. Please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u55	The report is Taras Vjačeslavovich Crnowil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u56	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Decision of the SND Economic Council to amend the List of Conditions, Production and Technology Operations, where goods are considered to be originating in the country in which they were placed. This adoption of the law is essential for the completion of all internal procedures and for the acquisition of the Economic Council. Ratification of this law is good for the Ukrainian State, because it removes, on the one hand, certain misunderstandings that have arisen in both imports and exports, within the framework of the SND of plant oils, and also allows our enterprises to join more freely and adequately in external trade operations after the oil we have processed. Our businesses and the oil industry are one of the most powerful in the world. And this law unlocks a number of problems that were before in our supply of SNDs. This law is in no way contrary to Soviet law; there is no contradiction. It is supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. And the Committee on Budgets has decided that this adoption of this law, the ratification of this agreement, will in no way affect the State budget. In this regard, I ask you, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to support the ratification of the agreement and to vote in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u57	Let's sign up for a discussion. National Deputy Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u58	Please pass the word to John Stoick.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u59	One second, I'm sorry. Karpuk will be the first. Any questions about what's not going on? I'd like you to focus, please. I will now find out if there is a quality of the question. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare, we have a re-record for discussion: two in favour, two in favour. It's being recorded, only one faction representative can stand up for it or oppose it. I remind you of the standard. Please sign up. Members of the People's Party and Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich are now enrolled. I'm sorry, but the first time the recording took place, Deputy Karpuk was the first to be recorded. I beg his word, please. People's deputy Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u60	Please pass the word to John Mikhailovich Stoyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u62	Thank you. Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovic, honourable colleagues, the Group “For Ukraine”, to which I belong, supports all the laws that apply and which are of benefit to the Ukrainian State and which concern our security. As we have, indeed, the most powerful oil industry and we make the most oil, and it's in this oil bill that I'm going to say that we're going to support this bill because it reflects the realities of our economy, it doesn't conflict with the World Trade Organization that we're in, and we're asking the Hall to support this bill that has the conclusions of the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u63	Evening Volodymyr Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u64	Evening, Party of Regions. I think that our faction will vote in favour, and we will support it because the CIS countries need to maintain partnerships and especially trade relations. And this bill of ratification will help optimize relations between Ukraine and CIS countries. Thank you. I'd like everyone's support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u65	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u66	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not about oil produced in Ukraine, this is about palm oil. And we don't grow palms in Ukraine unless someone knows. But given the sound of how much milk we're making and everything else, I want to tell you that concentrated milk is almost completely formed from that palm oil. In every case, she was brought here about 700,000 tons. Did I give the wrong number? Yeah, right? 700,000 tons! And she went there to beat on the pancreas, on the liver, on all the insides of our Ukrainian children! I want to draw attention today to all the controlling bodies in Ukraine and the government of Ukraine that such things should not be played with. So we're talking about palm oil, so we're going to send it to the SND, and we're going somewhere in the SND, because we're already becoming manufacturers, and it's like we have palm trees coming out there in South, the city under Odessa. We don't have any palms there, we just have some tea, it's a little bit processed there. We have not yet built palm trees to thank God. So here's what we have to do. Can I ratify it? Yeah, we'll ratify. Here comes the trade. But I'm talking to each of you right now, so let's stop playing. And I'm talking to the Ministry of Health. It is called “health protection, ” and in fact. I doubt that we are now protecting our health when we allow all these oils to produce dairy products and write that it is milk and smuggle it into butter, and smuggle it into milk. That's why we have to accept it, but I'm asking the government to accept it and start working and report to the National Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u67	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Law on Ratification of the Decision of the Economic Council of the Commonwealth of Independent States amending the List of Conditions, Production and Technology Operations, where the goods are considered to originate in the country where they took place. Registration number 0071. Please vote. [[11:06:25]] For 394 Decision taken. The draft Law on Ratification of the Amendment to the Regulations of the Energy Charter on Trade is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0077. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy, Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u68	Dear National Deputies! Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! The government is proposing a draft Law on Ratification of the Amendment to the Regulations of the Energy Charter on Trade. The need for the development and adoption of this amendment is primarily due to the fact that the negotiations in the Energy Charter Treaty were concluded somewhat earlier than the negotiations on the creation of the WTO and thus there is a need for a replacement of references in the text of the GAT treaty with references corresponding to the WTO. The following changes to the Energy Charter Treaty are also being made as a trade amendment. First, the trade regime in the Energy Charter is distributed to energy equipment and equipment through this amendment, which is about 70 categories of such equipment. In doing so, it is important to say that the adoption of the proposed amendment does not create any additional obligations for Ukraine, since according to the terms of the treaty, the country applies the obligations it already has within the framework of the World Trade Organization. Secondly, the trade amendment provides for the possibility of transition to the maximum permissible level of duty. It should also be noted that the actual transition to such commitments is possible only after the trade amendment becomes effective. This requires ratification by 36 countries. To date, 34 countries have ratified such ratifications. And secondly, an appropriate unanimous decision of the Conference of the Treaty of Energy Charter is needed. Nor does Ukraine have any additional obligations, since it is already applying its obligations under the World Trade Organization. Thus, the adoption of a trade amendment creates a corresponding commitment that exists in Ukraine within the framework of the World Trade Organization to commitments.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u69	Finish up, please. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u70	On the other hand, the effectiveness of this amendment creates additional opportunities for energy and equipment exporters, as it creates a more favourable trade regime with countries that are members of the treaty but are not members of the World Trade Organization. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u71	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The report is the evening of Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u72	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration considered at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Amendment to the Energy Charter Treaty on Trade and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Amendments to the Energy Charter Treaty are related to the need to bring trade regulations into line with today’s WTO practice. The amendment extends the trade regime of the contract to energy-related equipment and changes the antiquated GAT standards to WTO standards. When deciding on the draft law under consideration, the committee members of the people came out primarily from the fact that in 1998 the members of the treaty agreed to update the treaty by means of a trade amendment, bringing it into line with WTO requirements. The committee's decision is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u73	Let's sign up for a discussion. The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. As noted, high - ranking colleagues have proposed an amendment, which mainly amends article 29 of the Energy Charter Treaty. And it replaces the references to the 1947 GAT, which are outdated, with the references to the status of the WTO. What will that do? Ratification of this amendment will provide clear legal guarantees for Ukraine to comply with the WTO energy requirements. And now, after the energy crisis, it will help restore Ukraine's positive image. The faction of the Party of the Regions is in favour of ratifying this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u75	Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u76	Papuy Andrey, “For Ukraine” MP. I would like to say that, after the latest events that have taken place in the relationship between Ukraine and Russia and the Ukrainian authorities and the Ukrainian public, it is clear that as soon as Ukraine adapts to international structures, to European structures, the more we will be protected from any external aggression, including energy aggression. And so today, for Ukraine, one of the most important issues is that we can coordinate our energy security with the European civilised states so that we can act together against possible aggression on the part of our northern neighbour. And that's why the Group "For Ukraine" and the faction "Our Ukraine" will support this bill, especially since it does not foresee any additional budget expenditure, and it will actually ratify the amendment to ensure that Ukraine's compliance with the WTO requirements in the field of energy is clearly guaranteed. We call on all deputies to support this bill and we will vote in favour of this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u77	Thank you. In accordance with article 31, part 5, of the Rules, a representative of a faction who did not participate in the discussion may make a statement on the basis of the vote. Please, Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. We support this ratification and that's why. Here the speaker, who represented, did not, in principle, name the key point that is in the amendment. And the amendment says that each party to the treaty, I quote, does not want to increase the customs or collection of any kind imposed on imports or exports, or in relation to imports or exports, particularly in the case of imports of energy materials or products, or energy-related equipment. So this is the moment that's absolutely beneficial to Ukraine, because we're interested as an energy consumer in getting energy at as low prices as possible, on the other hand, we're like a country where there's a whole range of companies that are exporting, exporting energy-related equipment that's interested in going to other countries' markets. That's exactly the case where we're comfortable, and that's why we need to ratify.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u79	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act “On Ratification of the Amendment to the Energy Charter Treaty on Trade”, registration number 0077. Please vote. [[11:15:10]] For 370. Decision taken. It is announced in the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on Economic, Industrial, Scientific and Technical Cooperation. Registration number 0083. Reported Deputy Minister of Economics Boycun Natalia Eugenyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u80	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft law is designed to carry out the internal procedures necessary to make the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Romania on economic, industrial, scientific and technical cooperation. It was signed in October 2007 in Bucharest. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council by adopting the Law on Ratification. The adoption of the law is a prerequisite for a treaty that will be a legal basis for bilateral economic, industrial and technical cooperation. It will create a dynamic dialogue in various economic spheres of common interest and support the economic development of both countries. The agreement also provides for the creation of a joint intergovernmental commission of economic, industrial and technical cooperation. The adoption of the law will allow the position of the treaty to be implemented through the development of business contacts between the companies of Ukraine, the exchange of information on the current legislation of Ukraine and Romania, the exchange of experiences from experts in the public and private sectors, technical colleagues, business representatives. Just like the exchange of materials, equipment, know-how needed to perform the tasks defined in this agreement. The implementation of the Act will not require additional expenditure from the State budget, and after the ratification of the said Agreement, the impact on the spending of the State budget will be possible if an intergovernmental commission is held to be financed by the budget programme to ensure bilateral cooperation between Ukraine and foreign states and international organizations. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u81	Thank you, Natalia Eugene. Correspondence: Vladimir Mikolaiovich Evening, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u82	Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, committee on European integration at its meeting on 3 September, discussed the draft Ukrainian law on ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on economic, industrial, scientific and technical cooperation. And he decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. This decision of the committee is based on the fact that the agreement is to be the legal basis for the development of bilateral trade and economic relations between the two countries and the activation of external trade. The implementation of the Agreement will contribute to the development of a mutually beneficial partnership between Ukraine and Romania in economic, industrial, scientific and technical spheres, the creation of favourable conditions for improving the standard of living of citizens, the efficient use of natural and human resources, the use of scientific and technological potential of both countries. The agreement also foresees the creation of a Ukrainian-Romanian joint commission on economic, industrial, scientific and technical cooperation. According to members of the committee, the ratification of the agreement will contribute to the development of business contacts between Ukrainian and Romanian companies. The exchange of information on the current legislation of the two countries, the exchange of experiences between experts in the public and private sectors. The ratification of the agreement is also supported by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u83	Let's sign up for a discussion. Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u84	Dear fellow national MPs! This covenant has a very serious meaning, especially today. Let's go from the opposite to the opposite. The final ruling of the Hague Court, which divided us with Romania and in which, let us be clear, Ukraine, with a crash, has been disgracefully defeated as a result of very inconsistent actions by the higher leadership of the state: both the President and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The misunderstandings that we have today very often with Romania have led us to believe that Romania, which is our neighbour with the large border line with Ukraine, must be our strategic partner with a great deal of cargo. And we have to have a permanent dialogue with her at all levels, from the highest level, from the presidents, from the government, and from the conclusion of the dialogue at the level of scientists, at the level of the enterprise, etc. And so it is the adoption of this Framework Agreement that can contribute to the eventual return of the relationship between Ukraine and Romania. So, regardless of the problems that we have at the international level, this agreement must be ratified, supported, and where we do not have ideal relationships today, and where we lose because of our cooperation, we need to get to the normal level of relations and be positive. Therefore, I personally urge everyone to support the ratification of this agreement, and I also report that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has unanimously decided to support ratification as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u85	Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u86	Papuy Andrey, “For Ukraine” MP. I would like to support Taras Viacheslavovich in that there has been some tension in the relationship between Ukraine and Romania over the past few months. This tension was triggered by circumstances that have a long history -- long before the announcement of the Ukrainian state. But just recently, the question was removed. And I don't consider the Hague Court to be a failure of Ukraine to any extent. And there is at least evidence of the fact that all the judges who made decisions on the matter voted unanimously, indicating that their professional approach demonstrated the same vision of the situation. And in this case, Ukraine has been able to stand up for the genealogies that are now being explored and, from an agricultural point of view, Ukraine has been able to obtain the necessary and the shelf where most of the exploration sites are actually located. But today is really the time for us to be able to have relations with our neighbor so that we can make them softer after the political tension that unfortunately has been sown in Ukraine by radicals and in Romania radicals and move on to mutually advantageous conditions. The ratification of this Agreement provides for both scientific and technical cooperation, and it provides for the recovery of the business relationship between the Ukrainian business and the Romanian business. That is why I think it is very important for the Ukrainian Parliament today to ratify the agreement in order to demonstrate good will towards equal and strategic relations with our closest partners geographically. Thank you. Please support, the "For Ukraine" MP group and the entire faction will support this ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u87	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Here my colleagues have just expressed themselves softly about the format and tone of our relationship with Romania. For some reason only the Serpent was mentioned. And I'd, you know what else I'd mention? A constant fight against Ukraine’s deep - water Danube - the Black Sea. At a time when Romania has made an artificial channel and a major part of the vessels coming from Europe pass through Romanian territory, through the Romanian channel, and thus earns Romania, and not us, who have a natural river, the natural mouth of the Danube in the Black Sea. This is the first position. Second position. Well, let's be honest: clearly, there are no friendly actions to stimulate dual citizenship in some parts of Ukraine. The name is Northern Bukovina. It's a government policy on the part of our neighbor, it's not some kind of, you know, spontaneous thing. So it seems to me that the relationship between Ukraine and Romania today is difficult enough. And there are some fractures that can exacerbate this relationship. But because the title of this document refers to purely economic and scientific and technical issues. I honestly wouldn't vote if this was about humanitarian cooperation, knowing certain aspects of humanitarian policy about Ukraine. In this regard, I think any regulation is better than it is not. That is, to enable Ukraine, including by referring to this agreement, to stand up for itself more effectively, including if necessary, in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u89	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u90	Thank you. Well, you know, there's a lot of talk here that needs to be done with Romania. Who needs it less? And when was that of greater benefit to Ukraine? I want to talk to the big patriots. The “For Ukraine ” group is becoming dangerous to the territorial integrity of our nation. And I'm afraid your stay in politics can lead to you selling out all of Ukraine. I don't understand the euphoria that we won the lawsuit. By the way, I want to say that Romania has constantly presented us with territorial claims. And I'm not surprised if that's where we're going to get both the Bukovina and the part of the Odessa region. And you're going to say, we didn't lose, we won, we're going to win, we're going to have to do it. Excuse me, please, where are you, poor patriots? Why do you allow yourself to look around after World War II? This is just the beginning. You know how this could end for our nation, don't you? And I'm surprised that these are the very questions behind this small group, the splinter of the President of Ukraine. Tell the people of Ukraine honestly, have you decided to sell all of Ukraine? Have you decided to hand it over? Tell me about it, please. And the faction of Communist Ukraine will not vote for a similar ratification. And I call on everyone, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, a question arose from the decision - making procedure. Please log in with the procedure. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Of course, we need to be a strong country, then no decisions will be made about us by anyone who defines our territory. That's the first one. We have not yet become such a country. As far as this ratification is concerned, it will have to be done. But what I would like to ask is, for the future, when we're told about a question, why, let's say, under this agreement, October 30, 2007 is signed in Bucharest, why didn't they immediately ratify it? What is the reason for the delay, why any underwater currents? I would like the MPs to know these things clearly, and economic cooperation should continue. This does not mean that many political issues are being removed, including the issue of Romanian passports to Ukrainian citizens and the same as Russian passports that continue to be issued to Ukrainian citizens. And that's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u93	Ungurani Pavel Jakimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u94	Paul Unguryan, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, the issue of Ukraine and Romania’s relations is one of the most difficult aspects of Ukrainian diplomacy. That's a well-known fact. Also, it is certainly difficult to appreciate how the recent Hague International Court’s decision on the status of the shelf can be a brilliant victory. This clearly cannot be called a victory, I think it was better for our President to take care of this issue, not the issue of the conflict between Georgia, Ossetia and Russia. But today the government is doing its best to regulate relations between Romania and Ukraine, and therefore, the Yulia Timoshenko Block will support this ratification and we call on the entire Hall to support the relationship, bring them to the appropriate format of international law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u95	Smudge Grigory Evdzimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! Garbage, Party of Regions. I want you to listen again to what Zarubinsky's colleague and Samuel said. Romania and I have a difficult attitude. Why do we today make this decision after a reduced programme, not allow ourselves to ask what is the state of other claims or other political slogans in Romania today, in terms of territorial claims against Ukraine? Why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not provide this information as a brief statement. So I call on the substance of this law to postpone it, and until it is given to the people's deputies, specific information regarding further action on territorial claims to Ukraine, not to vote in favour of this agreement. I very much ask everyone to pay attention to this and not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u97	Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u98	Anatoly Grishenko, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, I respect Romania and the Romanian people, but I would like to have the same respect for Ukraine. Last year there were reports in the press where the head of the Romanian state, the president, was actually talking about territorial claims to Ukraine. Unfortunately, there was no reaction from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, and there was no reaction from the head of the Ukrainian State. I'm sure Parliament will ratify this document, but I suggest we not do it today, I suggest we postpone it. Soon there's a scheduled visit to the President of Romania to Ukraine, and I'm going to get answers to the question that he meant, or he's going to cancel his statements, and then we're going to vote. Please put it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u99	I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Romania on economic, industrial, scientific and technical cooperation. [[Registration number 0083]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:32:58]] For 293 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party 101, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 142, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" - 50, Communists - 0, "Block of Lithuania" - 0. The draft Law on Ukraine's Association to the Vienna Agreement on the Establishment of the International Classification of Character Characteristics is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0097]] Reported by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Strych Maksim Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u100	Highly Honourable First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft law on the accession of Ukraine to the Vienna Agreement on the Establishment of the International Classification of Labelling Elements is being implemented in particular to implement the recommendations of parliamentary hearings “Protection of intellectual property rights in Ukraine, problems of legislative security and enforcement” of 27 June 2007. The International Classification of Mark Display Elements is a unified instrument for classifying documents internationally and is an effective tool for the application of information and applicants in search of the distinctiveness of the brand. Ukraine's accession to this classification will not only allow us to harmonize our legislation with international legislation but also allow the representatives of Ukraine to effectively influence the improvement of this classification in the interests of our national producer. I would like to point out that the agreement is administrative in nature, that it does not establish the extent of the rights to protect a brand that remains the absolute prerogative of our national legislation. I also point out that ratification will not entail extra costs from the state budget, because the agreement is administered by the World Intellectual Property Organization, of which Ukraine is already a member. Please support the bill, which is being tabled by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u101	Thank you. According to the report: Taras Vjačeslavovich Czarnovil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u102	Mr. Chairman, the country's distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's accession to the Vienna Agreement on the Establishment of an International Classification of Figures. I'm going to point out that we clearly supported the ratification after hearing the reporters on this issue. And the main motives were that Ukraine must be a party to all the relevant agreements that it wants to maintain the civilized rules of the game on intellectual property. The question arises only from the fact that the agreement was concluded in 1973 with amendments and changes in 1985. And why did Ukraine not join in throughout its period of independence by declaring the principles that fit the agreement? This could be a question for all previous governments and for previous presidents, including the current one. This agreement will contribute to Ukraine's development of clear positions in the protection of the same intellectual property over the figurative elements of the signs and will help strengthen our authority in this matter, protect our interests and our producers, their intellectual property in the figurative elements of the signs. And in this regard, it is beneficial and convenient for Ukraine. If we are to declare our aspirations for European integration, we need to complete fully and fully the ratification process in all the agreements that ensure European principles for the preservation and protection of intellectual property. In fact, it is a covenant. We are now approaching the final conclusion of all these procedures under all relevant agreements. We recently ratified, I remember the Zurich Treaty, the Locarn Treaty, now this Vienna Agreement. In fact, the Supreme Council is completing its duties in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u103	Let's sign up for a discussion. People's deputy Knjazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u104	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I'm convinced that, unlike the previous question, it will be supported by a large majority of the deputies, perhaps even by consensus, because it actually looks so frivolous possible, but it's a very serious matter. I'm actually glad that, you know, yesterday, when there was a discussion about whether or not to hold parliamentary hearings, today's ratification is an example of one of the parliamentary hearings being held absolutely. Effectively and for the execution of decisions and recommendations, more specifically, parliamentary hearings in Ukraine in just 17 years, more than 17 years of independence decided to join the international agreement, which, according to Taras Viacheslavovich, was adopted in 73 years, with minor changes – 85. I mean, what's this all about? It's about the elements of the figurative trademarks, and I can assume that the really uncompromising and absolutely random majority of those governments and the leadership of the state that were before didn't join this agreement, because the point is that if you have a trade mark and you don't join the international co-operation of the world, you can allow yourself to abuse your right to a trade mark. You can miss one letter somewhere by joining an internationally recognized world brand, or you can do something the other way around, and thus, as if under total disgust, abuse your right and use the world's roof completely inappropriately in this regard. And this kind of activity has had absolutely negative practices. We know the decision of many international judicial institutions, which unfortunately harms Ukraine’s image in this regard. That's why I think it is. ratification will be a good incentive for internal state procedures to force ratification of this instrument to bring the system into line with internal government issues. Well, we have dozens of firms with the same name, with the same logos, dozens of cases where in the same company the owners share, then there's no way they can agree on who the image is stored for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u105	Evening, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u106	Evening, Party of Regions. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support this agreement. Why? Indeed, in the last 17 years, Ukraine has decided to conduct normal international activities formalized that there will be no counterfeiting of trade marks. That is why we will vote in favour. This agreement establishes the rights and obligations of States parties in this area of international classification. This bill is generally in line with the terms and requirements of the Ukrainian Treaty on International Contracts Act, so its adoption will facilitate and ensure an adequate level of protection of rights on Ukraine's trade mark. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u107	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'm voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Vienna Agreement on the Establishment of the International Classification of Character Characteristics. Registration number 0097. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:41:28]] For 393 Decision taken. The draft Law on Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on the establishment of the NATO Information and Documentation Centre in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[NATO]] Registration number 0101. Reported by Deputy Foreign Minister Kostenko Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u108	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The additional protocol, signed on April 4, last year, provides for the award of contractual principles to the Centre and its co-workers of privileges and immunities, similar to those granted to diplomatic missions accredited in Ukraine and their co-workers in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of April 18, 61. It is worth noting that since the existence of the office centre in Ukraine, that is, since 97, the center has been using diplomatic privileges and immunities according to the government's decision. But this decision of the government today has a temporary basis. The adoption of the ratification law that you are considering will result in the enforcement of the provisions of the Vienna Convention in relation to the representatives of NATO in Ukraine and will not require the adoption of new or amendments to the existing laws of Ukraine. The adoption of the law on ratification does not require additional material and other costs of the state budget of Ukraine, it should also be noted that the ratification of the additional protocol does not have political coloring and does not depend on the level of our country's relations with the North Atlantic Alliance. This issue is essentially protocol in nature, namely respect for the principle of reciprocity in relation to the activities of Ukraine's representation abroad and representations of other countries and international organisations in Ukraine. Since the establishment of the mission in Ukraine, the mission of Ukraine to NATO in 98, its employees and members of their families have benefited from the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Privileges and Immunity. In fact, we bring into line the existing practice. NATO co-workers in other states are partners of the alliance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u109	Yuri Vasilovich, please finish. We've got a short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u110	I want to conclude that, for example, in 2001 there is a NATO Information Office in Moscow, whose co-workers enjoy privileges and immunities according to the Vienna Convention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u111	According to the report: Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, please. Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich is missing?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u112	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on 12 November last year, the European Integration Committee discussed the draft Law on Ratification of an Additional Protocol to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and NATO on the Establishment of the NATO Information and Documentation Centre in Ukraine. The committee decided to recommend the bill before the Supreme Council adopted it on a basis and as a whole. Similar positive decisions were taken by the National Security and Defence Committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Budget Issues, on December 11, 2008, which decided that the bill had no impact on the income or expenditure of the budget. Taking all this into account, I propose to the people's deputies to support this bill, which will be extended to the members of the Information and Documentation Centre and their families. This is about two coworkers of the Information and Documentation Center with four family members. Let me remind you that in Ukraine's NATO mission, there are 25 employees working with their families, 50 Ukrainian citizens benefit from privileges and immunity, working at NATO headquarters. So, based on the principles of reciprocity, the Committee on European Integration calls on national MPs to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u113	Let's sign up for a discussion. Young Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u114	Papuy Andrey, “For Ukraine” MP. I would like to ask the national deputies of Ukraine to do their utmost not to translate the matter into politics. Because it's not about the political aspects, it's about doing it. To harmonise our relationship, and to protect those privileges and those that our fellow workers have, Ukrainian citizens at NATO representations, so that their representatives have the same protection and the same privileges here in Ukraine. In this case, it's just about mutuality, it's about bringing our relations into line with the legislation of international agreements, and so that we can give the same, once again, the status of our co-workers, the North Atlantic alliance's co-workers. So I emphasize, there can be no political approach in this question, there must be a legal approach, there must be a responsible approach. And I would also like to point out that today, according to current legislation, the North Atlantic Union remains our strategic partner. And the international agreements that were adopted at the Supreme Council of Ukraine state that, in fact, the accession to the North Atlantic Alliance is the strategic direction of Ukraine and its foreign policy. And so in order to consolidate this direction, in order to consolidate these relationships, I ask all the members of the Supreme Council to vote in favour of this bill. And I note that the parliamentary group “For Ukraine” and the whole faction will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u115	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u116	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will not vote in favour of this bill. Moreover, I want to say I'm impressed by the fact that they say not to politicize that the betrayal of national interests has now taken place. And really, the citizens of Ukraine need to pack this suitcase faster, because they will surrender both the land and the people and the territory of Ukraine. As far as NATO is concerned. I am personally a Ukrainian national deputy, and I think it's not just me, but we often get information about NATO's good intentions and interests in every corner of the globe. True, there is no talk of Iraq, there is no talk of Iraqi blood, there is no talk of scattered Serbia, there is no talk of Afghanistan, there are other places where NATO is necessarily present. There are some of the values that melt in the human mountain. And they're drowning right in the cow of the people. But I took the floor to say otherwise. In the state budget of Ukraine, for which we did not vote on the projected funds for the information provision of the NATO programs. I don't understand, Alexander Volodymyrovich, they want to move to the East, and we, on account of the underprivileged people in the budget, predict money to move them to talk about how beautiful they are, they want it for our money, for our taxes, we don't have to allow it in any way. I don't know if we're a sovereign state or whether we're being run by the U.S. administration. I am addressing all the patriots, the real citizens of Ukraine, please say no to this bill. We're not voting for him, and that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u117	Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, today we are considering only a political bill and there is nothing here to draw our attention to any economic benefits. Indeed, this bill should be considered in the context of the following. If, under this bill, we give military, in fact, spies diplomatic status, that is, if they find us a state secret that we have not yet sold, the Government or the President, we provide them with protection. And the next document on the protection of other liaison officers, which will convey this State secret and once again have diplomatic status of privileges and immunity. You know, we've already been separated from each other and we've been doing stripping, and it's a shame to look at our country, which is being pushed into the mess of military events for which NATO is responsible. You should note that NATO is all about its personal interests. And the statement that a NATO member is going to protect Ukraine is a meaningless conversation that reflects the interests of those who receive 30 pieces of silver for selling their own State and their own interests to our beloved State of Ukraine. Therefore, to those who claim that Ukraine has a Euro-Atlantic choice, I would like to remind them that Ukraine has a choice of its own, strong, independent State of Ukraine, which cares for its citizens and the prospects for development, both east and west, but not in any case in the military-political blocs, which reflect the interests of the solely principal founder, the United States of America. It is for this reason that the faction of the Party of the Regions will not support this bill, it will call upon the people of Ukraine to move these timepieces, these mancures, who want to destroy the future of our State in war for their personal financial interests. And the future of our State is cooperation with all countries, both with Europe and, of course, with the strategic partner, the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u119	Dear Catherine, since you have spoken to me, I give you the answer. The issue of the adoption of the budget in the session room was accepted by the political majority present here, which the faction of the Party of Regions does not include. And it was signed by the President of Ukraine's State Budget Act. So all budget questions, please ask them that way. I am voting on the draft Act ratifying the Additional Protocol to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on the establishment of the NATO Information and Documentation Centre in Ukraine. [[NATO]] Registration number 0101. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:28]] For 235 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 1, Yulia Timoshenko Block – 149, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 67, communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 18. The draft Law on Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on the appointment of NATO Liaison Officers in Ukraine is under review. [[NATO]] Registration number 0102. Reportedly, Deputy Foreign Minister Kostenko Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u120	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The project you're offered is practically identical to the previous one, and I don't want to argue with those who think the Law on Privileges and Immunities is politics. It's the protection of our Ukrainian citizens who work in Brussels today. And that figure that the liaison officers we're talking about here today are five, and our staff in Brussels is twenty - five, that's what we're talking about, we're going to ask questions about protecting the interests of our Ukrainian citizens. So I would like to emphasise, perhaps not everyone has heard that the NATO Information Office has been operating in Moscow since 2001. And this is for those who are politicizing this question, I say, not just in Ukraine, but in other states, and in our strategic partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u121	Yuri Vasilovich! Don't be distracted, please! Report on the substance of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u122	I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u123	According to the report: Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u124	At its meeting on 12 November, the Committee on European Integration decided to recommend to the Supreme Council to adopt a bill on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and NATO as a whole. [[on the appointment of NATO liaison officers in Ukraine]] Like the previous bill, this bill is technical and supported by the National Security and Defence Committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budget Affairs, it formalizes this bill of understanding between Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. It concerns eight NATO liaison officers and their families, as I have said, Ukraine has 25 and 50 families with diplomatic immunity and privileges. I'd like to tell those who are so passionate about Russia. I'd like you to know the Russian Ambassador's statements against our country against Ukraine. It's an outrage! It's a disgrace! When the Ambassador of the Russian Federation stirs up animosity between our countries!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u125	Boris Ivanovich, I'm sorry, we're currently looking at a draft law on ratification. In fact, please report. Done? Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, well, frankly, you know, there's no limit to cynicism, because when it comes to other things, the Communist Party takes a completely different position. When it comes to NATO, they don't even read the bill, they don't care about the content at all, they're only interested in the abbreviation of NATO. Abbreviation has become so frightening with their mouths that even voters who vote for their Communist Party do not know what it means. You know, it was quite recent that one of the humorous shows was when in the Luhansk region, you were asked whether you were in favour of NATO or the North Atlantic Union. And each voter said he was definitely against NATO, but for the North Atlantic Union. This is exactly the preposterous brutal politics of lies and misunderstandings, even the essence of the matter. It's a technical question. Let's not politicize any questions by scaring you with an acronym that is unknown to you and far away. As long as it's like this, in fact, we have a chance to integrate into two Euro-Atlantic structures, because ignorance has always been a guarantee that we've been successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u127	Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, of course, I signed up to vote in favour because in the previous vote we saw agents of influence standing and showing their face to the entire Ukrainian people. And of course, right now, I want these same agents of influence to tell us how much they've been paid, and how much further they're going to get to sell our State's interests, especially because I'm worried about Block of Lithuania, is the bloc that the people really need, the people who said they're willing to stand for our Power, for our agrarians. Today, in a single row, they are voting for the NATO bloc to use Ukraine and, by the way, agrarians in its useful political interests. To those who understand abbreviations, young deserving lawyers, I would like to remind them: in fact, not in letters, but in what a traitor, he has always remained a traitor, as was the case with the bandits today, as was the case with Ukrainian nationalists, who today say very simply: "Think, sell Ukraine! This is also a technical question.” Of course, why the technical question, because there are so many, they don't know how to technically share those 30 pieces of silver. Give 30 pieces of silver to your chief and fix it for America. Because it is clear to Ukraine that we are now an independent State. And thanks to your efforts, we're not going to be a state, and we're going to be a fifth, fifth wheel in no one's need for a third-class country. I call upon the people of Ukraine to draw attention to those who today need to be removed from Ukraine's policies by a bad broom, no longer to govern the State, and they must represent the interests of the State. Their place in Kunstkammer is for our descendants to see the traitors of 30 silver men destroy the future of our children. But I'm sure our future will follow us. I therefore vote for the people to see the traitors who today are agents of the influence of the American Government in the Ukrainian East.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I am continuing this morning's plenary meeting for 15 minutes, pending the conclusion of this consideration. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u130	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Who is unaware of the results of sociological research in Ukraine? After all, three quarters of the population of Ukraine strongly opposes Ukraine’s accession to NATO. Then a rhetorical question arises: What interests do the coalition today represent when it votes in favour of the documents that bring Ukraine closer to NATO? I am absolutely convinced that Ukraine will never be part of NATO, because Ukraine's accession to NATO would mean denying Ukraine's Declaration of State Sovereignty, which clearly records Ukraine's non-block status. And this document has the highest legal power since it was accepted in a referendum. The second circumstance that convinces me and my supporters that Ukraine will never be part of NATO is that Europe, at least the old Europe, has already demonstrated a pragmatic position on more than one occasion. In particular, countries such as Germany and France. When they get up, they're going to have to make another choice: Ukrainian, Ukrainian crane in the sky, or gas blue in their hands, and they're going to make a pragmatic choice, and that's clear. And third. And that's why that part of the “Our Ukraine” faction called today is cynically calling itself “For Ukraine!” I want to say that the new US administration has already refused from Ukraine as a pusher to NATO. They don't want to see Ukraine in NATO anymore. So, dear colleagues, I am addressing you and I would like to urge you to do the following. Let's not embarrass ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u131	Thank you. The discussion was concluded. Now, please, I would like to be restrained from speaking, since individual factions were mentioned. The right to a replica is vested in the “Lithuania Block”. From the “Block of Lithuania” Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u132	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. What we can say about these other attacks. It's very annoying to some people that Parliament is working. I get it, those. You don't want to work for a long time, and you don't want to. First. The other one. I am surprised by the cynicism of those who have just said that they can't vote with Romania for ratification, and here they have taken and voted. So don't talk about sequence, just look at the results of your vote. On the other hand, when we are accused of something, open the bill and read it. You didn't read it, you don't know the contents of the bill. You have the abbreviations you use, the cards you throw at people. Read the bills, read the material portion. And that's what's important. Understand one thing that cooperation with international organizations is a plus, it's a plus with the ODCB, with NATO, and with everyone else. Smart people work together. The fools are closing in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u133	A replica of the Communist Party faction. Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u134	Our honourable voters, one of the Ukrainian national deputies, have practically hypocritically said that the people of Ukraine do not understand what NATO is, how to decipher it, and so on. I want to tell this Ukrainian national deputy, if you don't know, this people of Ukraine has brought you to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this people of Ukraine have collected over 6 million signatures for the referendum against NATO. And by the way, the CFC was forced to admit that there are good reasons to hold an all-U.S. referendum, but your President, just like you, ignored the will of the people, wanted to determine democratically where he was going to be. And that's why you young man, get on your knees and ask the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to pay attention. I made clear who was mentioned during the discussion. The group “For Ukraine” was mentioned. Who is from the “For Ukraine” group? The replica. Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u136	Lilia Grigorović, “For Ukraine” MP. Dear friends, remember the stories when Kisa Vorobyaninov tore up the last chair, and there was nothing there — a war of beasts. That's the same beastly wreath we hear in the hall today. Ukraine will be a worthy state, independent forever. And this is, of course, reported by the “For Ukraine” group. I understand it's very unpopular. At the same time, I want to say that there are a lot of exosotes in this Parliament from Kunstkammer. When a homoseutic owl is baptized with a fsbeck, the exotic ones that today bring into Parliament a suitcase that will take their leader to a new family life. Dear friends, I would like to emphasize, literally, the last. If there's a Parliament instead of exotics, owls, FSBs who know Pavlik Morozov and hate Stus very much, there'll be Ukrainian patriotic citizens, it'll all go away. And in that, the group "Our Ukraine" will try, and the people will try.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u137	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act ratifying the Additional Protocol to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on the appointment of NATO liaison officers in Ukraine. [[Registration number 0102]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:07:57]] For 239. Decision taken. [[Applause]] The factions? Please. Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 152, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 67, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 19. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 39 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u138	We're continuing the meeting. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on an international road passenger and freight connection and the Protocol on the application of the said Agreement is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0104. Reports: Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications Sergienko Leonid Grigorovich. There's no report. Questions from the agenda have been removed. Please find out why there is no reporter. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Algerian People's Democratic Republic on the Protection of Information with Limited Access is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0108. Reportedly, Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Gerasimenko Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u139	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Algerian People's Democratic Republic on the Protection of Information with Limited Access. The designated international act is designed to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to create legal frameworks for enhanced cooperation in military and technical cooperation. The agreement was signed on April 7, 2008 in Algeria. Its content fully corresponds to the international practice, the current legislation of Ukraine and ensures the exclusively equal partnership between the parties. In accordance with the provisions of the current legislation and article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, this treaty is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u140	Thank you. Please report. Taras Vjačeslavovich Czarnovil
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u141	Dear Lord Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement with the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria on the Protection of Information with Limited Access. We made a clear decision to support the document. This paper basically, almost two drops of water, repeats dozens of other documents that have already been accepted by Ukraine for this reason with a number of countries in Europe, Africa, Asia, Latin America, with those countries where we have at least some circumstances that require transfer and the corresponding mode of transmission of information with limited access. This law is prescribed accordingly. The treaty is made in accordance with Ukrainian law, in accordance with international law. There are no warnings under the bill, no expenditure from the State budget on the implementation of the agreement is foreseen, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the National Security and Defence Committee have also requested support for the bill. In addition, I am informing you that the Algerian People's Democratic Republic is not a member of NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u142	Let's sign up for a discussion. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u143	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. It is clear that we will vote in favour of the draft law. But the only thing that's surprising is the following. We conclude with the Algiers People's Democratic Republic of the Treaty on the Protection of Information with Limited Access, which, by the way, did not act as the head of the Security Service, but represented its deputy, which is a violation of the Rules. He would have to answer why we, in Ukraine, today have open access to all sources of information that are limited. Since its submission, it has been given to Mr. Nativajchenko, who has not come to the Supreme Council for some reason today, since his submission, and not only has he been classified, but he has been handed over all State secrets, including even what has been exported abroad, and has been removed from abroad by the same gas pipeline, and the gas transport system has been shown to the entire Polish community. So I would like to vote in favour of such documents so that our duty-holders of the Security Service will work to ensure that our information is respected, and this draft law is respected in our secret information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u144	Stojko Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u145	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I would like to say that the National Security and Defence Committee has considered this draft agreement. As head of the information security subcommittee, I have no objection and the committee has also reached a positive conclusion. Therefore, the “For Ukraine” group and the “Our Ukraine” faction will support the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u146	Thank you. The discussion is concluded, and I am voting on a draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Algerian People's Democratic Republic on the protection of information with limited access. Registration number 0108, please vote. [[12:46:08]] For 322 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, Deputy Minister of Transport Sergienko Leonid Grigorovitch brings his apologies to the Ukrainian National Deputies and asks that we pay attention and that we return to this issue. No objections? None. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the International Road Passenger and Freight Connection and the Protocol on the Application of the Agreement, Registration No. Sergei Leonid Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u147	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine's draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the International Road, Passenger and Freight Connection and the Protocol on the Application of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on the International Road, Passenger and Freight Connections developed by the Ministry of Transport and the relationship to the execution of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers with a view to carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the validity of the said Agreement. The draft act provides for the ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on an international road and passenger connection and the Protocol establishing an agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Republic of Tajikistan on an international road, passenger and freight connection signed on 6 December 2005 in Kiev. The draft act is accepted without notice by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Economics, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The bill was also approved at a government committee meeting. The implementation of the draft Ukrainian Law does not require any additional expenditure from the Ukrainian State Budget. Taking into account that the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement will create conditions for the activation of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Tajikistan, the development of cooperation in the field of road, passenger and freight transport, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan and the Protocol on the application of the Agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u148	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Crnowil Taras Vjačeslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u149	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft law on the ratification of the agreement. At first we had the question: How extensive are these transportations with Tajikistan, which makes sense for us to accept the agreement, ratify it, and will this be of economic benefit to the Ukrainian side? The confirmation was and was provided by the Ministry of Transport that the relationship in this area between Ukraine and Tajikistan has increased dramatically recently. And what we're talking about is that from the start of virtually minimal transports, single transports we've been going out for hundreds of years now, there's a prospect of growth. Our transportation companies actively began working in Tajikistan, and we were able to get in there in time before, say, Kazakh, or Russian carriers or Chinese carriers entered there. We need to strengthen these possibilities. Our vehicles, which we no longer have in Europe, which do not meet certain circumstances, can work freely in Tajikistan. And that's why this agreement is primarily beneficial to the Ukrainian side. The agreement provides for issues related to customs procedures when moving, imports of fuel, and so on. This is mainly true of Ukrainian automobile companies operating in Tajikistan, not the other way around. Because we understand the possibilities of Tajikistan's car transport, its possibilities are, say, Ukraine's presence. In fact, we have almost a unilateral advantage for Ukraine. Because of this, our committee is asking for support, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supports the adoption of the bill, considered by the Committee on Budgets and concluded that it does not affect the income component. Similarly, he was recommended, as far as I know, by the Transport and Communications Committee. So please support the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u150	Let's sign up for a discussion. Evening, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u151	Evening, faction of Party regions. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support this bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of Tajikistan for one reason because trade and economic operations between the Asian Republic of Tajikistan and Ukraine have recently increased. We must now maintain trade and economic relations not only with the countries of the European community and focus on this at all times, but also with the former countries of the Soviet Union, i.e. with the countries of independent States, our Party of Regions is also in favour. The Asian trade market needs to be conquered and more logistics transport centres need to be expanded in Ukraine, since Ukraine is at the heart of Europe and Central Asia. Therefore, the Party of the Regions will be in favour of such a decision and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u152	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u153	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will also support the bill. And we're really interested, there's an economic benefit for our state, just in adopting such a law. But, Your Honor Leonid Grigorovich, using your presence here, I would like to make some warnings about the ministry that you represent here today. Unfortunately, you're ruining the entire transport system today, I mean the Scud Sea International Trade Port, which deals with transport, where there are two porous transports, and I can talk a lot more. At this very difficult time of crisis, the company is working with profits, providing for itself and the viability of the city of Skadowska. But the ministry has decided to destroy the Sadov seaport by turning it into a port, like you did in Genicescu, which is just not working right now, we're going to be honest about it. I don't understand such a policy, a ministry that should protect state property, protect a state-owned enterprise. Moreover, you can see that you can't defeat the labour force and the society of the town of Skadowska, so you've decided to solve the issue in a completely different way, you've decided to remove the position of head of the seaport, the person who provides efficient work.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u154	Catherine Semenovna, I ask, according to the regulations, you must speak only on the grounds of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u155	I have the right to speak for two minutes as long as I can. And I said we're going to support, we need to listen not only to one side, but also to what I'm saying. So I think if you keep going that way, you're really going to destroy the entire transport system, all the transportation in our country. And those who are voting would be better off not selling the national interests of our country, you've heard about what.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u156	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on an international car, passenger and freight connection and Protocol on the application of the said Agreement. [[Registration number 0104]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:54:49]] For 351 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes is under review. Registration number 0110. Reportedly, Fedashkin Deputy Minister of Finance Denis Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u157	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation on Income Taxes, signed on 13 July 2007 in Kiev, is before you. The purpose of this Convention is to avoid double taxation on the income of natural and legal persons that arise in the territories of both countries. This is achieved by dividing the right to tax certain types of income between Ukraine and Morocco depending on their origins, also by taking into account the taxpayer’s tax liability on one State’s taxes paid on another State’s territory. In addition, the convention aims to prevent tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination and create mechanisms to improve cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Morocco by establishing mutual reconciliation procedures on certain issues and exchange of tax information. The adoption of the bill will speed up the effectiveness of the convention and streamline relations between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Morocco in tax matters. Please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u158	According to the report: Taras Vjačeslavovich Czarnovil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u159	Dear Sir, my fellow countrymen of Ukraine! The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation. We conducted appropriate tests, cited them, and requested help. Morocco is not one of the countries suspected or charged with offshore schemes. There is a fairly clear, well-balanced and well-coordinated Ukrainian tax legislation that prevents financial schemes from being used in that country. So today, as goods grow, when the relationship and entrepreneurial activities between Ukraine and Morocco grow, unfortunately, so far in much smaller than they would like to be. But given the need to diversify investment flows and create conditions so that our business can also work in other countries and make profits there, just outside of the markets where we've worked so far, Morocco's market as one that is growing dynamically is interesting for Ukrainian entrepreneurs. In addition to tourist services, which already involve Ukrainian tourist companies. There's a manufacturing, processing industry, a country that's really developing dynamically, a relationship development that's going to be useful. The text of the treaty itself is absolutely standard, in line with the standards adopted in the Ukrainian practice of international treaties, in line with Ukrainian legislation. So our committee is asking to support the adoption of this ratification law. The same is true of the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, of the relevant committees of profile, and the Committee on Budget confirms that the adoption of the agreement will not affect the State budget. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u160	Let's sign up for a discussion. People's deputy Knjazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u161	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I have no doubt about the need to ratify this agreement. But I have a very interesting question that we still have about the same Treaty with the Republic of Cyprus. Remember, this is such a long story. And the last time, unfortunately, we haven't been able to achieve a positive outcome and finally denunciation the deal that is still signed by the Soviet Union. We've made such a shy decision that let's make some improvements, check some things, or maybe we need a new agreement between Ukraine and Cyprus at all, let's forget about that. Although for some reason no one is saying that the Cypriot side has made a completely logical proposal to me, constructively, you first denounce it, and then we'll talk about the new agreement. So I think if we're in the context of a proper ratification today, because today's analogous issues are going up in Morocco, we've raised that question because it's not off the order of the day, it's just something that's being set aside for further reconciliations and consultations. It's been a long time. We've been in the Ukrainian Parliament for seventeen years and a half times we've tried this denunciation agreement, so unfortunately, we don't have a few votes left. What do we have as a result? As a result, last year we have about six billion dollars from Ukraine to Cyprus without hindrance without double taxation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u162	Ruslan Petrovich, please, on the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u163	So I would like to ask, Mr. Chairman, immediately after this question to ask the question of the return to the ratification of that Agreement, which we support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u164	Thank you. With regard to the return to ratification, we can do that if the Cabinet of Ministers is properly filed and we ask this question for consideration at the session hall. National MP Ribhub, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u165	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. I'm not really opposed to the text that we have and ratify, but to the approaches and self-reliance that the government allows itself in making similar decisions. Why I'm saying the same thing, and here, in this case, is an example of Morocco. The mining plant has long won the production of mini-walls for our country’s agriculture. The government, on the other hand, allows for the purchase in Morocco of thirty - six thousand motorcycles. So practical actions do not correspond to the content that we vote for. And we've got thirty-six million tons of metal, we've got machine factories stopping, so here's your income taxes and avoiding double and all that. So I want to take another look at the government objectively from, to these issues of problems, so that the economy responds to the questions that we are currently discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u166	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes, registration number 0110. Please vote. [[13:02:31]] For 351 Decision taken. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, registration number 0114, is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u167	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments has been developed in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts for the purpose of carrying out the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement. The Agreement provides for the granting by each contracting party in the territory of its State of an investor of another contractual party of a regime that is fair and no less favourable than that which it provides to its own investors or investors of any other State in terms of the administration, use, receipt of profits and management of its investments. The agreement also contains effective mechanisms to prevent the unwarranted expropriation of the costs of contractual investors, provides for a free transfer of payments after the fulfilment of all investor tax obligations and international procedures for settling disputes between contracting parties’ investors and contracting parties. The law will allow the Treaty to be directly implemented in bilateral relations between Ukraine and Saudi Arabia to implement it in Ukraine’s national legislation to create a favourable investment climate. This will reduce non-commercial risks and increase the volume of foreign investment and ensure the stability of the Ukrainian economy. The adoption of this project does not require any additional expenditure from the State Budget. At the same time, the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement may have an impact on the cost of the budget in the event of the occurrence of Article 4 of the Agreement in cases of compensation and damages. The guarantees for the protection of the investments provided for in this Agreement correspond to the international practice of settling the issues and setting up the international agreements of Ukraine and are already in force in Ukraine's Foreign Investment Regimes Act, and foreign activity. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u168	Thank you, Natalia Eugene. Please report: Crnowil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u169	Mr. Chairman, the country's distinguished national deputies! As far as this ratification is concerned. I fully support, on behalf of the committee, everything that has just been said by the deputy minister, all the relevant standards for this project have been fully implemented there. I want to say a little bit about the context. Sadly, last plenary Friday, when the proposal was made, it was Mr. Lavrinović who asked us to consider the bill in turn. She was not supported at the time because of her bitter misunderstanding. Today we can correct this mistake, but one event took place this week. Our parliamentary delegation has visited the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where we have spent quite a lot of serious things, for me, important to the Ukrainian economy, for trade, for diversification of our energy supply, for the sale of our food production, for the negotiations and it would be very appropriate if we could present on the spot the Main Advisory Council, which in fact resembles our Parliament, although not elected, but appointed as king there in Saudi Arabia, to present a ratification and to achieve that already last week could have been ratified in Saudi Arabia. With Saudi Arabia, we have an average turnover of three times a year. This is today probably not the best in Ukraine, and the positive balance in Ukraine. We put metal there, we put machine-building there, we put grain there, we can give a lot more. But against the backdrop of that, we've already got a billion dollars in supply. We have virtually no investment cooperation today. Saudi Arabia is one of the few countries today that have free credit investment costs. All countries of the world want to work with them. By accepting this treaty, we can also count on very serious and normal cooperation. The treaty is primarily beneficial to the Ukrainian State. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u170	Thank you, Taras Viacheslavovich. Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Stojko Ivan Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u171	Thank you. Stojko, group “For Ukraine!” Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I fully support both the Ministry and Mr. Taras, because, in fact, today, during the financial and economic crisis, the world, I stress, we really need investment. It's very good that trade is between our nations, it's increasing every year. But today we have to talk about investment, about protecting these investments in particular, because I was also really sad to hear that one of the ministers is talking about, let's say, blowing up and stuff. So we have to protect the investment itself if they go out of this country and work together. Therefore, the “For Ukraine!” and the “Our Ukraine” faction will support the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u172	Thank you. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, who forced me to go up to this rostrum during the discussion, would seem to be a secondary issue. What effect do we try to achieve when we ratify all of these just ratified agreements? Especially the last bill is eloquent. We're trying to achieve a good effect, we're trying to get involved in Ukraine's investment. So far we have a completely different situation: investments are escaping from Ukraine. Why? Please tell me, can an investor come here with such a weak energy policy that government officials today are conducting toward their own manufacturer? We sell about 4 kilowatts of electricity abroad. A special price of 10 cents was set for the antifreeze aluminum combination. It's about the same price, it's a private enterprise, it's not good, it's an oligarchy. But the same price was set in the Zaporozhye State Treasury Company “Titanomagnesium Combine”. Is that right? Is the investor coming to work here, 10 cents? On the engine complex today, the price of electricity reaches 11 cents. Is it surprising, then, that the total volume of industrial production in engineering and metallurgy declined by almost 50 percent? Another question that applies to all of us. Saudi Arabia Are we going to be involved in some kind of development that we, for example, invest there. Or what we get from the report. Dear colleagues! We have about 20 billion cubic metres of self-produced gas in Ukraine, the price of about 70 dollars per thousand cubes. So why is it that the population now, according to the additional agreements under the NCRE Regulation, has increased by 7 percent, as it has already been said, but several times?Oh, my God! Is that normal?Oh, my God! Is it wiser than that? Well, there's one more thing. Today, metallurgical enterprises pay for electricity, pay for gas, well, 100 dollars more. One hundred, about twenty dollars more are paid by machinery companies. Colleagues, if we really want an investor to come to us, we need to keep busy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u174	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments. Registration number 0114. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:11:00]] For three hundred Dear colleagues, in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council, we are now scheduled to return to the ratification of the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe because we have come to the conclusion that bats were not to blame for the situation that was in the Supreme Council. I invite you to report, please, for John Alexander the Hare's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u175	Dear National Deputies! John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I understand that your applause is saying that we will no longer marvel at the ratification of the amendment to the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe, for in this interfaith political struggle we have forgotten that only a clean environment and only a powerful natural resource base guarantees us health and guarantees the future of the nation. Now for the text. Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act on the adoption of an amendment to the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe, introduced by the President of Ukraine. Ukraine has identified its position on the need to preserve and protect the populations of species of hand-winged species in Europe and within the territory of the foreign European States as early as 1999, ratifying the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe by the law of Ukraine since 14.05. In 1999 Since then, Ukraine has been actively involved in efforts to preserve the bat population and to combat the destruction of their villages in the city. More than a decade of experience in the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe has revealed certain shortcomings or gaps in this agreement that need to be rectified immediately. Thus, the third session of the Council of the Parties to the Treaty for the Conservation of Bats in Europe, which was held in Bristol in July 2000, made an amendment to the agreement. In line with this amendment proposed for adoption, it is envisaged that the name of the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe should be changed to the Treaty on the Conservation of the Population of European Bats. To specify the variety of bats in a separate appendix to the agreement that will help preserve the handwings that meet in Europe and during their migrations in the territories of the European States. In addition, changes are proposed regarding the procedure for the adoption and validity of amendments to the Agreement and its Appendices. Since there was no appendix at the time of the signing of the agreement earlier, it was not necessary to prescribe the procedure for making changes to the plugins.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u176	Finish it, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u177	In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, this bill is intended to introduce the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe, in accordance with the amendment made to the Agreement. Today, Ukraine has not yet consolidated its desire and is still actively fighting for the protection and protection of bats. In general, Ukraine’s adoption of the amendment will help to preserve and protect all populations of bat species in Europe and in the extra-European states of the area. I want to let you know that the bill is agreed upon without notice by all the ministries concerned, and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration supports this bill. And that's why I'm asking you to vote it and especially the Party of Regions. Remember, in 2007, it was the decision of the government of Yanukovic to ratify the convention. So let us not make fun of people, vote, and say thank you to all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u178	Is there a need to discuss? I put to the vote the draft law on the adoption of the amendment to the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats in Europe, registration number 0109. Please vote. [[13:15:24]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] . There are 224, no decisions made. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, calm down! Please take your seats. Since the reporter turned to the faction, the faction is a replica. Please, who's with the faction of the replica? We have the most numerous factions in the Supreme Council, called the faction of the Party of Regions, to which the reporter referred. Please report to the People's Deputies, Koleznichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, you know, don't mention the Lord in any way. When you speak of the government of Yanukovic, he did not plan the crisis you planned and organized in the country. The Government of Timoshenko has done its utmost not only to kill people but to starve, even bats. Therefore, today it is the top of cynicism to accuse someone of their own sins. Repent before the people, cross the forehead and explain to the people why you want to destroy Ukraine from hunger? And those who are spoken will live without you, thank God. Today it's cynical and immoral when Ukraine dies to talk about some bats. Thank you. Ukraine and its people are key to the Party of the Regions, not bats.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u180	Thank you. Ukrainian national deputies propose to return to the vote. I'm voting on the proposal to return to the vote on the ratification of the agreement. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:17:34]] For 239. Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Act adopting an amendment to the Treaty on the Conservation of Bats of Europe. [[Registration number 0109]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:18:02]] For 239. Decision taken. It's being announced. The factions, please. Please use fractions: Region Party – 1, "Timoshenko Yulia Block" – 153, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 67, communists – 0, "Litvina Block" – 18. The draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on Improving the Prosperity of Mining Work is being published, according to Ukrainian National Deputy Volinec Mikhailo Jakovic. [[Registration number 3199]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u181	Good afternoon, dear friends! On September 2 and 5, last year, you and I considered a bill to enhance the prestige of mining, and all five factions voted in favour of this law. At the same time, not all the provisions of this law are fulfilled. It has been found that there are not enough mechanisms for carrying out certain items. And so under the authority of the National Deputy Turmanov, Andrija Kožemyakina, Natalya Královska, Zvigilski and also through my participation in the changes to the Mining Work Act. Here's what's proposed. I'll speak very quickly. First. Taking into account the interests of mining rescuers. This is a category of 5,000 workers who did not fall under this law. They will have an additional right to a higher pension. Let's move on. The minimum wage for underground miners is projected to increase by 30 percent. It's also like a base to raise all the wages. This affects all miners from the mining of iron ore, marganese, zirconium, uranium, different-colored metals, and coal, and so forth. Let's move on. It is envisaged to provide housing for those who have received occupational diseases in the enterprise. Another position. It is intended to satisfy and provide housing for those who have received a professional illness at the company and who have died. This is a benefit for his family. Next. Gas compensation. The mining law provides that miners living in central heating buildings are entitled to compensation for the use of gas, electricity. This standard is applied only to individual coal mines. Here's the mechanism. Next. The miners often need to move coal from one area to another. For example, a person earned an internship in the Lugansk or Donetsk region, then moved to Volin, and the director of the mine was obliged to an organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u182	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u183	The director of the mine is obliged to take this coal to another area. We predicted that compensation could be made and that this amount of money would be absorbed into the common income and should not be taxed. The next one is very important. Reduced income tax. tax for miners who are employed underground from 15 to 10 percent. An extremely important law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u184	Please sit down. A report from the Committee on Fuel and Energy - Victor Ivanovich Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u185	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues! Well, I want to say very briefly about these amendments, what Mikhail Jakovic Volynec has just reported. We passed this law in this room, you remember, all impulsively, the entire Supreme Council. But what I want to say today is that the law has been passed, but it is virtually not working today because it is not financed. That's the first one. Second. I would like all members of the Supreme Council to know that, starting this year, we have received such a budget that we are virtually unable to pay wages to miners. Today the debt is: 50 per cent had not yet been paid in December; 50 per cent had not been paid in January. The debt is 1 billion 465 million bracelets. I recently came from the western regions, where I met miners, into the Stepova mine. I'd like someone to say today that everything is great and beautiful, we need to go down there and talk to the miners. You'll all be told what you should do here in the Supreme Council, and I, too, and how we should do it. With regard to the amendments, I would like to welcome those amendments, because we accepted them at the time – we had limited time to make the law work, in principle, I think it will work. Therefore, this law is adopted today both in first reading and in general, and as a law, i.e. amendments to the whole to be adopted. I would ask that we all support how beautifully we did it in the presence of miners here on 2 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u186	A report from the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u187	Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, the Mining Labour Authority Act of September joined the Hall. At the time, we did not share party affiliation, but we realized that our decision depended on the future of mining work for the Ukrainian industry. And today, I would like to mention a few figures on what has been done and how we have had an impact on the credibility of mining work on the lives of miners. Recalculated pension for miners, 227,000 miners on List 1 receive on average more than 364 pension bracelets. The 2009 budget fully funded the Pension Fund for all elevated pensions under the Mining Productivity Act, and 615 disabled members of mine families whose deaths resulted from an accident at the enterprise are now receiving a pension supplement of an average of 498 grivens. The Ministry of Education and Science has changed the conditions for admission to higher education institutions and since 2009 the right to enter higher education institutions will be granted to all persons under the bill. I believe that we have taken a step forward and we have been able to support indeed both pensioners and miners in general. In 2008, the average monthly wage for workers in underground enterprises increased by 46.8 per cent, while cleaning workers rose by 49.4 per cent. We understand that today, in a crisis, that is not enough. We therefore propose the adoption of the rules, the amendments that are laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u188	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Committee Decision: Adopt the bill as a whole. Please sign up for the discussion. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u189	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Honorable colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, will certainly support this law, as supported by all previous steps aimed at enhancing the prestige of mining. But in favour of these changes to the basic law, we have to ask ourselves and answer quite honestly some questions, perhaps unpleasant to us: what does the third appearance of this law mean in six months in the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? This means a lack of work. Why did it come about, this lack? And it was because obviously, part of the initiators, I don't want to generalize, but part of the initiators that I wanted to do first is not solve the mining problems, but fight the problem. And that's why the law came out the way it is. Of course, there is a need to support the problem of improving the pensions of coal miners, which is clearly a problem of compensation for those miners who live in utility buildings, compensation for electricity and gas, of course, needs to be addressed. But this is just part of the iceberg, the most important problem we have. The problem that we have to solve is to return the entire state to this area. I really hope that today, when we start talking about the need to burn boilers with straws, drunks, scraps, and tomorrow, perhaps give your word, let's say. I want to hope that the state will return face to miners, to the sector that is provided with raw materials, even in search of resources for several decades. So let's go into this problem in a very complex way and get our faces back to this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u190	Quiet Paul Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u191	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Paul Mokchan, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Yesterday, I watched a direct broadcast from the Russian channel from Dannover, where the President of the United States signed a series of anti-crisis measures yesterday, including alternative energy. Solar energy, wind energy will be widely used in that overpowering, economically developed state. I understand what you're saying, this is my colleague from the faction, I'm not going to call it a name, you're talking about our coal reserves, which are obviously very important, very important for our agriculture. And it's clear that this bill that we're considering today, when we voted not in euphoria, we voted with a clear understanding that this is our forward-looking energy supply. But we've released a whole bunch of those units from this law that risk their lives just as much as those who get coal. And that's exactly what this bill is about, which was just presented to us by Michael Volintz. And I urge you, Your Honor, to support these amendments. It's not because we're so lazy, not because we're talking about one category of miners by letting out of the sight of those who are saving, those who are no less at risk when they're cooking lava, those who're involved in other structures, and they're also working in the lower horizons. And that's why I think this bill is worth supporting today, not carrying it, as the expert board suggests for tomorrow, the first, the second, the third reading, it needs to be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u192	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u193	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders of Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense. Dear National Deputies! I want to thank Mr. Wolinz, Turmanov, King's, Cosmackin, Zvegilski -- I want to thank everyone for introducing this law, but I want to study the hot heads that now offer to accept it in all readings and as a law. This cannot be done in view of the following things. You've looked at how much the law is going to cost, this is going to cost 52.7 million. I counted it a little differently, and I can see it's in order above. We need to grant subsidies to local budgets in accordance with article 48 of the mining law of 22 thousand 946. Are you ready for this? Do we have them in our budget? We hear the conclusion of the Minister of Finance, where is this conclusion, where is the conclusion of the Committee of Budgets? I'm against pro-sales to get people to like it, it's propaganda. And I would like to draw the attention of all the national MPs, first of all, I would like to draw the attention of the Attorney General of Ukraine to what is happening today in Kiev, that we will have a direct relation to the budget, because we will soon find nothing. You know, on February 15, there was a rally in Kiev, which was on schedule. He's getting ready tomorrow, he's getting 300 people in all the hospitals to show up. Yesterday, Chernewsky had already released the head of the “Rapid Help” hospital to the Versigore. Now four, the first stork, Shabula, the pulmonary hospital, Djomina, the sixth hospital, the Tsaruka and so on, Bondarenko. There's a release, that's how things are done. Unless we find these funds when we approach Kiev. That's why I propose in the first reading we accept -- once. Next, we're going to make suggestions, we're going to hear that Minfin will give us, and all of us, we're going to post with the State Budget, with the local budgets, because there's subsidies standing there, we have to put them there, not just say we promised people something and we didn't give them. There is a very hard work to do, and this work must be respected. And I'm addressing the Attorney General of Ukraine, and I'm asking you, Mr. Medvedzko, to file a criminal case for forcing people to participate.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u194	The discussion is over. I am voting for the adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Promotion, Prosperity of Mining. Registration No. 3199. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:33:27]] For 351 Decision taken. The Professional Committee proposes the adoption of this draft law as a whole. There's a denial of national MPs. There's a denial, so please. Please have a proposal from the voting procedure to make a statement. Voting procedure, please. Please sign in. National deputy of Jazynowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u195	National Deputy Volodymyr Jazynowski Group “For Ukraine”. Dear colleagues! If we care about a Ukrainian miner, let's make sure that he is a miner as a worker, not as a villain, and everyone here in the Supreme Council likes to spend some money. This year, the miners' technique, they don't have the technology in the budget, they don't have the coal cost for the first quarter alone, and we think about how to give the miners the money, but we don't give them the opportunity to make that money. Let's all go together here, along with the Ministry of Finance, if that doesn't work. A minister who logically and unambiguously can prove to this session hall how should we work for our energy security of the state, how should the Ukrainian energy sector be involved in this, namely, the coal sector? And then we can work together together to make a decision, not make a fever in making such decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u196	Victor Ivanovich Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u197	Dear colleagues! I immediately approached my colleague and explained that the subsidy had already been voted on in the second September mainly by the law of prestige. We're making amendments today, and today we're breaking up, and we're just saying it wrong. I say again, the miners are waiting for these changes today. Because part of the profession fell off the list, and such workers as the mining unit today fell off the list. We are bringing, and by subsidy, I say once again, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers are sitting here, and they know that these subsidies were still adopted, through subsidies to the local councils of September 2nd last year in this room. When it voted, almost a hundred percent of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I ask, there is a decision of the Committee to make these amendments as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u198	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u199	Thank you! Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues! We rarely have the image of this bill in the session room. The bill is put into practice and supported by the government, and on the other hand the bill is supported by opposition. I think this case should be used and adopted by the bill. Since this law is already being passed in addition to the law that we voted on over 400 votes in the session room, I do not see the need to work on it yet. Because it's essentially a revised law to the basic one that works. Another problem is that, unfortunately, and this law, like many others, does not work in our country, our colleague Cibenko spoke about it. But what we need now is to accept and not create new papers, so let's take it in general right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u200	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! The Yulia Timoshenko Block proposes to stop the practice of enacting laws on first and second readings, because we are then getting enough quality legislation that requires further elaboration. I would like to support my colleague, Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich, that indeed all the rules laid down in this bill were voted on 2 September and all the subsidies in the budget, according to the Law of September, are provided for. But there is also a proposal, let us order the committee to finalize the bill by the next sessional week and to consider it and adopt it next sessional week so as not to allow any misunderstandings to be allowed again and not to return to that law for the third time. In the course of the week, all operationally, we will finalize the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u202	Dear colleagues! The government’s authorized representative is asking for words on this matter. Are there going to be objections? There's no objection. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u203	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 of this Law is wrong, he repeats the standards of article 6 of the Law on Pay for Work. We think the author of the legislative initiative here was going to say quite different. So we ask you to adopt this bill in the first reading, and we will work it out as necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in view of the denial of the national MPs as a whole, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadline for preparing this draft law to the second reading in accordance with the Rules. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:39:53]] For 321 Decision taken. I'm asking the profile committee to quickly prepare for the next plenary week so that next plenary Tuesday we can adopt this whole bill. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, Registration No. 3253, is being announced for consideration, according to Ukrainian National Deputy Zarubinsky Oleg Aleksandrovich. [[concerning the hourly payment of work]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u205	Honourable Alexandre Volodymyrovich, honourable colleagues, this bill, announced by the chairman, is proposed by amending the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act, the Ukrainian Labour Code and the Ukrainian Budget Code to create legal preconditions for the introduction of an hourly wage in our country. In particular, the Ukrainian Budget Code proposes to provide for a mandatory definition of the State Budget Act not only a minimum monthly but also an hourly wage. In our view, this is particularly important in part-time employment, unfortunately, for workers in times of economic crisis and production cuts. I would like to point out that the monthly salary, the minimum monthly salary, is also offered to enter an hourly wage. I mean, in principle, it's not a radical change, but the changes that I've already said create the necessary legal conditions or preconditions, even the introduction and introduction of hourly pay in Ukraine. Legislation, the legislative establishment of a guaranteed minimum hourly wage for hired workers will allow, as we all understand, better to ensure that their constitutional rights are respected and, at the same time, will be a step towards bringing Ukrainian legislation closer to international standards, because you all know that in most of the world's leading countries, the hourly wages are also set. And most importantly, the legislative definition of the size not only of the minimum monthly wage, but also of the minimum hourly wage, will allow the social protection of the working population to be strengthened. I am grateful for the positive assessment of the profile committee and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u206	Finish up, Oleg Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u207	And what he's proposing to adopt this bill on the basis of I, as the subject of the legislative initiative, realize that there are things there that need to be adjusted in preparation for the second reading, which also offers scientific expertise. So I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues today to accept this bill as a basis in the first reading, with further work on it. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u208	Thank you. Have a seat, please. A report from the Committee, Vladimir Stanislavovich Maruschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u209	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Social Policy and Work at its meeting on 3 December considered the bill, registered number 3253 by the national deputies Oleg Zarubinsky and Yuri Litvin. The proposed bill proposes amendments to the Ukrainian Labour Pay Act, the Labour Codes and the Budget Code to create legal preconditions for minimum hourly wages. According to the author, the legislative establishment of a guaranteed minimum hourly wage for employed workers will allow better enforcement of their constitutional rights while at the same time bringing Ukrainian legislation closer to international standards. The Committee believes that the legislative definition of the size not only of the minimum monthly wage but also of the minimum hourly wage will allow the social protection of the working population to be strengthened. However, it should be noted that the bill has some flaws. In particular, the authors propose to amend part three of the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work and part three of article 95 of the Labour Code, which has been excluded under the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine No. 2190 of 18.11.2004. In addition, it should be noted that existing legislation provides for the possibility of setting both monthly and hourly minimum wages. [[Article 3 of the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act]] The regulation needs to be the question of how to determine the size and application of the minimum hourly wage, based on the fact that the standard of working time varies by month, by year and for individual categories of workers there is a reduced duration of working time, but there are no such rules in the bill. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill can be considered as a basis. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Justice and Economics of Ukraine, the Confederation of Employers of Ukraine believes that the draft law needs further work. The Ukrainian Ministry of Finance does not support the bill. The National Tripartite Socio-Economic Council of the President of Ukraine and the All-Ukrainian Union of Trade Unions consider it inappropriate to adopt the draft law today. In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of the first part.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u210	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u211	Adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u212	Have a seat, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u213	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, town of Kirovograd. Of course, the subject that Zarubinsky and other authors have violated in their draft legislation is of course very relevant. It has long been discussed and it is, indeed, a world form that is truly just and long - justified in many countries of the world. And we're going through this, we're going through this, we're going to be on the verge of this problem, and we're not going over this threshold. As a result, what our authors have done seems very relevant to me. However, I would just like to remind myself. Regrettably, let me not be offended by my colleague and countryman Zarubinsky, or quite timely today during this time of our chaos today, for example, by adopting this bill immediately in the first and second readings. We were already convinced that we were in a hurry very often, and then we had to return to the car when the car was loaded with this car. We've just returned to a bill on the prestige of miners. Because of this, I am absolutely convinced that in order not to let life pass through this bill, I am convinced that it really needs to be accepted today in the first reading, to keep it on a certain level, so that the committee can work on it so that each of us, the national MPs, can add their amendments to them, then calmly consider them in the second reading. Once again, this form of new Ukrainian society is not used to it. And so that we don't make mistakes again because, it would seem, a very progressive bill, we didn't lead to a deterioration in the economic situation of our fellow citizens, so that "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" will vote in favour of the first reading, and then we will talk about how our collective mind is in the second reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u214	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, in fact, in this session room, such attempts have been made repeatedly to introduce a new norm. And you can just, in fact, celebrate the persistence of a colleague of Zarubinsky, who, with this bill, doesn't go out on the rostrum for the first time. I would like to emphasise the introduction of such a norm as a state standard as an hourly pay for work is entirely in line with the Constitution, in particular Article 1, which states, among other things, that Ukraine is a social state, article 43, where it is a matter of fair compensation for the work that has been spent, for the power that has been spent on good conscience. The bill itself is fully in line with the basic law on State social standards and State social guarantees. One more. Colleagues, you and I have ratified the European Social Charter in this room, remember. One of the requirements, I'm not saying, among other things, is that we had to put in place a mandatory public health insurance, and we had to make an hourly payment of work as a new mandatory public standard. But I asked for another reason today. We today, we have reasons and we have the opportunity to talk about something else, about the need to reform the pay system in Ukraine. Because, on the one hand, it doesn't help to recreate the labor force, pay the work, the system. On the other hand, it is very common to increase regardless of cost. One more. We have unacceptable disparities between wages in regions, between wages, between professions. And it's scary, colleagues, we have a Latin American version. We have a ratio between rich and poor 70 and 1. It's the threat of a revolutionary situation. In Europe, this is 4 to 1. Why did this happen? But because the units of cost are dominated by energy, the percentage of bank credit, taxes, depreciation. And only 7-10 percent is the pay. From this bill we should start reforming the pay system. That's the concept. It simply needs to be implemented gradually. The law must be adopted in the first instance.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u216	Naydenov Andry Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u217	Please pass the word to Katherine Semenovne Samoylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u218	Katerina Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u219	Thank you, Andrey Mikhailovich, dear colleagues and everyone who listens to us. Perhaps six months ago, or a year ago, this law was very relevant and should have been adopted, perhaps in the first reading and furthered. And so that it's comfortable, above all, for our people. Those who work in businesses are really busy working. But now that our economy is in deep crisis, and we know that such conclusions are not only made by us, but also by international financial organizations, almost all enterprises are closed, especially machine-building. You've seen, for example, "Freedom" on "Inter," and you've seen what's going on, for example, in our Herson machine factory or the Herson combine plant. But this is just one example. There are many such examples. We also know that many businesses are practically working for a reduced week. And it comes to just one week, one day a week they work, and then a few hours -- three or four hours. So is there anything that people will get from us that we're going to be working on this bill right now? On the contrary, we need to protect people today, so that there is no mass liberation. And today, indeed, there is a mass liberation of our people. And I think it's very right, I should, I liked that when this bill was drafted, our public organizations were involved in the expertise of this bill, and we need to listen to the thought of professional associations that find it inappropriate to adopt this bill. And with all due respect to my colleagues, I'd like not to vote for this today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u220	Vazievsky Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u221	Vladimir Vyezivsky, MP for Ukraine!, faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! When we adopt every bill, we have to think about what benefits and minuses the Ukrainian community will get, especially workers, when we worry about paying for it properly. Today we can say the following. When we adopt this bill, we open up a niche for further discussion, which is correct and correct for the introduction of an hourly wage, but we ask neither ourselves nor anyone else: What will happen next? Just as we are now not being asked by employers or by trade unions to support or not to support the bill. Because the truth is, when we ask questions about hourly pay, we have to think about the same miners who have a six - hour workday. And what would their minimum wage be in one day? What about those who work with a 12 - or 24 - hour watch method for an hour period that they will have an hourly wage and a month total what will be theirs? We have to think about those people who are going to retire and in the future, whether or not they're going to have full employment before they get a pension. We ask ourselves more questions than we answer by adopting this bill. So given today's socio-economic situation in the state, I'm going to propose to you, colleagues, that I abstain from voting for this bill. There's going to be better times, there's going to be requests from both employers, and there's going to be trades about introducing such an initiative into the legislative field, we're going to vote, and it's going to be an initiative, not to appeal to someone, but to the demands of those we came here to work for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u222	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on hourly pay, registration number 3253. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:55:30.]] For 303 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 117, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 153, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 14, Communist faction – 0, “Litvina Block” – 19. The morning plenary session continues for 15 minutes. The draft Law on the State Privatization Programme for 2008-2012, registration number 2330, is being announced for consideration. Reported by the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u223	Dear Alexander Valentine's Day, distinguished national MPs, I have asked to speak to me at the conclusion of today's session, so that we can start the matter, and tomorrow we will continue it in the morning, because it is very important, very principled and requires the deputies to concentrate attention, professional approach. You know, privatization issues are now, as always, relevant, many MPs express their positions on television, they say things. I would like them to adopt, engage in the discussion of the State Programme for changes in legislation professionally, through amendments to the State Privatization Programme submitted by the government. The Economic Policy Committee, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council, has prepared for the second reading a draft of the State Privatisation Program 2008-12 and proposes to adopt it as a law. The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council on the first reading of June 3, 2008, setting goals, tasks, priorities, and conditions for the privatization of state property for five years. The bill received 64 proposals: 12 from the President of Ukraine, 52 from the Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, 27 are included, 12 are included in part or in fact, 25 are rejected. Individually, we should stop at the proposals of the President of Ukraine. They arrived after an expiration date -- two weeks -- and the Economic Policy Committee, commissioned by the then Supreme Council Head, was forced to consider the president's amendments for the second time because they were sent with a violation of the deadline. In fact, the President's amendments are presented to us as a new text of the privatization programme and are set out in 45 pages. The first reading of the program, however, includes pages 16 of the program. The essence of the proposals lies in the adoption of the State Privatization Program in a new edition, i.e. the concept of the project compared to that adopted in the first reading changes dramatically. In particular, there are 53 points on the program, and the President proposes more than 150. Moreover, the President's proposals are not in line with the basic draft Law on Privatisation of State Property, which the Supreme Council will consider after considering the bill and is adopted in the first reading. That's why most of the president's amendments had to be rejected, and I'm stressing that, and I want to pay attention to that. Now, for the beginning of the review of the amendments, I would like to say that since 2008 has ended while we were looking at the State Privatization Program for the Scientific and Experimental Administration and I am asking you to vote first, if there are now votes, changes in the name of the program and call it "2009-2013", because we cannot accept the program as a back number, and most importantly, we have legislation that the program is adopted for 5 years, i.e. automatics.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u224	Of course, Alexander Mikhailovich. Let's move on to the amendments. Dear colleagues, Amendment No. 1 of the President of Ukraine has been counted. Is there a denial? None. There's a denial. Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u225	Thank you. Alexander Volodymyrovich, first of all, I'm not about to be amended, but about the name of the law. I'd like to get your attention, it'd be very unserious, but you and I already had one conflict last night when we were correcting the law. Well, we can't accept the privatization programme for a year that's gone by.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u226	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The reporter said that. And obviously, after considering the amendments, we're going to vote separately on the name of the law. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we just didn't have an amendment to the name, so it's now made by the reporter, and we're going to vote on it in writing, which is in the table. After the first amendment to take into account the president's amendment, there is no objection? None. Second amendment to Deputy Bondara counted. Is there no objection? None. According to the third amendment of the Marmazov People’s Deputy, is there a denial of consideration? None. Fourth amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. Is there a miscalculation? None. Fifth amendment to Marmazova. Is there a miscalculation? None. The sixth amendment of the national deputies of Akimov and Noviková Overruled. Julia Volodymyrna Novikova, would you agree with the committee's decision? It's okay. The seventh amendment is partially counted. [[of the People's Deputy Marmazov]] Please, Eugene Vasilovich Marmazov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u227	Dear comrades, well, over the course of 16 years, we privatized or, let's just say, sold 5.3 billion euros from a mall. And all this money went to offset the budget deficit, and frankly, we did spend all that money. 75 per cent of the enterprises in the population have gone through. So our Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council for the Control of Privatization has carefully summarized the draft law and made comments. The essence of these is, first of all, to stop the objects of the people's economy. And if we get money from privatization, we send it to a structural restructuring of the economy. This is a matter of principle. That is why I have made a note of the seventh point in order to omit the word that the money from privatization should not be channelled to "satisfying the needs of society" but to "structural reconstruction of the economy". It is written, “in part”, that is, how did they count? So it's to meet the needs of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u228	Complete, please, Eugene Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u229	So please, I insist that I vote in favour of my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u230	Amendment 7 of the Marmazov People's Deputy is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:03:05]] For-75 Correction not supported. Amendment number 8. Is there a miscalculation? Amendment number 8. Is there a miscalculation? Are there any objections to the 8th amendment? Please, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u231	At the 8th amendment, although the committee's decision is included, there is a denial by the Scientific and Experimental Authority that this is contrary to the budget, where the costs of privatization are sent to the budget. And what's going to the Stability Fund is the 2009 norm. So the suggestion: to reject this amendment, to take into account that my 48th proposal on page 78 actually takes this amendment into account, because it says that it's going to budget, except for cases provided for by individual laws, and it's going to absorb this amendment. Therefore, the suggestion is that this amendment is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u232	Amendment No. 8 of the People's Deputies of Akim and Novikovo are to be voted on. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u233	I don't vote. [[14:04:27]] For-66
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u234	The decision is not taken. The ninth amendment is included in part. Julia Volodymyr Novikov, do you insist? No, it doesn't. The tenth amendment of the President of Ukraine is partially taken into account. There is no representative of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u235	The president doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u236	The 11th amendment of the people’s MP Marmazov was rejected. Do you insist on voting? Please, the microphone of Eugene Vasilovich Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u237	Well, 11 amendments are the same thing as ideology. Well, it is proposed that high-lying facilities be put on privatization to implement the privatization money-filling plan. Well, I'm, uh, my amendment suggests that we drop this, because if we're already selling high-level enterprises to close the budget deficit, then what can we talk about? That means we're going to sell the Odessa Portion Factory, we're going to sell VAT, Turboat and Dneproenergo, and so on, and so on, to cover. I therefore suggest that this should be deleted, which means that 17 subparagraphs should be deleted, and that further text should be deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u238	The 11th amendment of the Marmazov People’s Deputy is a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:06:00]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 12th amendment counted. Is there a denial? None. The 13th amendment of the people's MP Marmazov has been rejected. Is Eugene Vasilovich okay with this? Microphone, please, Eugene Vasilovich Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u239	No, I'm not insisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u240	Don't you insist? No, it's not. The next amendment to the 14th is partially counted. Julia Volodymyr Novikov, do you insist? No, it doesn't. The 15th amendment of National Deputy Shamanov has been rejected. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. The 16th amendment of the President of Ukraine is partially taken into account. Don't insist, yes. The 17th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Akimov and Novikovo, taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 18th amendment of the President of Ukraine is rejected, there is no one to argue with. The 19th amendment counted partially. Julia Volodymyrna, don't you agree? It's okay. The 20th amendment of the Marmazov People's Deputy, rejected. Eugene Vasilovich, don't you agree? It's okay. The 21st amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy has been taken into account. Is there a denial? None. The 22nd amendment of the people's MP Marmazov was rejected. Eugene Vasilovich, right? I'm good. The 23rd amendment of the President of Ukraine was rejected. The 24th amendment of the Marmazov People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. The 25th Amendment of the People's Deputies of Akimov and Novikova is partially taken into account. Julia Volodymyrna, don't you mind? You don't mind. The 26th amendment of the Marmazov People's Deputy is partially accounted for. Eugene Vasilovich agrees. The 27th amendment of the people's MP Marmazov has been rejected. Eugene Vasilovich agrees. The 28th amendment of the people's MP Marmazov was rejected. Do you agree? It's okay. The 29th amendment of the President of Ukraine was rejected. It's conceptually the whole text. The 30th amendment of the Marmazov People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. 31st Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy, accounted for. Is there a denial? None. 32nd Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy, accounted for. Is there a denial? None. The 33rd amendment of the people's MP Marmazov was rejected. Eugene Vasilovich? Don't insist. 34th Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy, accounted for. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 35th amendment of the people's MP Marmazov has been rejected. Eugene Vasilovich agrees. The 36th amendment of the people's MP Marmazov has been rejected. It's okay. The 37th amendment of the Marmazov People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? There are no objections to accounting. The 38th Amendment of People's Deputy Shamanov has been rejected. Don't insist. The 39th Amendment of the Marmazov People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? No, it's not. The 40th amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy counts. Is there a denial? None. The 41st amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy has been taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 42nd Amendment of the Marmazov People's Deputy counts. Is there no objection? None. The 43rd amendment of the people's MP Marmazov has been rejected. Eugene Vasilovich, insist? No, it doesn't. The 44th Amendment of People's Deputy Shamanov has been rejected. It doesn't matter. The 45th Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy accounted for. Is there a denial? None. The 46th amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy has been taken into account. Is there a denial? There's no objection. The 47th amendment of the President of Ukraine was rejected. There's no one to insist. The 48th amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy has been taken into account. Is there a denial? None. The 49th amendment of People's Deputy Lavrinovich was rejected. Don't insist. The 50th amendment of the President of Ukraine was rejected. Don't insist. 51st Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? We don't insist. 52nd Amendment of People's Deputy Lavrinovich. Don't insist. 53rd Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 54th Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? None. 55th Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? None. 56th Amendment of the Marmazov People's Deputy. Declined. Eugene Vasilovich, do you insist? No, it doesn't. 57th Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 58th Amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy. Counted. Is there a denial? There's no objection. 59th Amendment of the Marmazov People's Deputy. Partially counted. Do you agree? It's okay. The 60th Amendment of the President of Ukraine. Counted. Is there a denial? None. 61st Amendment of the President of Ukraine. Declined. There's no one to insist. 62nd Amendment of the President of Ukraine. Overruled. 63rd Amendment of National Deputy Shamanov. It's taken into account essentially. A national MP does not insist. The 64th Amendment of the President of Ukraine. Overruled. So you and I have considered all the amendments that have come to this law. I am voting on the amendment concerning the title of the bill. It's about taking into account the proposal by the rapporteur for the State Privatisation Programme 2009-2013. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. [[14:13:45]] For 221 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! After all, it's an obvious thing. The point is that 2008 has passed, that we have changed the name that will match the realities of today. It's not about approval of the bill, it's about changing the name that fits today. There is an offer to return to the vote. Please, who wants to go back to voting on this amendment, please vote. [[14:14:42]] For 228 Decision taken. This amendment applies not only to names but also to references to text, of course. This concludes the consideration of all the amendments. Now I ask you to be careful about voting for acceptance. Oh, I'm sorry, we're back to voting. I would like to vote on the amendment of the Bondar People's Deputy to the title of the bill and the references throughout the text concerning the years for which this law is approved. This is about instead of 2008-2012 being 2009-2013. Please vote. [[14:15:38]] For 226 Decision taken. This is how the vote on the second reading of the National Privatisation Programme Project 2009-2013 is now put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:16:12]] For 228 Decision taken. There is a need to reconcile within this project according to the Rules and send a bill for third reading, is there a possibility of adoption as a whole? Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u241	Nothing needs to be reconciled and sent to the third reading, that's the committee's decision. I would like to ask the following drafts, directly related to the State Program, to start tomorrow morning so that we do not break the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-02-18-m0.u242	Thank you! Have a seat, please. I'm voting on adoption as a whole, as the Act of the State Privatization Program 2009-1013. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:17:13]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! 14 o'clock, 17 minutes, the morning plenary session is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the next plenary session will begin.
