ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[16:00:40]] There are 432 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. A draft decree on the renaming of the village of Berestek in the region of Ivano-Frankiv district is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4442]] Reported by the Secretary of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government, Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u2	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Ivano-Frankiv District Council violated before the Supreme Council of Ukraine the concern about the renaming of the village of Berestek of the Upper Province of Ivano-Frankiv region to the village of Dembrona. The village of Berestecko is one of the tourist centers of the Carpathians, which is listed in all routes as the village of Dembrona. Dembrona is one of the historical ingredients of the village of Berestecka Dembrona, renamed by decree of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR of June 7, 1946. The name of the village of Beresteczko was not found among the locals and numerous tourists. The village of Beresteczko has the status of a mountain settlement, which is located in the area of 843 hectares [10 km]. The village has 112 courtyards with 245 inhabitants and has a church, a school, a library, a rural club, a FAP, two shopping spots, a Pilorama. The Gembrona Rapid is being built. Questions about the renaming of the village of Beresteczko were initiated and supported by residents of the local referendum, which took place on February 18, 2007. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Government agreed with the proposal of the local authorities and local authorities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a positive solution to this issue and supported the concern of the District Council of Ivano-Frankiv about the change of the village of Berestek to the village of Dembrona.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, no objections, no warnings? There is a motion for a committee to adopt a draft decree to rename the village of Berestek of the Upper East region of Ivano-Frankiv region to the name of the village of Dembrona. Well, it's a historical name for a village. [[16:04:03]] For 303 Decision taken. Next order 4443. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u4	The Lugansk District Council violated the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s concerns about the appointment of the settlement site of the Sverdlov City Council of the Luhansk district of Kalinnik. The Kalinnik site was established more than 50 years ago as the branch office of the Provalsky Council. The Kalinnik settlement is 5 kilometers south of the village of Provalla. At present, there are 86 citizens living in this settlement, and there are 46 courtyards. There is now a store, a cannery, a farm, and a farm in the area of the village. On April 13, 2007, in the eastern part of the population living in the area, concerns were raised about the assignment of the village of Kalinnik, which had been in use. Taking into account the repeated appeals made by the territorial community, the question of the assignment of the village of Kalinnik, it is supported by the Proval Village, Sverdlovska City, and Lugansk District Councils. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Government agreed with the proposal of the Office for Local Authorities and Local Self - Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a positive solution to this issue and supported the Luhansk District Council's concern at assigning a name to the settlement site of the Sverdlov City Council of the Lugansk region of Kalinnik. The given name is first set.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, no warning? A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the assignment of the name of the area of Sverdlov in the Lugansk region is put to the vote. [[Registration number 4443]] Please vote. [[16:06:39]] For 313 Decision taken. A draft Decree on the establishment of the border of Primorsk Primorski district of Zaporzik Region is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The question of the territorial system is too important a matter of state for today. And it's very good that in our Parliament there's already a bill by the people's deputy, Grizzenka, on the territorial system. At our committee hearings, we heard a draft of the State's administrative and territorial structure prepared by the Ministry of Regional Construction. And today statistics show that out of 178 cities of regional importance, only 76 borders are defined, representing 42 percent. Of the 263 cities in the district centers, 99 are identified, accounting for 38 percent. Of Ukraine’s population of 29 thousand 176, only 19 thousand 716 have been designated. According to the Constitution, we had to have a partition between the lands of state ownership and utilities, which was 30 million hectares. For today’s day, work is divided by land. The property was owned by a total of 230,000 hectares, which is up to 1 percent. To date, the issue of the establishment of the border between Primorsk and Zaporizka District Council and the Primorska City Council on behalf of the city community has been addressed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the establishment of the border of the city of Primorsk of Zaporez. A project to change the boundaries of the city of Primorsk was developed by the state-owned enterprise "Berdian District Centre of the State Land Cadastre" of the State Committee on Land Resources, taking into account the actual status of land use, the prospects for the development of the city and the resort area by 2015. The last time the city’s borders were approved was back in 1966, accounting for 402,4 hectares [402,4 ha] of land. Since then, there have been significant changes in the development of urban agriculture, the construction of industrial enterprises, the construction of residential buildings, public buildings, and other buildings in the city. A total of 55.45 hectares [55.45 ha] of land from the Banov village council of the Primorski district and the land of the Primorski town council — 2040.7 acres [2040.7 ha] — are included within the city of Primorsk. In these lands there is a local cemetery, a resting - place, a collective city, a residential area, and a city’s infrastructure manufacturer. Thus, the area of Primorsk will be 2498.55 hectares [2498.55 ha] when the project changes. You have a plan for the outer edge of the city where the city’s buildings are marked. The question of the change in the boundaries of Primorsk, Primorski district, is in line with the legislation and is supported by a session of the Banov Rural Council of the Primorski region, the Primorski town, the Primorski district and Zaporezki district councils, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian politics and land relations. The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building and Local Self-Government at its meeting on April 15, 2009, reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the boundaries of the city of Primorsk of the Primorski region and recommended that the Supreme Council take a decision on the basis and in general. We ask the National Deputies to support the appeal of the Primorské community.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no objection? I'm betting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the border between Primorsk and Primorski district of Zaporozhye. [[Registration number 4444]] Please vote. [[16:12:05]] For 344 It's been decided. Project Decree 4445 on the establishment of the border between the city of Zvenigrad and the region of Cherkas region. All documents are prepared in accordance with the established order. Does anyone have a denial? I would like to vote on the adoption of the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the boundaries of the city of Zvenigrad in the region of Cherkas region. [[Registration number 4445]] Please vote. [[16:12:47]] For 351 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we still have a great deal to consider today with regard to the issues set out in the schedule for the fourth time, so there is a proposal for draft laws to be considered in the first reading to be a simplified procedure. Please support such an offer. We need to consider all the issues set out in the schedule for today. [[16:13:28]] For 193 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Health Reform and Health Insurance in Ukraine is announced for consideration. Is the head of the committee of the Bachevo Tetjana Dmitrovna? Dear colleagues, last week we held parliamentary hearings, discussed the project. Is there any objection if I put this document to the vote? Now I'm going to lay the groundwork. I'm voting on the basis of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Health Reform and Health Insurance of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4597]] Please vote. [[16:14:35]] For 332 Considered the basis. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, the draft of Decree 4597 was introduced by two Ukrainian national deputies without discussion on the committee's profile. This is the first time. Secondly, there is so much notice not only of me personally, but of anyone who knows the law on the status of the Ukrainian National MP and the requirements of the Constitution that this bill is necessary. Well, we took it as a foundation and we gave it to the committee, because there are extremely serious things here. Well, for example, I've never heard such a thing as that before, that draft decrees were written out in favor of a bill. A bill on health financing and compulsory socio-medical insurance to vote only for him and he's been revoked. This is Bill 4279 22.05. He's been called off, he's not in nature at all. Therefore, this law., this decree can only be voted on as a basis in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have passed a bill, a draft decree on the basis. Since there is a point to be made and, judging by his comments, he needs to be further worked out, he needs to prepare for the second reading. So commissioning the committee: prepare the draft decree for second reading. Is there no objection? Now we start to consider, we start to consider laws that the President of Ukraine has made observations and proposals. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection from Ionic Radiation, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 30.04., that is, 30 April 2009. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Ukrainian Secretary-General, representing the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Popov Igor Volodymyrovic. The focal point is the head of the Committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Skoobenko Volodymyr Petrovich. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u10	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 14 April 2009, was not signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of this law. The law proposes to supplement the law with article 8 above, which refers to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of human protection against ionizing radiation, the definition of the fundamentals of public policy in the field of human protection against ionizing radiation, the definition of legal principles for regulating human relationships against ionizing radiation. Approval of the main dose limit for the individual population and personnel of the objects that carry out practical activities, the approval of the boundaries and legal regime of radioactive contaminated areas, the approval of the amount of compensation for exceeding the annual primary dose limit for individual radiation, the approval of the Position and the personal composition of the National Commission for Radiation Protection of the People of Ukraine. In this regard, it should be noted that the proposed changes do not correspond to part two and article eight of the basic law of the State under which the Constitution of Ukraine has the highest legal power. The laws and other legal acts are adopted on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine and must be in conformity with it. Under the Basic Law, the powers of the Supreme Council are determined solely by the Constitution of Ukraine, part two of article 85, which is why the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has repeatedly stressed, inter alia, in its decisions of 7 April 2004 number 9 pp-2004 – the Coordination Committee case, as of 11 December 2007, issue 12 pp-2007 – the case of termination of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This excludes the possibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by adopting laws to determine its own powers, since, as stated by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in its conclusion of October 30, 2003, number 1 c-2003, this would not be consistent with the principle of power-sharing enshrined in article 6, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Human Beings against Ionising Radiation, to reject. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u11	Thank you. From the committee, please, Vladimir Petrovich. The committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! On 14 April this year, we passed the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Protection of Human Beings from Ionizing Radiation. The law was voted in favour of a second reading of 353 deputies. In January of this year, we adopted the Act by 370 votes. The purpose of the law is to define the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to protect the population from ionizing radiation. The President of Ukraine returned the bill with a proposal to reject it. Arrogating that it does not comply with article 8, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to which the Constitution has the highest legal force and the laws under which the Constitution has the highest legal force and the laws that are enacted must be in conformity with it. Although that is not the case, there is no explanation. The arguments that have now been made by the representative of the President of Ukraine are completely unconvincing. According to articles 92, paragraphs five and six of the Constitution, the basis for the use of natural resources, health and environmental security is laid down exclusively by Ukrainian laws. What's wrong with that? The Constitution does not have such concepts as radiation, nuclear and radiation security. Following the President's logic, article 17, which defines the competence of the Supreme Council in the field of nuclear energy and radiation security, is also inconsistent with article 8 and 92 of the Constitution. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Parliament's powers are defined by a number of special laws, such as land and water codes, the Overheads Code and the Natural Environment Act. Given our arguments, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, Disaster Management has taken a unanimous decision to reject the President's proposal that we reject the adoption of a law amending the Law on Protection of Human Beings from Ionizing Radiation. We propose to support the decision of the Committee and to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine. In addition, I would like to tell you that this law is based on the most important factor, so far no definition mechanism has been defined: (a) an intervention mechanism in case of radiation risk, a dosage mechanism and the most important definition of zoning of the whole Chernobyl area. To date, issues have arisen as to the transition from zone four to zone three. From third to second, the issues are very important. I spoke on this rostrum, and we all voted together to ensure that the law received the most support and entered as quickly as possible. Because the land around the Chernobyl area is behind two and a half thousand settlements, behind which is the entire staff of our nuclear power plants, behind which are millions of people. I therefore ask here to end all political disputes and to vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u13	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with the requirements of the regulation, have been asked to vote on the proposal of the President of Ukraine, namely on the rejection of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection of People from Ionising Radiation. [[Registration number 1347]] People's deputies please identify themselves. [[16:23:14]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. The proposal for a committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Ionising Radiation is now being put to the vote. [[Registration number 1347]] Please vote. [[16:23:50]] For 337 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Employment of Members of Personal Farmers, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 24 April 2009, has been announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4043]] Reporter – Popov Igor Volodymyrovich, the committee will be chaired by the committee of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Schmelov Svetlana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u14	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, the distinguished Ukrainian National Deputies, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 April 2009 by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Employment of Members of Personal Farmers, was not signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. First, the amendments to article 1 of the Ukrainian Employment Act are set out in particular whether members of private rural farms belong to the occupied population in the cases provided for in the Ukrainian Act on Personal Agriculture. A new edition of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Personal Farming of Individual Farmers is part of the occupied population category, provided that work in this farm is essential to them. And the calculated monthly income per member is equal to or greater than the minimum wage. Thus, the membership of individual farmers in the busy population category is linked to the size of their income. Such an approach does not correspond to article 24 of the Constitution, by which citizens have equal constitutional rights and freedoms and are equal before the law. There can be no privileges or restrictions, especially on property. It should be noted that for other categories of citizens, belonging to the busy population does not relate to the size of their income. Yes, according to article 1 of the Ukrainian Employment Act, employment is a citizen's activity related to the satisfaction of personal and social needs and it usually generates income in money or in other forms. The unemployed are determined by working - age citizens who, due to their lack of employment, have no income or other statutory income. And registered in the State Employment Service as those looking for work are ready and able to get to the right job – article 2 of the same law. The other one. Experts estimate that the legal provisions will require additional expenditure from the State Social Insurance Fund in the event of unemployment in the amount of about 430 million dollars to provide material benefits to some 200,000 uninsured persons. This, in the absence of legally defined sources of funding for such expenses, will result in a budget balance of the fund, a debt arising from the fund’s payments. Given the socio-economic situation in the country, the President of Ukraine cannot disagree. In view of the above, the head of State proposes to reject the Ukrainian Law “On Making Changes to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Employment of Members of Personal Farmers. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u15	Thank you. Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelov, please make a decision by the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u16	Schmellow. The faction of the Ukrainian company. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear country laborers! Allow me to express a personal opinion about the veto on the individual farming law before informing our committee’s decision. I am convinced that neither those who have prepared a document for the President's signature nor the President himself, unfortunately, have understood the importance of this law to the rural population, are simply obliged to correct the mistake and protect the rights of peasants. Now for the committee's decision. On April 6, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted 341 votes in second reading and in general the Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the employment of members of private agriculture. On 10 April, the passed law was signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and sent to the President of Ukraine for signature. Unfortunately, on April 24, the president of Ukraine, V.Jushchenko, returned the law with a proposal for his rejection. I'm asking you to listen, please. Let me remind you of the point. The Ukrainian Act of 13 January 2009 amending certain Ukrainian laws to reduce the impact of the world crisis on employment, number 7996 violated the constitutional right of citizens, members of private rural households to social protection in the event of unemployment. The Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the employment of members of private agriculture is aimed at restoring the situation that occurred after the entry into force of the 13th law and returning to the status quo, i.e. to the edition that took effect until 13 January of this year. According to current legislation, the employment of citizens is not directly linked to the specific size of the income they receive, because employment is a citizen's activity related to the satisfaction of personal and social needs and is generally income-generating in money or in other forms. Article 1 of the Employment Act. At the same time, today this general approach is appropriate to correct in view of the fact that the mechanism for the calculation of members of the individual agricultural holding in the existing format is imperfect. Yes, according to the rural, village, and city council regulations of April 18, 2005, approved by the decree of the State Committee, number 95, rural, rural, and urban councils in filling out the farm book apply to all members of the family and relatives, to persons living together who are assigned a land plot to run a private farm, whether they are members of the farm or not. In doing so, applications for withdrawal are not provided for by law. As a result, nominal members of the individual farm, the entire family, are virtually deprived of their social protection rights when they are released because they are not able to carry out activities that typically generate money or other forms of income, that is, they cannot be declared unemployed. It should also be borne in mind that the fact that there is another factor that testifies to the calculation of monthly income to place a member of a private farm in the category of employed citizens is that in many regions of Ukraine, the size of the land per member of a private farm does not provide a real opportunity, nor does it provide for the actual employment of members of a private farm, nor does it provide income from farming that would be sufficient to ensure normal activity. In addition, with the adoption of this anticonstitutional law, 7796 youths who graduated from school and other educational institutions have generally lost their constitutional guarantee of social protection in the event of unemployment. Yesterday, on June 3, 2009, at its meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, based on part two of article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Ukrainian Act “To Amend Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Employment of Members of Personal Farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u18	4043 returned by the President of Ukraine to re-adopt the entire veto. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council is of the view that it is possible to agree with the renewal of the monthly income calculation mechanism for one member of the private agricultural sector by the Cabinet of Ministers. That is to say, article 8, which was in force before the adoption of January 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On Making Changes to Certain Laws on Reducing the Impact of the World Crisis”. I ask you, regardless of political views, to support the committee's decision to defeat the President's veto and to take advantage of the peasants who have been driven to no avail without it. I don't think that's news to you. I very much ask you, as men, as the Supreme Council, as MPs of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u19	Honorary colleagues, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Employment of Members of Personal Farmers. I am voting on the proposal by the President of Ukraine to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the Employment of Members of Personal Farmers. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:34:06]] For two. President of Ukraine's proposal is not supported. The committee proposes to beat the veto of the President of Ukraine to this law. In this way, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the law of Ukraine “To amend certain laws of Ukraine concerning the employment of members of private agriculture”. [[Registration number 4043]] Please vote. [[16:34:51]] For 245 The President's veto is not over. Factions: [[the law is rejected]] Region Party – 164, “Block of Timoshenko” – 0, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 34, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. The law is rejected. Please, Ivan Kirilenko. Then Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! When we considered the proposal for this law -- to vote on the veto, not to vote, the President's proposals -- we mentioned to you at the time that eight bills were registered on this issue. And by voting on the first bill, we had the required number of votes. Other bills, including bill number four of Lithuania's Vladimir Mikhailovich, who was the most perfect in this respect and most suited the requirements of today, unfortunately they were all rejected as those which naturally obtained the first draft vote. So today this bill, without the veto, is considered to be rejected, but a government bill has already been registered, which can be considered immediately tomorrow, and even today, it can be voted on. It fully responds to the needs of today's citizen category, the peasants themselves, it's fully in line. So you can put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u21	National MP Gordienko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u22	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to draw the attention of all the villagers to the fact that, at this moment, Frakija “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” has done. The first thing that was done. When these criminal reforms in the country today were supported in the first stage, they deprived people of their jobs. Today, you have seen who has even deprived you of your rights, respected peasants, to be registered in the center of employment. I want to say that this bill refers to the five million inhabitants of the village that are today. And you need to understand today who cares about the people who are introducing the bills today and how they support this double morality today. From this day forward, remember and draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u23	Roman Tjak, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction. Then Oleg Easy and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u24	Roman Tkac, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm very sorry, of course, that the President vetoed this law, and there really is such a tragic situation today. But I would ask you, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, I have deep respect for you, I would still ask you to speak to the faction and to return to this. Indeed, today several laws have been registered in the Supreme Council to regulate the situation. There are MPs, where I speak, and MPs from the “Block of Lithuania”, BUTU, are also government. But today we need to vote, beat the President's veto and just get back. status quo until December 2008. So I'm asking you very much to come back now and have the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko block vote in favour of overcoming the veto, and then we can really, as you say, Ivan Grigorovich, settle this issue through legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u25	Oleg Lazko, then Sulkovsky and we finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u26	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Let's stop demagogy and prove in this room who loves more or less peasants. I think everyone in this room is from the village and they're supporting the peasants. But the law that our colleague is aspiring to and that we just didn't beat the veto, it's actually against the village, because it provokes slow Tunisianism in the village when a man is there for two days, and then he gets on the market and does nothing. That's why let's go from words to action. There's a government bill registered. You didn't want to support the Lithuanian bill, which is similar because it was government, so let's vote tomorrow. Let's put in order the daily government bill that settles these issues, and people on the one hand get paid. Come on. All of us go to the village, you can't find work hands, nobody wants to work. That's what I'm saying. You've been in the village a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u27	Paul Sulkowski. All this, the discussion is over, the honourable colleagues, well, it's not a discussion of why. The factions were one man at a time. Everything
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u28	That is, not to speak, but to overcome the veto must be done immediately. And so, I think again and again, I encourage the BUT faction, to think about it, and Ivan Grigorovich, please. Ivan Grigorovich, the villagers respect you as a human being and you, please call your faction now and overcome this project so that it doesn't hang out in the air and blubber in Parliament. And what they said he was rejected was not rejected. They just didn't support him, they didn't pass, they didn't break the veto. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please return to the veto vote to overcome, and this is only for the benefit of the peasants. And you don't have to think about politics here. Indeed, today, the speaker of the committee told the truth that they had only done harm to the villagers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u29	The name was Kirilenka. The replica. One minute. His first name was Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, there's a lot of populism in the hall, a lot of it. Now let's look at the real thing. How many millions of people working in the village and in the village are working seasonally. Seasonality. If we've been in the Lithuania Bill by Vladimir Mikhailovich written for 26 weeks, a man has worked hard enough for a peasant to be registered in the center of employment and receive a benefit for the rest of the year. And your law, which we now want to overcome, is zero days a year. Zero. I mean, we really make all the villagers Tunisians, you can't work and you can get them. You can't let that happen in any way, colleagues, where are we going to get the money?Oh, my God! That's why we support those who work, but seasonality is seasonality. 26 weeks is enough to get the second half of the year in the center of employment. That man really doesn't have a job. This is the essence of the Lithuanian Vladimir Mikhailovich bill, which is the same government. Tomorrow we both vote peasants and work, and they get the benefit. It's a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u31	Dear, dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts on this subject, and we exchanged thoughts on this subject. I have to say that the law has been rejected because it is the President's veto and when the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not supported the veto, it automatically means that the law has been rejected. We can't go back, otherwise you understand perfectly that the President won't sign it for the reasons of those who have violated the procedure, that's the first. The other one. Let's do it this way, tomorrow we'll put the law in place, we'll consider and we'll make a decision, we'll normalize this problem. And one more moment. I understand everything, then we'll watch it, vote it in two readings. And one more moment, let's all figure out one thing in the village, there was a term, there were no Tunisians. And everyone from the village here knows there's no such thing. Let's forget it. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. We just had, we're not going to be looking at the next one. That's why I, my dear colleagues, come to you and say it. That we should now consider the law of Ukraine on State support and promotion of the production and consumption of mineral fertilizers in Ukraine with the proposals of the President of Ukraine on 9 April 2009. At the same time, the committee asks that this law be left out for the law today, since there is no common position of factions and it is clear that this consideration will not be successful. So the request is for the committee, the factions to reconcile their positions on this law and bring it to the table. It's absolutely necessary. The chemical industry requires us to consider and make a final decision. We're not looking, there's no procedure. Matvienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u32	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I just want to address you, as chairman, as head of the Supreme Council and as chairman of our presidency, as conciliatory, as loyal, as the council. Tell me, please, maybe I don't know the Regulations, if you do, help me. And if not, why don't you explain that we've come up with standards, like "return to re-examination", "return to re-examination after re-examination"? If the law is not passed, it is withdrawn, and we cannot go back a hundred times, it is rejected. What are some of these motives that give us new insight into where it comes from? And second, the question is, change the state registration. There's nowhere to find this bill, it's impossible to find it, it's not in the database. I don't know, again, what kind of rape is that when a deputy doesn't actually get to know the text of the law that we're voting on. I'm asking you to put it in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in response to Anatoly Sergeiovich Matviyenka’s remarks, I say that it is order and order. The Supreme Council of Ukraine voted to review the previous law that had just been discussed, and according to the decision of the Supreme Council, we were to consider it today. Similarly, the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted to redraft Law 0866. It was given out, and we discussed it in the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! He was handed out, and during his discussion and vote in the first reading he found no support. Then there was an offer from the committee to send him over for processing as suggested by this Scientific and Experimental Authority. We sent him to work. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you now to check why he's not in the database -- that's all. [[B in m in s a l in]] But once again, I want to say that this document was handed out in the process when we were looking at it. Now I'm asking you to check why he's not in the database. Well, it's a committee. One minute! The committee addressed a letter asking for a postponement of the matter. Because it's moving, I think all the claims are off. But I'm asking the secretariat and the apparatus to check why it's not in the database. If that's really true. Guys, what's the point? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u34	Papuy Andrey, “For Ukraine” MP. I, Vladimir Mikhailovich, remind you that we were considering Law 0909 on May 21. I have been in the hands of a stenographer since that day and since that vote, reading your plain words: “The decision is not taken. The law has been rejected.” So Law 0909 has been rejected and you've heard it from the Supreme Council's rostrum and it's back in order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u35	Dear colleagues! We're discussing Bill 0866 with you right now. It is announced in the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Topographical Geodetics and Cartographic Activities. [[Registration number 3621]] Reporter: Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection Gursky Dmitry Sergiyovich, co-rapporteur, First Deputy Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Shershun Mikola Haritonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You are being reviewed by a government bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Topographic and Cartographic Activities. Amendments to the Act are determined by the need for further legislative regulation of relationships in the field of topographical and geodetic activities, improvements in the provision of state needs for geodetic and cartographic products. The bill contains changes and some additions that are intended to ensure that government is improved in this area. The development of the state mapping system, the introduction of modern methods and new technologies in the production of geodetic and cartographic products that are oriented towards the application of modern geospatial data and information systems, satellite methods for the identification of coordinates, etc., in the interests of government administration and general management. In particular, the bill regulates the authorization to distribute and use in Ukraine the world and European geodetic systems of altitude and play. metric measurements in new areas of this activity, such as the construction of resigodezic satellite observations to determine the coordinates of topographic satellites to create national geospace data infrastructures, which will increase the efficiency of topographical geodesic and cartographic activities. Some powers of a special authorized body, the central executive body, have been extended.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u37	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u38	On behalf of a large group of topogeodesical and, of course, related sectors of the economy of Ukraine, I ask your support, the honourable national MPs, the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u39	Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u40	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. Mr. Volodymira Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, I would like to point out immediately that the bill is extremely important and aimed at improving legislation in the field of topogeological and cartographic activities for the development of state geodetic networks and the state mapping system, providing state and other needs for geodetic and cartographic production. The application, which is very important, of the current geodetic systems of surveying geospatial data and information systems of satellite methods of determining coordinates. I would like to point out that today we have a system of altitudes called the Baltic, and in time we need to move on to others, particularly those in Europe, otherwise there may be inconsistencies in the construction of linear cross-border objects, communication problems, cartography, and other problems. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, expressing a number of editorial comments to the draft decree on the adoption of the draft bill in the first reading, proposes to adopt the draft as a basis. The bill is also supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council has proposed to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster supports the need to address the issues proposed in the bill and notes that the bill will contribute to the improvement of Ukrainian legislation. [[3621]] I propose to adopt the draft law as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u41	Dear colleagues! The committee proposes to adopt this bill as a basis. Any warning? None. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Cartographic and potatoographic activities. Please vote. [[16:53:34]] For 343 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property is being announced for consideration. [[concerning the clarification of individual positions]] [[Registration number 3408]] The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Economy, Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich. Alexy Plotnikov will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u42	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! You are considering a draft Act amending the Law on the Transfer of Real Estate and Public Property Objects, which aims to improve the system of administration of public utility property and to ensure State control over property transferred to municipal property. In order to achieve this goal, the bill introduces such standards. First. The introduction of a mandatory procedure for State registration of property rights and other transfer rights if rights to them are subject to registration under the State Registration Act. The other one. There is an expanded circle of objects that can be transferred from state to municipal property provided local self-government authorities are obliged to use them for purpose and not to alienate them to private property, such as: thermal power plants; engineering networks of thermal power plants; industrial heating boilers with thermal networks; other heating facilities; engineering infrastructures of water and gas management related to water supply, gas and sewage treatment; and fixed assets for social infrastructure facilities, including in military towns and in a number of other areas. Third. In the event of a breach of the local authorities ’ obligation not to alienate or use the property transferred to private property for a purpose. , which resulted in the alienation of such property into private property being considered worthless, and property is offered to return to the State. The introduction of this rule in combination with the requirement of mandatory government registration of ownership rights in respect of transfer facilities provides a prerequisite for the efficient use of transferred property. Also.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u44	It's just a phrase. Several standards have also been clarified. I would like to say that this law is now eagerly awaited because we are approached by many local authorities for the purpose of handing over these objects, which are essentially communal. Therefore, a request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u45	National MP Alexy Plotnikov, head of the subcommittee, right? It's about economic policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u46	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 10 December 2008 considered the Cabinet of Ministers' Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Law, the corresponding number is 3408. The bill is intended to clarify the list of public property items that may be transferred free of charge from state to municipal property. To improve the requirements for financial and economic justification for the transfer of property from public utilities and finally to introduce the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Real Estate Objects to the requirements of the Ukrainian Land Code and the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights for Real Estate and Restrictions. In view of the positive nature of this bill, of course. It increases the responsibility of local government authorities, strengthens state control, strengthens the material and technical base of local self-government, and also takes into account that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion on this bill, notes that, as a result of the first reading, it can be adopted on the basis of the Committee on Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposes to support this bill and adopt it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u47	Thank you. Vladimir Bondarenko, Budget Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u48	Vladimir Bondarenko “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I carry out the commission of a budget committee to deal with the issue of this bill and to reach such a conclusion. The fact that it is certainly beneficial enables us to identify lists of public property items that may be transferred from state to municipal property free of charge, as well as the list of documents required for the transfer of property. It will help to increase the responsibility of local self-government authorities for targeted use and efficient management of property donated free of charge to the territorial community. But we have to take into account the opinion of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, which also supports this project, but thinks it will have, its approval will have a direct impact on the formation of Ukraine's State Budget. The budget committee therefore adopted a decision that should be taken into account by the authors of the project and by the committees that would submit it for second reading. We believe that under the formal promulgation of this law by 15 August 2009, under the 27th article of the Budget Code, it will take effect no later than 1 January 2010. Otherwise, if it is published later, its standards may enter into force no later than January 1, 2011. This must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u49	All those recorded for the discussion took the floor. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. [[Registration number 3408]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:00:27]] For 175 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Law on Complementation is being announced for consideration. Excuse me. Is there a proposal for the Ukrainian National Deputies to refer this bill to read again? Out of procedure, please, People's Deputy Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u50	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Alexander Volodymyrovich, well, that's exactly how you end up in the Supreme Council, obviously you as chairman have no right to allow it. We're following a reduced procedure, at least ask if there's a desire to discuss it. We don't even talk about it. We don't talk about it. Then we voted and there is no way even to ask you to ask the question then for a second reading. Because I personally believe that this law is urgently needed. We have a complete vacchanal of municipal and state property today. Until we distribute this property until we offer adequate mechanisms, I don't understand my colleagues, why we don't vote in favour of this law in the first reading. I ask you to go back to re-voting again, and if you don't support me, send it back to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u51	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I would like to point out that what you call a downfall is endorsed by the voices of the Ukrainian national deputies at the suggestion of your colleagues who are not far from you, what is related to the reduced procedure. As far as the discussion is concerned, all those who sign up for the discussion are sure to speak. Then, in essence, your proposal will necessarily apply to the vote. Dear colleagues, there has been an invitation to return to the decision regarding the first reading of the bill. I'm putting the vote back on the motion for a decision on draft Law 3408. [[17:02:53]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Another suggestion that came is to send this bill back for re-reading. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:03:20]] For 216 The decision is not taken. Bill 3408 was rejected. A draft law supplementing article 26 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act is being announced for consideration. Reported Deputy Minister of Economy Pantelejenko Viktor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u52	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Complementing Article 26 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. The essence of the draft law is to give the Cabinet of Ministers the authority to establish general conditions, requirements for order, conditions and rules for the use by the operators of the goods whose implementation has been suspended, and the Ministry of Agriculture for the development and approval on the basis of these requirements, in particular the order, conditions and rules for dealing with such products. The need for such authorizations is due to the fact that the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Protection Act empowers consumer protection authorities to stop the implementation of goods that do not meet the requirements of standards or technical conditions before the management of detected deficiencies is eliminated. According to the results of the checks carried out by the State Consumer on a fragmented trading network, in recent years between 25 and 50 percent of the goods have been missing due to inadequate regulatory documents, and their implementation is banned. At the same time, because of the absence of a mechanism for implementing such decisions, even banned goods may reenter the trading network. As a result, consumers are not protected from the acquisition of defective or even dangerous goods. The adoption of the bill will allow, at the legislative level, to resolve issues concerning the conduct of goods that have been suspended as a result of quality and safety checks, and to create an effective mechanism to counter the arrival of goods that have been removed from the implementation of insecure and dangerous goods. The implementation of the law does not require additional financial costs from the State Budget. The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Economic Policy Committee, and it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft be adopted as a basis. Please support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u53	Thank you. Alternative project 3579-1 is represented by National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u54	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! In preparing this bill, I did not know that a government bill would be introduced. Now I see that there's been a conflict and competition between these bills, and that's not good. In view of this, I have decided to withdraw my bill and add to it. in the part where there is no legal regulation of the positions that I propose, the government bill, so that there is no conflict and there is no succulent acceptance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u55	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. The committee's report is the head of the economic policy subcommittee, Gayman Oleg Eisikovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u56	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! On 13 January 2009, the Committee on Economic Policy received a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supplementing article 26 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. [[Registry 3579]] The Committee considered it at its meeting on February 4, 2009, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. In view of the fact that National Deputy Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich withdrew his bill from the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Ukraine to adopt, on the basis of a draft law supplementing article 26 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u57	Thank you. Let's sign up for a discussion. Stone Valery Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u58	Thank you. Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Considering that this bill has been introduced by the Ukrainian government, which is now an expression of the interests of Ukraine’s electorate, who is gradually moving through Ukraine’s withdrawal from the crisis. I ask you to support this bill and I call for all deputies to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u59	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u60	Thank you. Landik, Party of Regions. Well, the law as necessary is a change in article 26, but we do have a law on removal from circulation, processing, disposal, destruction, or further use of inadequacies and dangerous products. That is, when we talk about how to use this inefficient product, we say that it is necessary for an authorized person to be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. So why do we do that if we have the whole law to do it? And it is quite possible to write that we are acting in accordance with this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u61	The discussion is over. It is the adoption vote in the first reading of the draft law supplementing article 26 of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. [[Registration number 3579]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:10:25]] For 205 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. It's being announced. There is a proposal to correct this draft law for re-reading the first reading. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please be sure. [[17:10:59]] For 237 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at re-reading the first reading. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technological Parks is being published for consideration. Registration number 3643. Paul Bronislavovich, deputy minister of education and science, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u62	Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Activities of Technology Parks. It's focused on developing innovative infrastructure and, above all, technology parks, which are now or are not the only effective link between advanced science and production, and it will ensure the implementation of scientific developments. I would like to stress that Ukrainian technology parks have produced 12.3 billion dollars over the last years of innovation and have paid 420 million dollars more than they have received government support. Unfortunately, current legislation does not contain mechanisms to encourage technological parks to create innovative infrastructure that is essential for innovation. And in the State Budget, there is no funding for implementation in the current year of the State targeted economic programme, the creation of innovative infrastructure in Ukraine 2009-2013. It is clear that in the context of a financial crisis, budgeting for the targets is problematic. In view of these circumstances, the government is introducing a bill that is before you. It is intended to amend article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Innovation Regime for Technology Parks, which will allow technology parks to channel partial costs and special accounts, and to create innovative structures that will provide services to participants in technology parks and other subjects of innovation from the development and implementation of innovation. In doing so, it should be noted that the technology infrastructure will work both for technology parks and for any innovators who intend to implement their innovations. In this use of funds for the stated purposes, to be under strict control by the supervisory authorities, according to a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 21 March 2007 to approve the monitoring and monitoring of technology park projects. [[Number 517]] Acceptance of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u64	It will contribute to the development of innovative activities in Ukraine and to the corresponding growth of the competitiveness of enterprises and economies in general. Please support the bill introduced by the government in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u65	A report from the Committee, Alexei Vitaliovich Plonikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u66	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on 4 February 2009 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on Special Innovation in Technological Parks, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers for the implementation of parliamentary hearings. This law is designed to create and develop innovative technology park infrastructures, including the amendment of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on a special regime for the innovation of technology parks that will allow technology parks to channel partially the cost of special accounts and the creation of innovative structures that will provide services to participants in technology parks and other subjects of innovation for the development and implementation of innovation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on 3 February 2009 that the first reading of the bill could be based on comments made. Taking all of this into account, the Economic Policy Committee adopted a decision to amend article 8 of the Ukrainian Law “On a special regime for the innovation of technology parks to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u67	Thank you, Alexy Vitaliovich, for your discussion. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to expect that this bill and other bills that we have already supported, the government bills that have already been supported with you in this room and aimed at supporting the domestic producer, to introduce elements of the investment and innovation model for the development of the Ukrainian people's economy, the government is finally demonstrating the need for systematic, complex, deep reforms of the real economy sector. In listening to this bill, I remembered 2005 as sad when, because of the lack of understanding of the significance of technology parks, free economic zones, all of these innovations broke through the shoulders, the preferences for a domestic manufacturer who was going to focus on technological and technological refurbishment, we hope that this bill continues the line, I emphasize the introduction of an investment and innovation model that, as colleagues, you recall, the once-dead Ukrainian national deputy Mikhail Pavlowski from this rostrum told of Mikhail Ivanovich's Ukrainian economist, the first Ukrainian National Republic Finance Minister of the Russian People's Republic about the Swedish model of socialism, who, unfortunately, did not live in us in the Soviet Ukraine and with great difficulty in his own way. Therefore, I think that this bill must be supported, taking into account the difficulty of budgetary financing the systems of science, education, health care, and health, we will thus allow our parks to develop successfully in favour of the real economy and the basic sectors of the national economy. I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u69	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I think we will do the right thing if we really support this government bill. The Supreme Council has done much to make these scientific, technological, and technical parks work. The Polish Institute of Technology, a faction of Communists, has been active in the development of these bills, and professional committees have been actively involved. And indeed, whoever is familiar with the work of certain of these scientific parks, especially the park that was created on the basis of the Kiev Political Institute, knows that from the creation of such parks, our science will actually win, our new technologies will win. The bill, as you can see, consists of literally one sentence on allowing for grants that are allocated to ensure the activities of these parks to add that they have, at the expense of these targeted subsidies, to create and ensure the operation of innovative infrastructure, i.e. innovative business incubators, centres, technology transfer, etc. Some may wonder, ‘ If it is given, as it were, another direction on government subsidies, would it not affect the state budget’s expenditure? I don't think so, and here's the Ministry of Education and Science law. It comes from the fact that from that total amount of subsidies that are going to be allocated to the activities of a particular scientific centre, some part of it, it's going to be how the center is going to be managed, but it's going to have absolutely legitimate grounds for having some of these subsidies, other than the tens of them listed here, sent even more to the creation of innovation structures. I think we'll do the right thing if we adopt this law not only in the first reading but in general because it's not a burden on the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u71	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u72	Mikola Shershun, “Block Lithuania”. I have a strong belief that the Ukrainian economy needs to implement as many innovative technologies as possible, because today, when scientific and technological progress dictates the conditions for the development of society, the application of innovation in production, it plays a crucial role in the country's economic and scientific development. Without a doubt, our nation should contribute to the development and implementation of innovative activities in order to reduce technological underdevelopment from developed countries. That is why it is very important to promote the development of technology parks in Ukraine, particularly at the legislative level, to encourage technological parks to create innovative infrastructures as provided by the bill. In addition, the implementation of the bill will increase the activity of innovation actors in Ukraine. So I think that this bill should be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u73	Thank you, Mikola Haritonovich. A faction that did not participate in the discussion for one minute. Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u74	Thank you, Your Honor. Kseniya Liapina group “For Ukraine”. I want to point out that any intelligent state at a time when the economic crisis is shrinking and production is shrinking, the GDP is shrinking. Of course, they're looking for ways out of the crisis, and the best way for Ukraine to get out of the crisis is to develop innovation. That's a pretty obvious conclusion. Realizing that there is no money in the state budget today, despite what the government is reporting today, we realize that we have to give something to innovative parks so that they can demonstrate the power of innovation. For every bracelet we give to these parks, they're multiplying in the economy 10 or more bracelets. I believe that by voting in favour of this law, we are doing an important and positive thing for Ukraine. I urge all colleagues to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u75	The discussion is over. I am voting on the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technology Parks. [[Registration number 3643]] [[voting in first reading]] [[17:23:18]] For 345. Decision taken. The National MP Martinyuk suggested that this law be passed in general. Do the National Deputies have objections and suggestions for second reading? There are such suggestions. Please, the profile committee is preparing the project for second reading. A draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 3513]] Report to Deputy Minister of Economy Pantelejenko Viktor Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. The essence of the draft law is to prohibit advertising of any goods that do not relate to medical devices, medical techniques, methods of prevention, diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation, and to reinforce the fact that these products have medicinal properties if such properties are not confirmed in the established legislation by order of a specially authorized central health authority. The need for such a ban is due to the recent widespread distribution throughout Ukraine of products that claim to have medicinal properties, regardless of the fact that they do not fit the reality. This type of advertising not only deceived consumers but also caused them to spend their money on unnecessary items. The adoption of the proposed law will increase consumer protection and create conditions for nonmedical advertising. The implementation of the law does not require financial and other costs from the State Budget. The bill was discussed at the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Health and the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council on a basis. Please adopt the proposed law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u77	Thank you. The report is headed by the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information by Hanna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, I ask you on behalf of the committee to support this very useful bill in times of crisis, because it simply prohibits charlatanism. I think it's a necessary bill now and the government has done very well when initiating it. The committee unanimously supported him, and we ask him to be approved as a basis. Thank you. In general, no, because there is a need for some editorial corrections, and there is a lack of compliance with the rules of legislation, and I pay attention to that, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, so the committee is actually proposing, for the first reading, to adopt the bill as a basis and to further develop it, taking into account the comments and suggestions made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u79	Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna. Let's sign up for a discussion. National deputy Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u80	Colleagues, a perfectly correct, necessary bill, in short, logic is very simple. If you want to post an ad in this advertisement and talk about a healing or healing effect, show a certificate or license for the product or for this service. And why did this bill come about, for a simple reason, because if you look at the advertising that we see in the media right now, it seems that health is not only being corrected by healers and fortune tellers, but health can be fixed by powders and parks. If this continues, the MP’s badge can soon be repaired. That is why it is the right initiative of the government to support, and the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u81	The Zarubinsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u82	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, I can only agree with my colleagues. And you know, consumers of this fraud are getting more and more people in Ukraine. And what's particularly unpleasant is that it's people, like the right old age, who are looking at these cheating promises, that some pyramids, some god knows what it can do to cure any disease, that it's a panacea and all that. This has to be stopped. But I would like to raise more questions about advertising even medicines, even medicines. There are instructions on how to consult a doctor before taking any medication. What does advertising, the aggressive, massive advertising of drugs do? I realize that there's a lot of money for this commercial, because the income for those who do this business is huge. There's something to advertise any drug and say it helps everything. It seems to me that maybe the State-of-the-art needs to think about what, whether legitimate advertising is completely unprofessional to those or other even medical drugs, even drugs, because it ultimately leads to self-medical treatment, it leads to a violation of medical instructions and it leads to a deterioration in health and not to improvement. The “Lithuania Block” will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u83	From the faction that did not take part in the discussion, National Deputy Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u84	Thank you. Why did I ask for words? I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies - from Karpuk - of the Committee on Health Care to have such a proposal written in the Recommendations, When you work on the recommendations for parliamentary hearings on the health system, we must make such a suggestion. The fact is, over the past four years, the population in money has increased the purchase of drugs by six times. In 2008 alone, extra drugs that they did not need were purchased at an amount of 1.5 billion dollars. I won't talk. There are medical professionals who are better than me who know what harm a person can do to himself. When you're diagnosed. When you listen to a diagnosis from a TV screen, they're all right, especially when you hear that after 40 years, all men have the same disease. A. I don't remember what it's called. Stomatitis, I think. In order not to allow this to happen, we certainly need to support such a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u85	From a faction that did not take part in the discussion, National Deputy Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u86	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Respectable national MPs are, of course, a good bill has been passed by the government. I just want to draw your attention to the lack of a comprehensive approach. Well, neither the government nor the committees can do any more to make changes to a part of something like this in this case in the 9th article of the 21st. Well, let's get up now, if we're going to ask questions about changes to advertising, to the Advertising Act, let's go all the way. Look at the aggressive advertising that goes on today, both in alcohol and on television. How many movies are being interrupted, and so on. Can we reduce the amount of advertising that the consumer is using, that is, every citizen of Ukraine? I'm here to look at this bill in a comprehensive way, and I'm here to look at it in a complex way. And please both the committee and the government let's make changes to the legislation in a complex way, a new regulation to do so and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u87	The discussion is over. I'm voting on the first reading of the draft law amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act, registration number 3513. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:32:27]] For three hundred Decision taken. Please offer Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the committee as well as the author of many amendments to the Advertising Act. What? What are our problems? The Science and Experimental Authority proposes to add one word, and that's correct. The words “non-medical goods, medical techniques, methods of prevention, diagnostics, treatment, rehabilitation” are prohibited from referring to these products as “and methods”. If we add the word "and methods," so there is no comment, we can take the second and the whole, and thus solve the serious problem. So I would like to take into account the comments of our scientific expert, add the words "and methods" and vote in the second and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u89	Please, the head of the committee, Anna Mikolayevna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u90	I think that's a good offer, and we can do a good thing together right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u91	There is no objection that the amendment to the second reading made by the people's deputies Tomenko and Hermann could now be considered in the session room? Is there a denial? There's no objection. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and in general, taking into account the amendment of the national deputies Tomenko and Herman, the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[Registration number 3513]] Please vote. [[17:34:22]] For 365 The law's been passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Resources Act is being announced for consideration. Registration number 3047. Reported to the head of the National Commission on Communications Management, Sergio Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The main objectives of the bill are to establish a procedure for the granting of permits in the field of radio frequency, set up by the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Resource Act, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities, by clearly defining the procedure and deadlines for the granting of permits for the operation, import and implementation of radio-electronic equipment and radiation devices in Ukraine. The adoption of the proposed changes will facilitate the use of the radio spectrum of the only transparent, unified requirements for the interaction of authorities and operators with regard to obtaining documents of a permissive nature and the identification of a list of procedures provided on a paid basis. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u93	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee's report is Yuri Borisovich Kruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u94	Dear Alexander Vladimirović, distinguished colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications, at its meeting on 5 February, reviewed the draft law amending the Law on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[No. 3047]] As has already been said, the purpose of the bill is to improve the efficiency of operators in the use of radio frequencies. This clearly defines the procedure and timing for the granting of permits for the use of electronic means. The bill is purely technological in nature; the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council supports the draft and considers it possible to take it as a basis. The decision of our sectional committee also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis for first reading. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u95	Thank you. Let's sign up for a discussion. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! Professor Cherniak was sitting in this room about this place, and the MPs with experience remember. He has this famous phrase: “I will vote in favour of this bill, but with disgust.” You see, we have two basic bills on radio frequency and on the free system in the area of economic activity that we have recently adopted, and in the Final Positions, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has to make changes to its normative documents. But don't be absurd. In fact, from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, such functions are passed on from the college body to the central authority that it has never dreamed of. I just don't understand why it's done and why we want to do it, what we want to do with it, what we want to do with it, if we want to do more orderly things, it's wrong. It's not gonna be okay. If you help get permission from all kinds of people, the system will get even worse because the list of documents you need today is developed by the Cabinet of Ministers it's clear and clear, here we're introducing a rule that this list of documents is going to be completely different. And those permits that someone had previously received all of this now will be overturned and in a new way, the man rightly says no money will be budgeted. On the contrary, entrepreneurs and those who provide services in the electronics market, for example, will be fed. So of course, if the faction has determined that this law must be supported, I will vote, but bear in mind that I will vote with disgust.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u97	The discussion is over. It is about the adoption vote in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3047]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:39:44]] For 276 Decision taken. By factions, please, the Party of the Regions is 99, the Block of July Timoshenko is 147, our Ukraine-National Self-Defense is 11, the Communists are 0, the Block of Lithuania is 19. It is announced before the review of the Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Factoring Legislative Acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2638]] Learns Victor Ivanovich Suslov, head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Financial Services Markets.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u98	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing to the Supreme Council a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on factoring in the first reading. The purpose of the legislation is to improve legislation on regulation of the activities of financial institutions by providing services from factoring. Factoring issues are regulated by the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on financial services and government regulation of financial services markets, “For banks and banking activities”, and the Unidroit Convention on International Factoring since 1988. The standards of the legislation mentioned do not fully agree with each other. This complicates the regulation and development of the factoring market. The project is intended, first, to amend the Ukrainian Law on Financial Services and Public Regulation of Financial Services Markets “in order to determine the financial service of factoring. Secondly, introduce rules that allow financial institutions to provide factoring services to other transactions directly related to the provision of factoring services. Thirdly, to establish the only approaches for determining factoring transactions of banking and non-banking financial institutions by amending the laws of Ukraine on financial services and government regulation of financial services markets, on “For banks and banking activities” and on the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine. Thus, the adoption of this law will allow for the elimination of contradictions in the laws on factoring, as well as the alignment of these acts with those of the Unidroit Convention on International Factoring. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u99	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. A report from the committee. Alexander Ivanovich Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u100	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I completely agree with the reporter, he really did a very good job of setting the standards for this bill. I would like to report that the Committee on Finance and Banking, at its meeting on February 16, 2009, reviewed the bill and decided to be supported in the first reading. I would also like to point out that there is agreement between the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to endorse it in the first reading. I want to stop at the basic principles of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration's observations. They conclude that a revision of the preamble will be necessary in the first part of the bill, which is the first. So that's just the definition of factoring, which means that it's going to be funding under the withdrawal of the right of demand, and it's going to add the license. I believe that this bill can be adopted, and it will be entirely aimed at resolving issues about the Civil Code. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u101	Let's sign up for a discussion, please. National MP Kenzior Jaroslav Mihajlovich, please. Passes the word to Arjewitin. National MP Arjevetin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u102	Dear colleagues. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, a deputy group “For Ukraine!” It should be welcomed that this bill will finally resolve some differences in various legislative acts. It is also important to welcome the fact that the factoring will finally be done in Ukraine not only by banking institutions but also by all other financial institutions, including nonbank institutions. But in this way, I think we only deal with problems of this external nature, surface. And we need to take some problems into account. And to second reading, we have to answer why the factoring market is not so developed in Ukraine today, or what are the reasons why it is not developing today. And I'm going to those members of the Supreme Council who have experience in business to make these proposals. I think that the second reading needs to be addressed in terms of the only approach, the only standards for factoring, both in banking and non-banking institutions. I think we should look carefully at the relevance of licensing this kind of activity, considering that now there will be both banking and not banking financial institutions. There are reasonable suggestions also from the scientific and expert management, so I would like to support it in the first reading, and for the second reading to make proposals on the development of factoring operations in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u103	Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u104	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Just now, a colleague of Arzvitin spoke correctly about the underdevelopment of the factoring market. I would like to continue with the market theme for which Mr. Suslov is headed by the commission, and I would like to draw attention to the absolute savagery of the insurance market. I receive repeated appeals from people, especially from transport owners, who complain that insurance companies are massively refusing to comply with the terms of the contracts. I, Sir Victor Ivanovich, seem to have addressed you twice on this subject, cited specific cases, and in each case I received a copy that did not, in fact, solve the problem. Rightly, people complain that on pages 10 they write a fine print, where no one reads anything, and then they tell us that they do not compensate for broken glass or scratched bumpers, doors, and so forth. And unfortunately, instead of meeting you personally, I spoke to you about this in person, to meet with you on your side of understanding and trying to at least start putting the system on the insurance market, we. Or take away those who do not comply with the terms of the contracts, don't pay people money, get their licenses, I get your receipts. I'm asking you and your commission to pay attention to this, and it's more careful to turn to the people's deputies, who are seeking the interests of many thousands of Ukrainian citizens, because this is a massive problem of not paying the insurance companies. It's a plague, it's a plague. And I hope you'll finally start bringing the system to this insurance market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u105	The discussion is over. It is up to the vote on the adoption of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on factoring in the first reading. [[Registration number 2638]] People's deputies please identify themselves. [[17:48:22]] For 330. Decision taken. The bill was approved. The draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications, registration number 3420, is being announced for consideration. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vitaly Terentijovich Korz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u106	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, a respected Ukrainian national deputy, your opinion is proposed by a bill whose main purpose is to increase the number of services, such as the ability to save telephone numbers when transferring subscribers from one liaison operator to another operator, the personalization of numbers, and the introduction of national roaming services. Similar services are implemented in almost all European countries and the EU Directive. In addition, the bill provides for amendments to individual articles of the Telecommunications Act, as well as for technical terms that are not in the current law. In particular, it is suggested that the following terms be changed and completed: subscriber number, subscriber number, personal number, national roaming. The bill provides for changes to the CNDR’s powers regarding the establishment of a service for the preservation of subscribers’ transfers, the provision of national roaming services, the opening of a numbering resource for the creation of personal subscriber numbers, which is a normal practice of regulating communication in Europe. Please take into account the fact that such a bill was considered in a second reading and adopted as a whole as a law in the previous convocation. However, in connection with the temporary suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, the President of Ukraine left the law without consideration. Since the standards proposed in the bill remain valid and are long - awaited for a large number of mobile subscribers in the country, the draft law has been reintroduced. I ask you, Your Honor, to support Bill 3420.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u107	Complete, please, Vitaly Terentiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u108	Thank you. And to receive him in the first reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u109	A report from the Committee of Jury Borisovich Krug, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u110	Dear Alexander Valentinović, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on 18 March, the Supreme Council's Committee on Training and Communications considered the bill amending the Law on Telecommunications on Increases in the List of Services, No. 3420 of 28 November 2008. Submitted by the People's Deputies Korzh and Moroko. The purpose of the bill, as has already been mentioned here, is to expand the list of services and the possibility of preservation, and this is the main thing, when transferring the subscribers from one issue to another. And the introduction of a national roaming service. The Scientific and Expert Office, in its conclusion on 10 February, believes that the law can be adopted as a basis. Our Sectoral Committee has considered this issue, the bill and also believes that it can be adopted as a basis, as well as with a small addition, where the main addition goes on time, this would have to be done in the Final Positions, given that a whole restructuring of mobile communications is needed. Therefore, it would be necessary to replace the term “six months from the date of publication of this law” in the Final Provisions of May 1, 2009. And the words “since 1 January 2012” replace the words “in three years to publish this law”. Because that is the minimum period for which technical rearms can be made. Therefore, I would like you to consider accepting it on first reading and in general, on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u111	Let's sign up for a discussion. Yavrovsky Vladimir Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u112	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, our constituencies, of course the world, including Ukraine, are experiencing a cell phone boom today, it's no longer a problem to see even a grandmother shepherding a cow and at this very moment talking on a mobile phone with her children who live there, perhaps even abroad. For a long time, we had absolute outsiders who did these functions, and you know how the pay for mobile phones, including mobile phones, has been growing, you know that very well without me. Because of our colleague Korz’s view of mobile operators, as it were, there are many in Ukraine. And I think that the Antimonopoly Committee there is now virtually nothing to do. What he looked at, and that at last some limited services that our colleague Korge decided to extend, I think it's very normal for this bill to be voted on. And "Julia Timoshenko's Block" will support him with all his hands that he has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u113	Arjev Vladimir Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u114	Dear colleagues! The current mobile order actually limited the rights of mobile subscribers who already have tens of millions in Ukraine. And if the long-term use of the mobile connection of one company, but all of a sudden she had a desire to move on to more favourable conditions than another company could, she couldn't do it by now because she needed to change the number that she knew, there, friends, colleagues, a work partner. In this case, we need to think first of all about people, about consumers, about those who use mobile phones to expand their rights. This will not limit the rights and income of mobile operators, but people will be able to choose, and this will only contribute to the development of competition in the mobile market. And I think we should think first of consumers, of mobile phone owners. And I believe that this bill must be adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u115	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, really if you don't study this law in detail, his idea bribes his attraction that anyone who leaves a mobile phone number, please leave it, but there is but. It's going to be a special firm that's going to do this. This company is headed by a man named one of the national deputies who is in this session hall and so on and so forth. So it's a line, a good pattern drawn to make everything beautiful, so that our ears here, as it were, would be, would come out of a good idea, and that those who will implement these ideas would have a wonderful income. If we're talking about telecommunications, about introducing a law to this, let's really put and do what's on the surface. Do you know what's going on with the wire? It doesn't seem to be necessary on the one hand, because all the Ephemian radio, the wire radio, they don't seem to need it, because all the FM radios do, but on the other hand, it's the state's largest resource. This is an opportunity and a need to promote public policy. And most of all, don't give God, as they say, what happened here. Every one of you who's ever been to Western areas knows. That the magnitude of the disaster last year wouldn't have happened if people had been told in time. How do you tell people? It's not like I'm gonna beat you! Because there's no radio left. And it would be a live radio, there would be an MCS report of danger, and so on, and so on, and so on, and then you could make some kind of decision. And one more thing. I'm sorry, our technology is the most important thing. Please report to the committee, not your own.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u117	Please, Adam Ivanovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u118	The committee, a respected colleague of Crook, did not make the decision to accept it as a whole. I have a committee decision, so I don't need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-04-m1.u119	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The committee's decision is with every national MP. Please pay attention to him. The discussion is over. I'm voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications to increase the number of services. [[Registration number 3420]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:59:41]] For 301 Decision taken. Since there was a proposal made by several national deputies, adoption as a whole, I ask the Ukrainian national deputies. There is a denial of the national MPs of Ukraine. So I'm asking the profile committee to prepare this bill for the second reading. I declare the evening plenary session closed. The next plenary meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m.
