ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Invite the deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Council" system. [[16:01:26]] Registered -418 Cards were registered in the 418 national deputies’ session hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of the issues set out in the March 3rd schedule. A draft Act amending the Notaryate Act of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the authorization of notarial action by officials of local self-government bodies]] And so this is where the draft Law amending article 245 of the Civil Code of Ukraine comes in. [[concerning the powers of officials of local self-government authorities to perform actions comparable to notary ones]] These are Bills 3586, 3587. I would ask that we consider them at the same time, but we will vote separately. No objections? The reporter is Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to introduce the amendments to the two bills that we have prepared with my colleague Sergey Mishchenk. And these ideas, which were presented in the bill of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, who united, as it were, his proposals and ideas in our bill. This right over here looks like this. On October 1, 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine made serious changes to the Notariat Act, and a large number of these changes are well appreciated by expert experts, but according to accepted changes authorized officials of local self-government authorities in the localities, namely rural, village heads, where there are no notaries who have been deprived of the right to do the most common notary actions that they had been allowed to do before. Since we understand that the village is far enough away from the district centers, from cities, a large number of older people, pensioners are a problem for them to get there, and more to pay for these services. Of course, it caused some disturbance in the village, and when we held a joint meeting under the vote of the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, all the heads of the district councils asked the Supreme Council to settle the matter. With a view to remedying the situation, we introduced the bill. What does this bill propose? To the norm of the Act “On Notariate” in force, which reads as follows: “In locations where there are no notaries, empowering authorized persons of local self-government to perform such notarial actions: to take steps to protect hereditary property, to certify covenants, to issue duplicate certificates”, add paragraph 4 “to demonstrate the loyalty of copies, photocopies of documents, statements from them”, paragraph 4 “to demonstrate the validity of the signature on documents”. Accordingly, the need for amendments to the Civil Code provides for the following article in the Civil Code: “The authorities of the local government can demonstrate the credibility of a person who is likened to notarized trusts.” The provisions of the bill are consistent with the Constitution, and I think we will do a good job if we allow a large number of our citizens to come quietly to the village council and settle the issue. When the bill was discussed in our profile committee, there was a discussion about the possibility of abuse by officials. In particular, examples of the abuse of rural heads or village heads in the Kyiv region and other areas where this has been used for the purpose of trying to take possession of property or otherwise. So I'm going to say twice that I and Sergei Mishchenko, as the authors of the bill, agree with the committee's approach, which thinks that the following sentence should be added to our editor, or the next paragraph: in addition to trust in the right to manage real estate and trust in the administration and administration of corporate rights. Such a special action requires a more professional approach, it requires the availability of a base, to fix it so that we do not, in this democratic norm, allow local self-government to be abused. So, fellow Members, I have this request, because the Head of the Supreme Council, at the meeting with the heads of the district councils, has promised that we will respond quickly and expeditiously, I would like to support you today in the first, second and overall, taking into account that we as authors agree with the committee's warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u3	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, please. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please head of the Legal Policy Committee. Please, Yuri Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the authors of these bills on behalf of our committee. Because the question that we are asking after the reform of the Notaryate has just become the subject of their attention. And it's not just those two bills that are currently under consideration, it's another bill under number 4062 that Vladimir Litwin passed just after he met with representatives of the local self-government authorities who called the legislators' attention to the fact that we need to improve the Notariat Act to allow officials of local self-government. Dear colleagues, this is a very important question. I'll invite you, vote in general, so I ask you to listen. Where there are no notaries, it is possible for officials to bear witness to documents and signatures. Of course, this is very important and relevant because people today cannot really realize their rights, or transfer their rights, or trust to do, or inherit some property. So what the drafters proposed was already reported by Mr. Michael. And we don't. As they say, they were not expecting a second reading and were already working with the authors. I can propose to you to vote on this bill as a whole, because it is supported both by the committee and by scientific and expert management, but taking into account the following corrections in the text. So I'm going along with the text. Compared to that bill you have. Part of article 24 of the Law is left unchanged. The authors suggest that it be changed; it is about keeping work books in the administrations of justice. This discussion is still ongoing. We promise you to settle this issue in a large law that is currently on the committee's agenda, and in this way we will remove this problem. Then, with regard to article 37, leave it in the form of a bill of deputies that you have. Paragraph 4, which is proposed to supplement Article 40 of this Law, sets out in such an edition for the transcript: “Trusts of persons who live in population areas where there are no notaries are identified by the official person of the relevant local self-government body”. There's an editorial. So there's a little bit of a difference, and that's why I read it. Next, we propose to change their wording to: “The trusts of persons who live in locations where there are no notaries are certified by an authorized official of the local self-government authority, in addition to the trust in the right to manage immovable property, trust in the administration and administration of corporate rights and trust in the use and administration of transport means.” [[change the “appropriate body”]] It's about those. which require registration and then can be tracked and prevented from registering and abuse. Next, on the Civil Code, considering that we're looking at it right now, I'll report it. Article 245 of the Codex. A proposal from the deputies. Paragraph suggested to supplement the article: “The confidence of a person who resides in population locations where there are no notaries may be certified by an official of a local self-government body” in the following line: “The trust of a person who resides in a residential area where there are no notaries may be certified by an authorized person, a service person of a local government authority, in addition to the trust in the right to dispose of immovable property, trust in the administration and management of corporate rights and trust in the use and administration of means of transport.” That is, we are in line with the Civil Code and the Notaryate Act. In such an editorial you can adopt this law in general, the authors don't deny it, I think the Ministry of Justice will support us as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss these bills? Well, if we don't have to, let's make these decisions, taking into account the proposals that have just been made by the committee to make people feel better about the conditions they're in right now. Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u6	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Kamchatny, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. This decision certainly needs to be supported, but I have one thing, I think, or questions or needed clarifications. Reporters referred to the bill as being distributed to those living in the area. Now there's the notion of “registered for living”, it's a very important difference, a person can be registered according to passports at a given location, or they can live without registration. This I think should be clarified, “registered for living”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, then we'll all live where we don't need to. The point is that it is the rural population that is primarily addressed to this document and these problems. Please, Yuri Romanovich. Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, in fact, if you open the law, there's no isolation. There is a list of the possibilities and rights of witnessing documents that refer to representatives of authorized persons in local authorities. And attach the possibility to certify documents and signatures. There are no prejudices about those who live, where they live, and how they live. And it's only about places where there are no notaries. This is a rural area. And that's a very, very topical problem. It's clearly written both in terms of legal engineering and in terms of the content of the proposed changes. Not enough, I'll tell you, in that law that we changed, that was the norm. In fact, we are returning those already established practical mechanisms that have justified themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u9	Katerina Vaschuk. And let's make decisions, because it's a pretty obvious problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u10	The law is essential both in time and must, of course, be voted for. I would just like to remind you that before that, the village council had the right to bear witness to all the leases on the land. Today, a peasant must be paid 160 dollars for each lease. We don't have to be a minister today, a deputy, a big businessman -- you have to be a notary, and you're going to make a lot of money. Let the people make their money. But you can't keep putting a peasant in these conditions. Imagine, the tenant takes 600 pyres of land and he gets 160 times a year, it's very large amounts, and the peasants don't want to pay. So the second point we're going to have to go back to look at the possibility or to fix the price here for some of the peasants, or to look at the legal basis for the land lease. And the same is true of the property rented by the tenants. This is a very serious question. Just think, for a minute, it's a few million peasants in Ukraine -- 160 dollars for every lease agreement on land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the matter. Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk has violated an important problem, but this should be subject to a separate regulation, according to the legislative act, so that the village council does not agree who works and who rents the land. And they're “lunching” the case, so if you'll excuse me for the jargon word that that peasant won't know where to deal with that deal. This is a matter to be settled, but separately. Therefore, dear fellows! I will now put to the vote a proposal that takes into account the comments of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law 3586 amending the Ukraine’s Act on Notariat as a basis. Please vote. [[16:17:01]] For 373 Since honourable colleagues, the committee’s proposal is taken into account and on this basis the committee proposes to accept the project in second reading and in general as a law. I'm voting on this proposal. This is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Notariat. Please vote. [[16:17:46]] For 374 The law is passed. And now, honourable colleagues, draft Law 3587 amending article 245 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[concerning the powers of officials of local self-government authorities to perform actions comparable to notary ones]] Taking into account the committee's proposal, I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. Please vote. [[16:18:30.]] For 365 Decision taken. And once again, the committee's proposal to take their comments into account in the second reading and generally as a bill of bill, registration number 3587. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. [[16:19:04]] For 371 The law is passed. Thank you, Your Honor. The Draft Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code and Criminal Code is now under review. [[concerning adoption]] The reporter is the national deputy of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Jury Romanovich Miroshnichenko will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u12	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I would like to say that the bill, which I am now introducing, has brought together representatives of various factions of Parliament at the drafting stage, because among the drafters of the bill there is also a representative, there was also a representative of BUT, the late Mikhailo Orota, representatives, I'm sorry, "Block of Lithuania" the late Mikhailo Orota, representatives of the BUT and Party of Regions, this is Andrew Shevchenko and Yuri Miroshnichenko. I'm convinced that the same way all factions support changes and additions to the Ukrainian Family Code and the Ukrainian Criminal Code on adoption, because it's about protecting the rights of the child, more than that, an orphan child. According to the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports, in 2008, children were adopted more in the history of an independent Ukraine than they became orphans. Last year, 19 thousand and 554 small Ukrainian families were found, including 2,000 and 85 children adopted by Ukrainian citizens, 2,000 and 303 children living in family homes, and 13,000 and 582 children taken care of by relatives. Adopted by foreigners, 1,584 babies. By the time they became orphans, a little over 14,000 children. Of course, these positive trends in adoption add optimism that our society is becoming more attentive and humane to the fate of an orphan child. Special attention is given to this subject by the President of Ukraine, who announced last year -- the year of adoption. But today our special and increased attention also requires the exploitation of children, begging, and child abuse. Because, of course, there are sad cases when a child who seems to be receiving a new family is, in fact, affected again by the stress of becoming an orphan. And that's why today we need to be more specific about the requirements for adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u14	To keep an orphan child safe from being bullied by a stupid example. Therefore, we propose amendments to article 169 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the link of sanctions for setting up, which is established for the inappropriate actions of adoptive parents. And we propose changes to the Family Code to expand the list of crimes that limit the right to adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u15	Report completed. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u16	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, it's a very important law. I think so. We have adopted many important laws, but this law applies to children. What's going on? Indeed, the State wants our children to be raised, not in a child’s home, not in a child’s home, but in a family. But along with the practice we have today, there are occasions when those who take the initiative and adopt children abuse that right. And when they looked at what these people were, they were usually people who had a violation of the law and even a criminal past. That's why, despite what we're really representing different factions, we decided to eliminate this gap in legislation. I will say right away that the Legal Policy Committee supports this legislative initiative as a whole, the Scientific and Expert Office supports this legislative initiative, of course, by making its proposals for second reading. What are we talking about? It is to limit the number of people who can adopt a child and, in particular, to impose restrictions on the adoption of persons who have been convicted of crimes against life and health, will, honor, and dignity of a person, sexual freedom, morals, drug trafficking, or drugs, or who have outstanding convictions for other crimes. I wonder why we still haven't settled that issue. After all, putting a child’s fate into the hands of such individuals is at least risky. And practice shows that it's even dangerous. So, dear colleagues, I invite you to support this bill as a basis. And don't put it in a long drawer, to approve it in general, working on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this bill? Please sign in. Two-for-two-again. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u18	Thank you. If you'll excuse me. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems to me that the elimination of this osioea, this sin, which is in the current legislation concerning adoption, can be a certain blow and a correct blow to the company. Because frankly, any company is bad, even in adoption. And I think adoption should be a conscious choice of people who really want to carry out a humane and humanitarian mission. And a conscious choice can be made only by those who can be the authority of a child and who can be worthy of a child’s education. And so the restriction proposed in this bill not to apply to people for certain crimes or other crimes that are not listed, if the case is not executed, is a perfectly correct restriction. And since this bill is aimed at strengthening, effectively strengthening the protection of the rights of the child, protecting the interests of the child by those who adopt, we need to support it. The “Lithuania Block” will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u19	Andrew Shevchenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u20	Colleagues, the “Julia Timoshenko Block” will vote in favour of the bill. I think the logic is clear. I very much agree with the things that Irina Heratschenko, Yuri Miroshnichenko, has heard. I think it's really about the philosophy that was long overdue in this field. The state cannot replace the father, it cannot replace the mother, but the state can and must protect the child from possible dangers. And that's why we need to make sure that the rapists or the drug traffickers, they don't fall in and they're not in the sphere, and they don't work in it, and we don't put the children's fate at risk. So once again, it's about simple, very clear philosophy. The right to adopt a child, the right to adopt a child, must be earned. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block” will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. May I have your attention, please? A proposal is put to the vote for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Law on Supplements and Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code and Criminal Code. [[concerning adoption]] Registration number 2046. Please vote. [[16:27:51]] For 378 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is being promulgated (for the protection of the rights of the child under custody, registration number 2122). The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine Yuri Klukkowski. Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, recently our country, has been doing much to help children and help families with children. However, there is one nuance in practical application that relates to helping children who are not paid for by parents or adoptive parents, which is almost the same as caring for their children. The point is that the relevant provisions of the Law on State Aid to Families with Children provide for the right to help parents, adoptive parents or guardians. [[This article is articles 10, 13 and 16]] And so in the case of caregivers, you can understand that this money is being given to the caregiver. However, article 72 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which defines the order of care in the sense of material security, provides, inter alia, for the separation of custody and subversive property, and for the costs of a subordinate guardian, not for his own property, but for his own property. And so the question arises, "Who owns the help that the state gives to the child, but gives in to the guardian?" And so there are minor changes to two laws: the Civil Code of Ukraine to the third part of the 72 articles and in accordance with three articles: 10, 13 and 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children, which stipulates that the guardian is responsible for the maintenance of the child, and that these costs are the property of the child, not the guardian, when it comes to the subversive. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u23	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Ruslan Knyazevich, Legal Policy Committee. Please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u24	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting reviewed the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the protection of the rights of the child under guardianship (care) by the Ukrainian national deputy, Klukkowski Jurij Bogdanović (registration number 2122) from 25.02.2008. The draft law provides for recognition at the legislative level that assistance to a child appointed by a guardian is a child’s property and should be used solely for its maintenance. It is also proposed that the provisions of articles 10, 13 and 16 of the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children provide assistance to a child assigned to a guardian or caregiver are considered solely the property of a child who is adequately cared for or cared for. I must point out that in its decision, the committee also took into account the position of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Ukraine in family, youth and sports, which sent out their official conclusions on the expert analysis of the bill and expressed clear support for the bill. In view of the foregoing, the Committee on Legal Policy unanimously concluded: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of the child under the care, care, and care of the Ukrainian national deputy, Keykowski Jurij Bogdanović, under number 2122, to be considered in the first reading and accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a discussion of the draft law. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. National Deputy Pisarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, in general, without denying such an idea, we really need to protect our children and give them all the help we need, the only thing that I think we need to look more closely at for the second reading, so that we don't block the order, because you know, property issues are provided by law and the owner has to decide for himself the fate of such assistance. So it's actually going to help out very well, and let's go to second reading and see that there's no problem using that kind of help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u27	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u28	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! If it's thesis, there's a pretty paradoxical situation that's been talked about a little bit, but I'd like to sum it up. If we leave existing legislation, we simply have no obligation to care for the child, in accordance with legislation again, without the legal obligation to spend the money received as a child’s sole support. And the subject of the legislative initiative in his explanatory note rightly states that the guardian’s moral obligations cannot be considered sufficient in this situation as a guarantee of the rights of the child under the care of the child. [[It's on my hands.]] [[care]] So we can't put into our hands the moral preferences and values of an unknown person, and so it's perfectly right in the bill that this money should be the property of a child and only a child. But once again, while returning to the current standard, the child’s help is named as a goal, but according to the valid wording of the Law on State Aid for Families with Children, it does not belong to the child’s property. So this idea is right, it's correct, and I think it needs support. We'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law has been reviewed. [[Registration number 2122]] The Committee's proposal to accept it as a basis for voting is based on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (as regards the protection of the rights of the child under custody, registration number 2122, to be adopted as a basis. Please vote. [[16:35:30]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, now I ask your attention, we must now move on to the laws that the President of Ukraine has made comments on, that is, he has committed these laws. And first we need to consider the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres Artek and Youth Guard, this is registration number 3690. At the same time, honourable colleagues, we have before this to consider a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inventory of the land of the State Enterprise "The International Children's Centre "Artec". Taking into account the fact that the President of Ukraine has applied the veto and from this topic, i.e. land relations, we now need to put in order the day-to-day draft of the decree, to adopt the draft decree. And then, given the decision, if the Supreme Council supports it, let's move on to the comments of the President of Ukraine. Do you understand the offer? That is why I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Inventory of Lands of the State Enterprise "International Children's Centre "Artec", registration number 4129. Please vote. [[16:37:20]] For 373 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, this is a bill you have, it's been given to you. He was introduced by our colleague, the head of the Kostenko committee. At the same time, I want to remind you that the General Legal Office has been working on this document, has made it more specific. Should I read it to you? Can I read it? And you're going to put together what's different. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Inventory of Lands of Children's Centres Artek and Youth Guardia. [[So it goes into two. at two institutions]] “In order to ensure the proper functioning of the Artek and Young Guard Children’s Centres and to preserve the integrity of their lands, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. In accordance with the powers laid down in article 10 of the Ukrainian Land Administration Act, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that the three-month inventory of land belonging to the Children's Centres “Artek” and “Young Guard” is carried out on the day of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Code of Land on 15 March 1991. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, on the basis of the land inventory materials defined in paragraph 1 of the Ordinance, submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposals for the clarification of the areas and boundaries of the Artek Children's Centres and the Young Guards, which are not subject to alienation under the law. Third. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted.” What are some questions, comments, warnings? May I put it to a vote? What, what? [[B in m in s a l in]] From the moment she was accepted. Let's take it from the moment we publish. From the moment it's published, right? Well, with that. Now, please, Comrade Costenko. Is that right? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! The proposal on the need to consider a draft ruling has just been delivered to you, but I have a draft ruling on my hands, which is handed down by the Legal Authority, which is handled by the Supreme Council's legal office, and my draft ruling. I mean, the second point is we're totally in line with the kind of editorial that the Legal Authority gave us. That is, given that the law that we are about to adopt or overcome today has not entered into force, so leave paragraph 2 as a valid text, but after the words “the law” to put a dot and exclude everything else. With regard to the first point, taking into account March 15, 1991, that inventory always determines the state of affairs at the time of its execution, please leave it as it is, in the draft decision that I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u31	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, here, as we see, we have no different interpretation. The only thing we're looking for is a mechanism, as we've looked at this difficult situation. And our colleagues from the Legal, Scientific and Experimental Authority, I think, have more arguments, because it's actually about, when we assign Kabmin today to inventory property, especially land, I mean, we're already going to have a summary of "Artek" and "Young Guard," because, as you know, the first attacks started in the year 91. So I think if we want to see a story, a sad story about the capture of alienation, of course we have to do it since the 91st. Not that we're going to return everything because there are decisions, but at least to see how this has happened, of course we have to keep the 1991 norm in order to understand, as it were, the evolution of the present sad state of "Artec," because that's how we're going to fight only the consequences. So the Supreme Council gives the task to the government, whether it works or fails, question ten, but we have to be clear and firm here and add to it. For the document of the 91st year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw you to another aspect. The ruling proposed by the committee is that the Cabinet of Ministers should study what is currently in existence. Well, then why study this issue at the moment of actual existence, if we're seriously asking the question that we need to study the problem of land, let's write it down as it should be recorded. And the Cabinet of Ministers will make the right decision. And that's why the proposal of the Chief Legal Authority makes sense. And if we are to shake just the air, obviously we do not have to take this decision at all. That's the difference. Therefore, it is now proposed that, honourable colleagues, adopt the draft decree as a decree in such an editorial. I'll read it again, the deciding part. ‘First. In accordance with the authorizations set out in article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Land Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will ensure that the three-month inventory of land belonging to the Children's Centres “Artek” and “Young Guard” will be carried out on 15 March 1991 on the date of entry into force of the Ukrainian Code of Land. And the second. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the basis of the land inventory materials mentioned in paragraph 1 of the First Decision, to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposals for the clarification of the areas and boundaries of the children's centres Artek and Young Guards, which are not subject to alienation under the law. And the third. This decision takes effect from the time it is made public. Is there no objection to the vote? I'm betting on a vote to take this project as a decision. Please vote. [[16:44:22]] For 392 I'll take the order. And now, dear colleagues, we are going to consider the Ukrainian Act on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres of Artek and Youth Guard with proposals by the President of Ukraine from 20.02.2009. Registration number 3690. Reporter. Who's the reporter? Minister. Please, I'm watching. Please, Head of Public Administration Igor Grigorovich Tarasyuk, please. Please, Igor Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u34	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! On February 3, 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on State Support and Features for the Functioning of the Children's Centres “Artek” and “Young Guardia”. The president of Ukraine introduced such a bill. First. Land plots of 216,6 hectares, including 5.8 hectares of beach area, 2.8 hectares of former Ayu Doug boarding house, with a beach area provided for the continuous use of the Artek Children's Centre and 33,9 hectares of the Youth Guardia Centre. Paragraph 2 of the first article of the second law. “The ban is being established, particularly for the rental of property fixed by the Artek and Youth Guardia Children’s Centres. In this regard, paragraph 2 of the second part of the second law proposes that the word “and rent transfer” should be replaced by the words “and also rent transfer, except leases for pharmacy kiosks, engineering communication facilities, ATMs”. There is also the President's proposal for the restitution and signing of waiters in Artek. It is prohibited to set up a property service at the Artek Children's Centres and Youth Guardia on the right of knowledge, as well as on land provided by these children's centres for permanent use.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u35	Everything? Chi.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u36	Three suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u37	All right, then. Dear colleagues, all the proposals put forward by the President, they're bugged. Please sit down, then. Please, the committee, Paul Costenko, head of the committee. A committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests rejecting the proposals of the President of Ukraine as not having a significant impact on the recognition of the listed objects as institutions of state importance, health and child rest. This is the first time. Secondly, the delay in adopting this law will actually make it more difficult to set up a tax debt regime, to define the characteristics of the legal regime of property attached to children's centres. Thirdly, that's the main thing. Further, so that no one would be tempted to charge any homage with the lands of Artek, we adopted a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was commissioned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in accordance with the Ukrainian legislation, to conduct an inventory of the lands of the Youth and Child Centre of Artek and to make proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Functioning of the Children's Centres of Artek and Youth Guards after it became effective. Please support the Committee's decision to reject the comments of the President of Ukraine and the adoption of the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u39	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, now, one minute, we must now proceed with such a procedure to vote on every Presidential proposal if the President's proposal, the proposals will be taken into account, so we will be placed before we are required to adopt the law in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals. If at least one is counted, it will also be a new edition if we vote on at least some of the President's proposals. If the President's proposals are not supported, then I'm going to put the veto committee's proposal to vote, if the veto is not overrun, that means the law is rejected. Do you understand the suggestions? So, honourable colleagues, five minutes from the faction, it's a very important document, and so we don't have political disputes here. Please write down from factions after one minute. I'd like to see your name on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u40	Thank you. Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Deputy Blackmore Alexander Alexandrovich, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u41	A colleague of the Black Seas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u42	The point is that when I considered the bill, I mentioned that there were about 200 families living in Arteca, people who had been given apartments, and there had already been cases where cars had not been allowed to come to those houses, and they could be moved to Arteca. Imagine, a man bought a locker, and he can only take it on a helicopter. Therefore, paragraph 4, which prohibits the setting up of a plot of land service, I suggest that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u43	I want to say right away that we can only consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine. When we looked at the draft law, we had to make proposals. Unfortunately, it's too late. Please, who's next, I don't have a microphone, a computer. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u44	Thank you. I think that here is our faction, and the whole Parliament is beyond doubt to support this bill. It has to be voted on either, under any circumstances, or the veto, or taking into account some of the President's proposals, because in principle, most of these proposals are more formal. And here I want to support the head of Mr. Costenko's committee in that we will, in principle, put a dot in the debates and speculations about who and to whom the "Artek" and "Young Guard" should belong. They should belong to our children, they should belong to Ukraine, they should belong to the State, and under no circumstances do we deviate. So I urge you to abandon all political disputes, abandon all ambitions and vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u45	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u46	Oleg Zarubinsky “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, you know the question of "Artec," really, it's been politicized and it's been the subject of more fights, mutual accusations, who stole from whom, who did corruption, and so on. I think that's not the point right now where we have to continue with these mutual accusations, including those that don't allow us to go properly to the legislative process. So obviously, if the Supreme Council's will is to overcome the veto, it might be an optimal option. And then the law adopted by the Supreme Council will become effective as soon as possible. I think it's for both Artek and the Young Guard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u47	National Deputy Davidenko, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u48	Please pass the word to Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u49	Irina Heratchenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council! Of course, our faction will fully support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine regarding the solution to the fate of Artek. And all we can say is that the President of Ukraine has pointed out that the children of a camp that has such a great history should belong to the whole earth, the whole territory that historically belonged to this camp. Moreover, we want to draw our attention from the representatives of other factions, particularly the Party of Regions, that every day we receive such disturbing information from the Crimea, that it is the representatives of this political power that get the land there somehow illegally absolutely. And the people who make up most of the village councils in Crimea from the Party of the Region don't solve that question. And, in particular, there is now the court's decision, and the prosecutor's rulings regarding the return of the land of Artek, but the Gurzuph village head does not pay attention. And we thank the President for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u51	National Deputy Najdionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u52	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u53	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u54	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! This is a rare case where a representative of a Communist faction might say that part of the president's remarks would be worth agreeing with. But given the fact that you and I just made a decision that essentially counts and comes out of the President's comments, it goes even further than the guardian of the Constitution. So we're not just talking about 2.8 hectares here, but we're speaking, if I'm not mistaken, the Artek had 600 hectares. Now it's three times less. I mean, really, figure out where these hectares are. That's one thing. The other one. I would like to draw attention to the chairman's words that if we don't vote either way, we can burn the law at all. So let's be very, very careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u55	Dear colleagues! We exchanged thoughts. Well, we need to move completely away from politics and make a normal decision. So now I'm going to put the President of Ukraine's proposal to the vote and announce it. The president of Ukraine made three proposals to this law. The first suggestion is this. In the second paragraph, in the second part of the first article, replace the words “and renting ” with the words “and renting ” in brackets“. ” [[In addition to renting pharmacy kiosks, engineering buildings, communications, ATMs]] I'm putting this President's motion to a vote. Please vote. [[16:55:43]] For-47 The proposal is not supported first. Second sentence of the President of Ukraine, please listen carefully. The president proposes that the second part of the second section of the second section of the two laws be drafted in such a way. Land areas 216. 642 hectares, including 5,000 82 49 hectares of the beach area, 2.8 hectares of the former Ayudag boarding house with a beach area provided for the continuous use of the Artek Children's Centre and 33.9 hectares, including 0.95 hectares of the beach area provided for the continuous use of the Young Guard Children's Centre, belong to the land of state ownership and are not subject to alienation. I'm betting on this motion from the President of Ukraine. [[16:56:51]] For-79 The decision is not supported. And three, please. And the third amendment of the President of Ukraine to that effect. Article two of the laws add some of the meaning to this. It is prohibited to set up a property service at the Artek and Young Guard Children's Centres on the right of knowledge, as well as on land provided to these children's centres for permanent use. Please put to the vote this amendment. [[16:57:38]] For-198 The decision is not taken. The second proposal, honourable colleagues, is a proposal by the committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Act on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres “Artek” and “Young Guard”, registration number of Law 3690. I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to defeat the President's veto on this bill. Please vote. [[16:58:22]] For 378 Decision taken. The next law is the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a Special Temporary Investigation Commission and temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine applied his veto to this law in 07.02.2009, registration number 3250-D. The rapporteur is the Deputy Head of the Secretariat of President Ivanovna Stavniychuk. The co-reporter will be the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas. Please, Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u56	Thank you. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies and present at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The law under consideration, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, provides for the establishment of commissions, temporary commissions of inquiry, a special interim commission of inquiry, a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not as parliamentary bodies, but as independent law enforcement bodies with virtually unlimited powers, which are governed by the provisions of the Ukrainian Procuratorial and Criminal Procedure Code and are not subject to control as provided for by these laws. According to the Constitution, the tasks of the interim commissions of inquiry and the Special Interim Investigation Commission are not to hold individuals accountable, but rather to prepare and review questions, to investigate issues of social interest. Then, granting such commissions the powers of law enforcement authorities is not in line with the Basic Law. It is unfortunate that the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not heed the President of Ukraine's proposals, which are based solely on the need for clear compliance with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and the non-admission of violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. The Head of State proposes to take into account his proposals concerning the 10 specific issues enshrined in the law. In doing so, according to the relevant conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the experts of the Supreme Council's Apparatus share the position of the President and agree with most of the comments made by the President of Ukraine. So it's the basis of the observation. Foreshadowed by the provisions of part four of the first article, part one of the first article 24 of the Law, the way in which the organization, order, the work of the temporary commission of inquiry, the special commission of inquiry, the temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by decrees of the Supreme Council does not correspond to article 19, part five, of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to the Constitution, their activities should be established exclusively by law. In connection with this President, appropriate changes are proposed to the drafting of the law, to articles 1st, 4th and 24th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u57	Allow me to make a point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u60	The President’s nine - page veto was substantially reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u61	Mary Ivanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u64	The law lists the issues from which interim commissions of inquiry can be created, is of a general nature, is not exhaustive and does not correspond with the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which are defined by the Constitution. There are no clear criteria for issues of social interest, nor are there any limits to the exercise by the interim commission of inquiry of parliamentary control. It is thus proposed that the reasons for the establishment of temporary commissions of inquiry of the Supreme Council be clearly defined by aligning them with the powers provided for in the Constitution and the work of Parliament. Considering that the interim commission of inquiry is a parliamentary body and is duly authorized by its derivatives, this commission cannot be given powers to warn persons who are invited to give appropriate evidence, to give appropriate explanations, to make appropriate decisions on the application of the case, to the competent authorities of the inquiry, investigation and court. In view of what has been said, the second sentence of part one of article 19 of the law is proposed. The fourth point. In part 3 of article 19 of the law, the person under whom they are entitled is not. Yes, there is. persons who have the right under the law not to disclose certain information. And along with that part of article 18, part 1, part 1, of article 19, article 20 of the Law provides for the unconditional right of temporary investigators of the Supreme Council to require, remove from them information media, the obligation of relevant officials, officials to give true testimony or explanations in circumstances that do not apply to them. That's what's being investigated. In view of the foregoing, it is suggested that the amendments be made to article 18, part 1, part 1, article 19, article 20, paragraph 1, part 3, of the law regarding the making fit. their provisions to the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, which provide for the relevant restrictions. Fifth. Part 1 of article 18 of the Law gives the provisional commission of inquiry to the Supreme Council the right to determine the time limit for the submission of documents and information. Thus, artificial conditions have been created to hold individuals accountable, as provided for in article 351 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The law should clearly define the reasonable deadlines for the temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide documents and information. Then it is suggested that adjustments be made. In addition, according to article 24, section 2, paragraph 2, of the Law, a temporary special inquiry commission of the Supreme Council conducts investigations in the event of the commission’s appointment of other circumstances without further making the decision of the Supreme Council on the matter and, on the basis of reasonable grounds, drawing the appropriate conclusions. The granting of such powers to a temporary commission of inquiry is contrary to the content of article 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine and leads to the exceedment of the powers of these committees. In connection with article 24, section 2, paragraph 2, of the Law is proposed to be deleted. In accordance with article 25, paragraph 5, of the law, section 2, of a special investigator’s office as a special prosecutor, a person may not be recommended by a court of law. In view of the fact that valid Ukrainian legislation provides for qualified requirements such as that persons cannot take appropriate positions that have a case of outstanding and unremoved in the established law. The President of Ukraine proposes to bring these provisions of the law into line with the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to two more positions and finish. Article 24 of the special interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council grants the right, inter alia, to require the necessary documents, materials, and other information relating to the investigation, to appoint experts if necessary. Part three of article 29 lays down requirements for the conclusion of the President's indictment, which is made up of a special interim commission of inquiry, taking into account the requirements of the indictment. Thus, it is established that the law lays down grounds which, if not provided for, are not provided for in the Constitution and in the legislation of Ukraine. There is no reason to consider the investigation to be a pre-trial investigation by the interim commission of inquiry, which is established in Parliament, based on the Constitution. So it's also suggested in this case that the relevant provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine should be maintained as part of the impossibility of empowering the relevant commissions of inquiry as criminal and procedural bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a short-term procedure. In summary, we've been reviewing the bill. And this is going to be a completely different procedure, so the rules follow. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u66	Ending up, respectable.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u67	They just accidentally wrote, well, by accident. Please, Marina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u68	To conclude, I would like to point out that the proposed edition of part one of article 31 of the Law excludes the possibility of the creation of a temporary special commission by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare a preliminary examination of other matters relating to parliamentary powers than those envisaged by the above-mentioned provisions of the law, which does not conform to part two of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the Supreme Council may, within its powers, establish temporary special committees for the preparation and prior consideration of matters. So the honourable colleagues, in view of the proposals I have listed, as well as the additions to the law given to you in writing, are proposed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 January 2009 to consider the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, the Special Interim Investigation Commission and the Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u69	Thank you, Marina Ivanovna. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules, MP ethics. organization and provision of activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas. Well, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u70	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On 15 January 2009, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council. On February 7, 2009, the President of Ukraine returned the law, making a number of general comments to it and suggesting that it be reconsidered, taking into account the proposals. The February 18th Committee considered the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine made proposals in ten paragraphs. Some of these include amendments to several articles of the law. Taking into account the specifics, I stress that the specifics of the President's proposals, the committee on the table, have formulated 19 proposals. Of the 19 proposals presented in the table by the President, it is made. in accordance with the requirements of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 7 April 98, number 11-p/98, seven proposals, i.e. they are motivated and formed. In particular, the President proposed a different edition to part 4 of article 1, to part 5 of article 4, and to part 1 of article 24 of the commentary. In the table of proposals number 1, 3, 10. In view of his view of the way in which he regulates the organization and arrangements of the temporary investigators of special commissions and the special interim commission of inquiry, the Supreme Council’s decision does not correspond to part five, article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine. But that the Rules, which regulates the organization and activities of the Supreme Council, should be adopted exclusively as a law and should therefore stand before the laws of Ukraine, not as recorded after them. The committee rejects these proposals, since the Supreme Council’s decisions on the activities of the commissions only define the composition, purpose, term of commission and content, and the date of the report. In addition, the Supreme Council passed the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was published for the first time by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and where the regulations were written after the laws. In part one, part four, article 19 of the table of proposals Nos. 6 and 8, the President considers that a temporary commission of inquiry cannot be authorized to give a warning about the criminal liability of persons invited to testify. The committee did not agree with this position in view of the fact that such responsibility is already provided for in articles 384 and 385 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. In paragraph 2 of Part One, article 24 of the table of proposals No. 11, the President considers that the mandate given to the special commission of inquiry, namely to conduct investigations in the event of a disclosure during the term of office of a special commission of inquiry of circumstances concerning the commission of the President of State treason and other crime, without further making a decision by the Supreme Council on the matter, is contrary to the content of article 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine. These remarks are rejected because part 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the authority of a special interim commission of inquiry. I wanted to point out that this rule is conceptually enshrined in the law with a view to preventing the President-General's Office from interfering with the investigation carried out by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because when a criminal case is investigated, the investigator has a number of actions that make it impossible to intervene in this process of interested persons. In paragraph 5 of part two of article 25 of the table, Presidential proposal No. 14, states that a person who is proposed to serve as a special prosecutor, a special investigator, cannot be recommended if he has a case that has not been dismissed or removed in accordance with the law. This proposal is rejected because the Supreme Council conceptually agreed to a different position. In view of the fact that we generally feel that a person who should serve as a special investigator, a special prosecutor, should not be judged at all. All other proposals of the President are rejected because they are not specific, undeclared or clearly stated, which does not meet the requirements of section 2 of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 7 April 1998, according to which the President of Ukraine has the right to return the law with his reasoned and formulated proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u71	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u72	with proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Using the presence of Marina Ivanovna, a very experienced lawyer, I would like to draw her attention to the requirements of the 98th article of the Rules, which defines what are the suggestions that they represent in terms of the treatment of certain positions. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has decided to re-examine the bill, to invite the Supreme Council to reject all the President's proposals and to overcome the veto. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, we will now do the same, that is, according to the Rules. I'll put the President's motion to the vote. Since you have a table, I'm not going to make the president's proposals in the form of amendments, we're just going to go after the numbering of these amendments. Please take the tables. President's first proposal. I'm putting her to a vote. The committee rejected it, but the Supreme Council must decide on its decision. Here comes the vote. [[17:15:13]] For-26 The decision is not taken. Now I'm making an amendment to the second president of Ukraine in the form of a proposal that is formulated and you have it. Please get to know each other carefully and identify yourself. [[17:15:43]] For-34 No correction supported. Now, proposal number 3 of the President of Ukraine, on page 5, please. I'm putting her to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:16:07]] For-33 The offer is not supported. Now Amendment 4 in the form of a proposal made by the President of Ukraine is page 15. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:16:33]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Amendment number five on page sixteen. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:16:56]] For-36 The decision is not taken. Amendment number six on page seventeen. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:17:17]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Amendment 7 also on page 17. Please vote. [[17:17:39]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 8 on page 18. There's a vote coming. [[17:18:01]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Now put to the vote the 9th amendment on this 18th page. [[17:18:24]] For-30 The decision is not taken. President of Ukraine’s tenth proposal on page 22. I'll put her to the vote. [[17:18:46]] For-33 The decision is not taken. President 11's proposal, also on page 22, is for the vote. [[17:19:09]] For-33 The decision is not taken. See also the 12th Amendment on page 22. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:19:31]] For-39 Correction not accepted. The president's thirteenth proposal on page 23. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:19:55]] For-38 The decision is not taken. The President's 14th proposal, page 25. I'd like you to look and identify yourself. [[17:20:15]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Offer number 15 on page 26. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[17:20:41]] For-45 Correction not supported. The sixteenth proposal of the President of Ukraine, page 27, and the sequel on page 28. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[17:21:10]] For-48 The decision is not taken. President number 17's proposal on page 30. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:21:36]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 18 on pages 32 and 33. [[17:22:01]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The President's proposal under number 19 is now put to the vote. See page 33. [[17:22:24]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, all 19 amendments I put to the vote. Unfortunately, they didn't find your support. A committee proposal is now put to the vote. It is intended to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the President's veto be overtaken by the Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, calm down, dear fellows! I am voting for overcoming, I am proposing a committee to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine on the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3250-d]] [[17:23:36]] For 391 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 174, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 151, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 20, Communist faction – 27, "Clocus of Lithuania" – 19. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Prevention of the Negative Effects of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of an Agro-industry Complex, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since February 20, 2009 is under review. The rapporteur is Minister of Agrarian Politics Yuri Fedorovich Melnik. The spokesman for the committee will be Vaszczuk Catherine Timofievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u74	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 February 2009 by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws to Prevent the Negative Effects of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of an Agro-Industry Complex, returned by the President with the following observations. First. It is proposed to delete the rules of article 2, paragraph 2, of Section 1 of the Act on the arrangements for banks to secure debt for farmers' loans, to prohibit banks from re-evaluation of the cost of collateral, order and features of the implementation by the National Bank of support for the liquidity of commercial banks that issued loans, because such changes do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and a number of existing laws of Ukraine. The other one. It is proposed to delete paragraph 20, paragraph two, of section two, of the Act banning the sale of agricultural land because the rule is already regulated in the Land Code, which stipulates that the agricultural land market is only possible after the adoption of a whole series of laws regulating land relations when selling land. A very brief report that the Cabinet of Ministers supported the law and made appropriate proposals. Information complete, report complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u75	Thank you. Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk, secretary of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u76	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee's position on the selected issue has been narrowed down. We are not looking at this bill for the first time. You all remember that this law was passed with you in December. He significantly improved the situation for rural producers, particularly for individual suppliers of goods, left 20 percent of the value added tax as a subsidy to the price, and regulated other relations between producers and banks, and other institutions. We got the President's veto on January 14. A bill was considered at a committee meeting and then at a meeting of the Supreme Council, and most of the President's proposals were taken into account, except for two, which Mr. Minister of Agrarian Politics had just reported. What did the committee decide after reviewing the President's veto? The committee notes that the existing coalitions between the norms of paragraph 11 of the Final Provisions of the Act say that the Banking and Banking Act and Article 334 of the Code of Master and Article 1054 of the Civil Code can be removed if we adopt the following law that we have prepared by the committee. There is only one word that banks are obliged to extend loans to peasants. And the third. This is the case with the President's comments on the ban on sales of land in the United States. the purpose, although this rule is governed by the Earth Code to some extent, namely, without the adoption of certain laws, the law on the sale of land cannot enter into force. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. But we don't consider its reinforcement to be that, and what's more, it's operating until 2010 on January 1st, which could cause the President's veto. Taking into account the needs of the village’s legislation, today all processing enterprises do not pay 20 percent of the price to farmers, but pay them as a tax on added value to the State Budget, and the village loses very serious amounts of money. And given that the prices for produce are particularly animal and are so low, we have terrible consequences. So the committee asks you, honourable national MPs, and has made this decision, to overcome the President's veto, because once again it's a month or two more peasants won't be getting any price subsidies for their products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u77	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Have a seat. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u78	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Unfortunately, it's not the first time we've met that we're living under the Constitution of Parliamentary Presidential Authority, but the Presidential Vertical is still in effect. Please tell me, what is the attitude of the Head of State now to ministers? What right does he have to assign ministers to speak under certain laws or other laws? What's more, you can understand ministers – it's the law of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers passed the law, and then the President obliges the minister to promise the Cabinet of Ministers. He has the right to represent only those who work in the President's Administration or the President himself or have him appoint a representative. I think it's unacceptable that another branch of government is coming and reporting to us on drafts, which they themselves are making, and they themselves are coming here to overthrow the bill. Let's put it in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u79	Thank you. I ask the Regulatory Committee, on the subject of Rules, MPs, to ensure the activities of the Supreme Council, to study this issue in the part that should represent the interests of the President when the President of Ukraine applied to the veto. We've faced this for the first time, and there's obviously a problem. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The first is to vote on the President's proposal, which was presented by the President of Ukraine to registration number 3353. I will be the first to vote on the proposal of the President of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[17:32:02]] For-44 The decision is not taken. It is now up to the vote to propose a committee on overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of an agri-industrial complex." Registration number 3353. Please vote. [[17:32:41.]] For 382 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have been here for a long time to address the two MP factions "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" and "Block of Lithuania" requiring a recess, but we've had a conversation here with the factions, they're ready to make their statement now so that we can continue our work. Is there no objection? Please, Taras Steckov on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! I'm authorized to make a statement to the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." The "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" faction took an outrage at today's position of the "Julia Timoshenko" on the resignation of the foreign minister Vladimir Ogryzka. A third of the BIT faction voted in favour of this issue was a gross breach of the coalition agreement. In this regard, we demand that a coalition council meeting be held as soon as possible, as well as general coalition assemblies with the participation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our faction demands that the BUT faction immediately initiate the annulment of the decision to resign the Foreign Minister, Vladimir Ogryzka, made by the Party of the Regions and the Communist Party, and to vote in favour of such a decision. This will be an effective confirmation by the leaders of the BUT faction that the vote of 49 deputies did not match the position of the faction. We also believe that BUT leader Yulia Timoshenko has a personal and clear position to express as soon as possible on the errors of part of the BUT faction. We have to say that this similar behavior of the BUT faction endangers the effective functioning of the coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so the responsibility for correcting this unfortunate situation lies solely with the Timoshenko Yulia Block. The synchronism of the BUT factions and the Party of the Regions on March 3, such as the issue of the resignation of the Foreign Minister and the cancellation of elections to the Ternopil District Council, raises direct associations with the facts that have already taken place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The BUT faction then voted in favour of decisions made by the Party of Regions that were dangerous to the State and aimed at the personal ambitions of its leaders. We call on Yulia Tymoshenko to make every effort to restore trust among the coalition's members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u81	Dear National MPs, at the Conciliation Council meeting, when we discussed the President's proposals for a law that we have decided on, namely, to amend some of Ukraine's laws to prevent the negative effects of the global financial crisis on the development of the agro-industrial complex, we also talked about the need to adopt another law. This is a draft law amending Chapter III of the Final Position Act of Ukraine on the first-line measures to prevent the negative effects of the financial crisis and to amend certain legislations of Ukraine. Registration number 4118. But to do that, we need to put this project in the agenda first. That's why I'm asking for your attention! There is a motion for inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 4118, please vote. [[17:36:48]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say that this is about a law that should complement an organic decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please don't shout. Because when it was discussed at the Conciliation Council, there was such an accepted offer. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, it's the Supreme Council's will. So, please, for reasons of five minutes. Please sign up. And we continue our work for 15 minutes, which is up to 18 hours 15 minutes. Yuri Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u82	Please pass the word to Catherine Timothy Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u83	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I understand those who have not supported this bill. There is one standard that is important. We don't have the processing companies to do full-scale certification of all the products they produce right now. And they're going to face a lot of fines. We're just going on for six months to carry out the certification of this product. That's why this is the basic position of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u85	Thank you. The People's Deputy of Paris, the faction of Our People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u86	Please hand over to the group leader “For Ukraine!” Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u87	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u88	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “For Ukraine! ” Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, we can act as if nothing has happened today, but I am paying attention to my colleague Steckov's statement that we should correct, as the statement put it mildly, a sad mistake that relates to the fact that the foreign minister, who was a person of an independent foreign policy course, has been dismissed. But with the hands of a coalition, one of its leaders is the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm a long way from thinking that you're going to put this question to a vote right now, because I don't see such a willingness on the part of the Timoshenko Block, but I'm convinced that you're the leader of the coalition, one of the leaders, the first question of the day after the MPs' speeches, you're going to make a decision to cancel the Ogrek's release decision. And then you're going to demonstrate that today's behavior, directed at making this decision in the morning, was obviously a shame and a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u89	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u90	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u91	Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I support what Catherine Timofievna said, in fact, the bill that is proposed in 4118 deals with the problematic issues that we voted in the previous law by overcoming the President's veto. We can actually paralyze the work of the processing industry right now and have a lot of trouble in the consumer network, the law requires consideration both in the first and second readings. Because whether the date will be there by 1.01.2010 or maybe the Supreme Council will agree by September 1, 2009, that's already set in the second reading procedure. But if we don't adopt this law, we actually get the previous law blocked from the point of view of one of the areas of the agro-industrial complex, namely the processing sector. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the proposal to re-vote the return and the inclusion in the agenda so that we don't have a problem in the consumer network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u93	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u94	Thank you. I'd like a word with Sergio Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u95	Sergey Rybuk microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, may well be, but now the Supreme Council, as I am concerned, has made the right decision and voted not to include it in the agenda. Why? This law, the draft law proposed by 4118, proposes to amend Law 3353, the veto just overcame by the Supreme Council. But it's not signed yet, so we haven't been able to pass the law yet, and it's not signed, it's already proposed to make changes. That's the first one. And the second. We've invited all the executive authorities that are relevant to the standards, and they said they're ready, and since September 1, 2008, the executive authorities have been obliged to introduce these standards so that no one can eat those snacks that can be eaten, as an example. I mean, let's take a week or two and we'll take it when the law's in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u97	National Deputy Karpuk, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u98	Vladimir Karpuk, MP for Ukraine! Please give the floor to your colleague Roman Volodymyr Tkach.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u99	Roman Tchac, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u100	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm basically very short. I just wanted to emphasize what Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk said. We have just defeated the veto and are making changes to this law. So I think we should wait and not vote for this bill. Let's go through the committees, there's still time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I just want to say that the proposal was made by Viacheslav Kirilenka. I think the President of Ukraine is right, if there is such a need to correct this resentment, as you said, to submit Vladimir Ogryzka to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, she will consider it. And what has happened has already happened. I don't think we're going to complain right now, and the Supreme Council won't stop working for three days. The other one. Dear colleagues, it is clear that we are in the midst of an active work here, or I have not made a clear proposal, I have suggested that we include this document in the agenda just as we are now going to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the eight daily bills that apply directly to peasants. About getting into the daytime. And let's say that after the President has determined with this law, he'll sign it and we'll look at it. That's what we're talking about: inclusion in the agenda. So I'm putting the vote again, dear colleagues, please note, to return to the agenda. What is it? You look at the ending position, then you say no. It was provided for by this law to ensure its entry into force within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law, the established prime State standards for meat products and so forth, and so forth. If this law goes into effect, you are well aware that within 15 days no one will do anything, huge fines will be paid. So now it's just a question of getting into the agenda, no more. So I'm voting on a motion to return to the consideration of the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 4118. Please vote. It's about getting involved and all. [[17:44:42]] For 181 The decision is not taken. The bill is not included in the agenda. Now, honourable colleagues, we should consider including in the agenda of the daily draft laws amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the employment of members of private agriculture. This is registration number 4043, 4043-1 and 4043-7. Just eight bills. So there is this request and this is from the Committee on Social Policy and Work. They're going to take a closer look at these bills tomorrow, and if the Supreme Council supports it, we're going to include them in the agenda, and we're going to look at them, and we're going to look at the appropriate committee of expertise on agrarian policy, land relations. On Thursday, we will consider these bills. But the request to implement the proposal of the Conciliation Council to go out on a coherent project so that we can adopt the law immediately. So I'm only voting on the inclusion of 4043, 4043-1, 4043-2, 4043-3, 4043-4, 4043-5, 4043-6, 4043-7, which are alternatives. Please vote. [[17:46:22]] For 399 Decision taken. Thank you. Now, dear fellows! Here we go to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws. [[Registration number 3556]] [[second reading]] Do you have anything to do with the deviation? Before the vote, you are. Well, Peter Stepanovich Zibenko as long as he's right, Valeriy Mikhailovich to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u102	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first Deputy Head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. I am grateful to you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that you have pointed out that there is a draft of my ruling registered for this draft rejection bill. But I'd like to, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich, but I would like to remind you one more thing, there's another draft decision to cancel the results of the first reading, right, it's registered under another number, but it applies to this draft law. So I think it would probably be appropriate if we first looked at the draft decision on the rejection of the document, and then, if there is no result, then we would actually consider the amendments that were made by the committee to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u103	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is no such procedure as deviation, and we can consider cancelling. I would now ask the secretariat to submit this draft and before the final vote, a vote will be put to the vote on the first motion to cancel the vote on its adoption in the first reading. Please, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u104	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! In your view, the proposals for second reading of Bill 3556, concerning the proposals that came into the bill for consideration in the second reading, 21 proposals were considered, 12 included, 3 counted editorially and 6 rejected. I don't know, now in position, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So, it's just, uh, it's, uh, it's just, uh, it's just, uh,
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u105	Let's go to the repairs, shall we, dear fellows?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u106	Well, if there's no objection to amendment, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u107	So, amendment number one, amendment of our colleague Suškević, it's taken into account. Is there a warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u108	Let's get those who don't, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u109	One minute! Here is how sensitive the law is, if there are any warnings, we have to go as required by the Rules, no, let's move on. Amendment number two.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u110	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u111	Alexander Lavrinovich. Counted. Isn't there any other way of thinking? Amendment 3, National Deputy Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u112	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u113	It's rejected. But we have to put it to a vote. Doesn't the amendment insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u114	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u115	I'll take the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u116	The only thing I want to say, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is that when this amendment is adopted, if it's rejected, it will lead to a budget balance for the Pension Fund. And in principle, if you accept it, that part of the bill disappears altogether below. So this amendment is very problematic. I would very much like not to vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, I am voting on Amendment No. 3 of National MP Hara. Amendment number 3. Here comes the vote. [[17:50:34]] For-152. Correction not supported. Amendment number 4 Lavrinovica Aleksandra Volodimirovica. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u118	It's considered editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u119	Dear colleagues in editorial matters, I don't agree here, because there is still a narrowing of pensioners' rights and discrimination depends on the year of retirement of a citizen. I therefore insist that this amendment be put to the vote and that I ask the national MPs to support it. We don't have to discriminate against our pensioners depending on the year they retired.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u120	I'm the only thing I want to say, colleagues, if I accept this amendment, it won't allow us to make that preference that we made to seasonal workers. That's why the committee doesn't support it. And he made an editorial report so that it wouldn't interfere with supporting seasonal workers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote Amendment No. 4 of the People's Deputies of Lavrinovich. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u122	The committee does not support this. [[17:52:01]] For 177
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u123	For - 177. The decision is not taken. Now the fifth amendment of Alexander Lavrinovich. Written: edited. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u124	We were just voting on her.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u125	Oh, no. We voted on the fourth amendment. And the fifth amendment, our colleague agrees with the editorial consideration of it. Correction of the Sixth People's Deputies of Hara. Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u126	The committee does not support it, for this amendment will also lead to the balance of the Pension Fund. And in addition, there's going to be a reduction in the individual coefficient and the size of pensions in the rest for some pensioners. That's why the committee doesn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u127	At the same time, I'm putting to the vote Amendment No. 6 of National MP Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u128	So once again, it's going to bring down the coefficient. The committee does not support this. [[17:53:02]] For 171 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u129	Correction not accepted. Amendment number seven, it's counted. No warning?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u130	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u131	Amendment number 8, do you also count?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u132	Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u133	Amendment No. 9 of the Culchinsky People's Deputy is dismissed. Is our colleague insisting? No, we vote, I ask, does a colleague want to argue with his amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, I want to say that the committee, when I looked at this amendment, supported it in principle. But the request that this amendment be implemented in a separate bill. Otherwise what will happen. The Constitutional Court, along with this amendment, will reject this law as a whole. Really. That's a hundred percent precedent. And if we take this amendment into account now, the bill will generally be challenged in the Constitutional Court. So the request for this rule, if we all agreed, would be implemented in a separate bill. The committee proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u135	Dear National Deputies! At the same time, the amendment of the People’s Deputy Kulczynski is put to the vote, which is the ninth amendment on page 5. There's a vote coming. [[17:54:26]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Amendment 10 is included. Amendment 11 counted. Amendment 12. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u136	Declined 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u137	11th M.E., your 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u138	11th count. The 12th is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u139	Yes, the 12th amendment was rejected. Alexander Lavrinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, this is the same problem. But it's more local, it's about those who retire in the current year 2009. And what's suggested in this case in the third part of the transitional clauses is that we get that part of the people who are going to retire this year. Calculate the status for 2007. I don't think it's a normal approach for a country that has 22 articles of its Constitution that prohibits citizens' rights. I'd like to support this amendment. And those who retire this year so that they can get their pension as well as those who retired last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u141	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u142	The committee rejected the amendment, since the amendment would not allow the part of the pensioners who had the right to be recalculated to be eligible for the following year. So it's real for a part of the pensioners, it's going to be kind of a positive, it's not for a part. So, given this, the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u143	Dear colleagues, I would like your attention. There's a vote, a serious bill, I'd like your attention. The vote is amended as follows: 12 People's Deputy Lavrinovich. There was just an argument for this amendment. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u144	The committee does not support this. [[17:56:36]] For 186
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u145	The decision is not taken. The 13th amendment is taken into account in an editorial way. The 14th amendment is taken into account in an editorial way. Is there no objection? Correction 15, accounted for. Amendment 16 counted. Amendment 17 counted. The 18th amendment was rejected. Xenia Leapina, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u146	Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine! ” I would like to point out, my fellow Members, that this is the most plausible amendment to this law. In fact, it involves increasing the burden on small businesses at least twice as much. We've made such mistakes before. I call on my esteemed colleagues to make more similar mistakes. We're not getting anything from the Pension Fund, because these entrepreneurs are just going to shut down. And even that one job, maybe two that they're creating and from which they're paying into the Pension Fund, will also close. We're only going to get losses in the budget, not income at all. I insist on voting on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u147	Please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u148	The committee's position is to reject this amendment. But what I'm saying is that this amendment has seen the biggest debates on the committee, so let the room be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, you understand what this is about, don't you? Just now, our colleague Xenius Leapina has justified her amendment. I'm putting her to the vote, she's 18. Please vote. [[17:58:33]] For 396 Amendment number 18 counted. Amendment number 19 of Anatolia Seminoga is included. Amendment 20 counted and amendment 21 counted. So, your honorary colleagues, we've considered all the amendments, and the Supreme Council has made the appropriate decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u150	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to stress that this bill is extremely important because it touches the financial and pension stability of our country. I ask that it be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, before we vote in general, I'm here to see you. A draft decree of 15 January 2009 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the lifting of voting for the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the adoption of a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian pension insurance laws has been tabled. [[Registration number 4114]] The content is: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to cancel the voting results for the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 15 January 2009 No. 896-VI on the adoption as a basis of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian pension insurance laws.” So I am obliged to put this project to a vote. National MP, author Beviz. But it's not the agenda, it's the honourable colleagues, it's already been the question, it's suggested that we essentially look at it. That's why I'm voting on this motion for a ruling. Ladies and gentlemen, please identify yourself. [[18:00:30]] For-198 The decision is not taken. And now, dear fellows, I'm putting it to a vote. What? About the deviation? There is no such deviation, Peter Stepanovich. We voted everything. Dear colleagues, there is no such thing as rejection in the Rules. Haven't you registered much? There's no such thing. Well, please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko before the vote. But there's no such thing as too bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u152	Thank you. The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, is the first deputy head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. Dear colleagues! I'd like to talk to my colleagues first. Remember that this document, which is currently in the second reading vote, is conceptually the same document that you and I rejected in December, has not been included in the agenda. Second of all, it's him. Conceptually, it's the same document that they tried to get through the rent law so that the MPs wouldn't figure it out. It's what's going on. And most of all. I would like to address the citizens of Ukraine. It's the same document that tries to get 6 billion dollars out of your pockets in pensioners, veterans and disabled people. There are several ways, one of them is to use pensions for pensioners who retire in 2009, the average salary for 2007 in spite of current legislation, if that's what it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Honorable colleagues! Well. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please! Well, I just gave Peter Stepanovich Cibenka my word because he put in a draft decision. Notwithstanding the fact that the Rules do not currently provide for such regulations, he has also introduced a draft. In order to express your opinion. Well, with motive, please, five minutes. Sign up. Five minutes of motive. National deputy of the Potapov, faction of the Party of the Regions. We continued our work for 15 minutes, dear colleagues. Is the Potapov National Deputy? Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u154	Dear colleagues, to avoid misunderstandings and to understand what we are doing and what we are voting for. If I had heard from the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund here today that the Ukrainian Pension Fund had problems, I would have voted in favour of this bill with my eyes closed. I heard there's no problem at the Pension Fund today, there wasn't, and there won't be. Thank God, Hooray! Retirement payments are made as a clock — excellent. Like someone says there's a deficit, the pension fund says there's no deficit, it's okay. So this bill, on the average, we're taking from 300 to 500 dollars from the pensioner, because we're going to have a count and we have a bunch of letters. Here's the last letter from the "Chornomorsuda project" in Nikolayev that this bill is making the pension situation worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u155	The Najdion People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u156	Please pass the word to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u157	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u158	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this bill is one of the main requirements of the International Monetary Fund. We're not going to get any trances if we don't dig up the pensioners -- that's the specific answer why the Cabinet of Ministers is promoting this law. It's 6 billion, said my colleague Cibenko, and it's only worth 6 billion for 2009. But the drafters of the bill were so wise that they continued to do so for 2010. And I don't rule out that in half a month they're going to continue on both the 11th and the 12th. Who do we want to approve of the International Monetary Fund? Do you, excuse me, national MPs, have no conscience that you will now choose to the last thread those who gave you life, those who gave you the opportunity to exist and sit here safely? Who are you listening to? Why and how you will raise your hand to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u159	People's Deputy Olijnik, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u160	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The law that we are considering today is truly vital and relevant. It applies, in fact, to every pensioner. But I want to confirm, actually, today the idea that this law is clearly not meant to reduce any pension preferences or anything else. The law will allow us to reaffirm today that the Pension Fund and we MPs guarantee that every pensioner in our country today will receive a pension on time and on an adequate scale. I think that's the most important thing that concerns every citizen today, especially a pensioner. And so when we say today that we're going to take 300 or 500 dollars, that's really not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u161	National Deputy Sovkovic, faction of the Party of the Regions. There's no Sowkovich? Please, Andrew School, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u162	Thank you. Gentlemen, I call on you at all. We had a long discussion. I think we need to take and vote now, because when we hear information about there, 6 billion from someone is added or subtracted, about the International Monetary Fund, which dictates the terms of the Pension. Well, that's all the political part of the legislative process, and the whole point of the legislative process is that we have to balance the Pension Fund, not improve it, it's not in decline right now, but the balance is completely probable. This law is balanced by the Pension Fund. So I urge those who respect pensioners, those who not only want to support, but who want to provide Ukrainian citizens with decent old age, please vote in favour of this bill. And don't hide your attitude towards the government or the prime minister, just show your attitude towards the least secure sections of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u163	National Deputy Ephraim, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u164	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u165	Jaroslav Suhi, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u166	Dear colleagues, I would like to conclude that no one would mind taking part in the development and adoption of so-called not-popular drafts in a crisis. There is no problem, we understand very well, the crisis requires adequate action from us. I've just never heard of the Pension Fund asking us to do that before. The Pension Fund doesn't have any problems. It's completely cost-effective. Industrial production is shrinking by 48 percent, the payroll fund fell by 48 percent, and the pension fund is somewhere where the money comes from. If today, if this norm comes, keep in mind that the 2009 pensioners will be recalculated on average, not in 2008, but in 2007, I'm telling the young Ukrainian people's deputies. In this way, every pensioner will lose the same least protected levels of the population, vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-03-03-m1.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. I'm voting on the committee's proposal, and I would like to draw attention to the adoption in the second reading and, as a whole, as a law, of a bill amending some of Ukraine's pension insurance laws. [[Registration number 3556]] Here comes the vote, your honors. [[18:09:17]] For 177 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block – 150, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 7, Communist faction – 0, Litvina Block - 20. Thus, honourable colleagues, no decision is taken. So, what are we going to do? Dear colleagues, since it's been 10 minutes, five minutes, we're not going to be able to start the next bill. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we will continue to work in plenary mode on Wednesday's schedule, and also on the basis of those bills that we have not been able to look into today.
