ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u1	Please include the “Council” system. There were 411 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our consideration of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to support the agri-industrial complex in the context of the global financial crisis. Registration number 5416. In the discussion, the word is given to the national deputy, School Andriy Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u2	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, clearly, after the break we should remind ourselves that we are discussing because the break was ongoing. It's about supporting the agar complex -- it's a very clever and broad concept. In fact, we want to make it clear that the initiator is proposing to protect our main producer of cattle is a peasant. Well, we know very well that 96 percent of the garden provides us with an area. The milk is almost now under 97 percent of the area, that is, the cow that is in our peasant’s possession. We fully support a very interesting initiative, and I think it's going to be hard to contradict it. But really, what's the biggest problem here? That is, we know where the road is headed with good intentions. So here we have to clear this road to the peasant so that someone, somewhere out there, who distributes these funds, doesn't own them, they get directly to the peasant. Most importantly, the most important task, the initiative, is supported. But I would point out in such a way that we need to support it in the first reading, we need to process it, we don't need much time here, we just need a collective mind here. And on Tuesday, maybe not later, it could be Wednesday or Thursday, but at any rate next week to vote on this whole bill, but I'm sorry, the formula where the money is going to work for the peasant, not the one who's standing over it or next to it. Because there were so many foundations, institutions that rarely provided for peasants. Finally, there were the first steps of control, there was passporting, there were others. is meant. But here is essentially a political component, not professional and not even professional, and here we have to use a mechanism that would provide funding directly to someone we want to finance. And here I call on the Supreme Council to vote in the first reading and then as friendlyly as we vote in the first reading, in the next draft of the bill, and no further than the next week to vote on it as a whole so that by the new year, the funds can already come. I mean, it's about January of the month so the money can already come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u3	Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u4	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! The faction of the Party of the Regions, the Party of the Regions has always supported, supported and will always support the village and the peasant. Because we, on the other hand, from the ruling government of Yulia Timoshenko, are well aware that there will be no village, there will be no independent free Ukraine. The draft law provides for the introduction of a tax-added tax on agricultural, forestry and fishing activities, which will leave 7.4 billion dollars for farmers only in 2009; a continuation without limitation of fixed agricultural taxes, which, under the terms of the State Tax Administration in 2007, ensured a reduction of taxes on farmers in the amount of 2.5 billion dollars. The bill also provides for a solution to the problem of paying for grain storage, food reserves, and so on. The purpose of the draft law is to restore the agro-industry-friendly conditions for preventing the negative effects of the impact and the global financial crisis. The faction of the Party of the Regions as an opposition faction calls on the government majority to support this bill, which will help the peasant in these difficult conditions of the financial and economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u5	Blackmore Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u6	Dear colleagues! One of my acquaintances told me that in Norway, in one of the world's most advanced countries in the north of the country, cows are walking among glaciers and snows the size of a buffalo, which, in comparison with our cows, excuse me, the prisoners of the concentration camp, look quite impressive. Why? Because the State also makes every cow 600 euros there, and the people who contain these cows are not only keenly interested in having enough of them, but in making these cows feel right. Therefore, if we are to seek European experience, it is only for this reason that we must finally adopt the bill. But the only thing I fear when this bill is passed is that I believe that the mechanism of responsibility is not sufficiently worked out, because we must follow through and adopt the article of the Penal Code, because if we model the situation, we can assume how many adjectives there will be and the number of cows on the paper in a year will be several times more than they actually are. Continuation of funds. How? What if someone stops you from passing these funds? Inadequacy of these funds before. a specific owner. What's in it for him? Or is there nothing going to happen? If there's nothing wrong, then we can keep this bill safe. That is, in adopting provisions that would determine not only that a peasant would receive money but also a mechanism to protect him from possible attacks and possible counterfeiting. I don't think there's any doubt in my mind that this bill has to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please, Timoschuk, Vashchuk Catherine, please. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask everyone once again to clarify one point, the point that we are writing that if the funds are distributed, it can only work when we, by adopting the budget for the next year, formulate a separate tape to create such a fund. And we can only accept it if there's a very clear distribution system of that fund that will ensure that the funds actually reach everyone who raises the livestock, every farmer, every farmer. Today, if we adopt this law in general, the old system of things will work, and we will work for it. The processing company, as a price subsidy, provides these costs to farmers. So everyone who's afraid to vote in favour of this law that changes shape doesn't have to be afraid, because we accept it in general. And since January 1st, unless otherwise stated in the budget, this rule regarding the individual fund doesn't work, but it just goes on to do the added-value tax act in the same mode as it was. At the same time, the tax on fixed and all of the points that we have written in the law continues. So without our will to create this fund and write it down in the budget, we're not risking anything. Therefore, there is no need to be afraid or resuscitated. And I'm talking to you again. Dear colleagues, let us adopt this law. Do not give God, if he does not pass through us in general and is not signed, the villagers will not understand us if they have to pay all kinds of taxes from the new year. I am very grateful to all who have upheld this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u9	Replica, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u10	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to answer those who don't know why I'm interested in agrarian questions, maybe they'll be interested. That I am the president of the Association for Clean Agriculture, Environmentally Secured. That's the first reason. And the second reason. For someone who screams "Oh!" and who doesn't know how to act, I want to remind them that the Party of Native Defenders programme foresees as the main task of protecting the village and the peasants, including their ownership and ownership. And the last. I wanted to say that my late father worked as a veterinarian all his life. I'm talking about what those who don't understand. And what colleague Vaszczuk said. She's absolutely right that there's no underwater currents, because there's nothing to distribute so far. It's only going to be when there's a line in the budget. You can take it in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u11	I am voting for the adoption of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in the first reading. [[supporting the agri-industrial complex in the context of the global financial crisis]] Registration number 5416. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:12:57]] For 318 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We're taking part in the High Council plenary meeting now, Minister of Agriculture Yuri Fedorovich Melnik, if you don't mind, I'd like him to express his point of view right now on the possibility of passing this law. Please, Yuri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u12	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to thank you for the decision you made, because, in fact, you have adopted in the first reading today those standards that were in Bill 922. I want to thank the people's deputies who supported this bill for their support, for their understanding. And I ask very much for a second reading, next week, to put in a revised bill to regulate standards by the end of this year. Thank you very much, and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy fully supports the position of national deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u13	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. Dear colleagues! During the discussion, suggestions were made that there was a need to make some suggestions for second reading. I want everyone to hear that the national MPs say that it is necessary. I then have a request to the committee to deal promptly with the proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies, and I ask the National Deputies to make their proposals immediately so that the next week, when the committee is ready, we will immediately consider in the session room the proposal for inclusion in the meeting schedule when it is ready, so that we can consider it in a second reading and approve it. Is there no objection? Thank you. Let's go back to the question of the report of the Interim Commissions. The issue of the report of the Interim Investigative Commission on the investigation of the violation of the Ukrainian legislation requirements for the alienation of shares held by the State-owned agricultural machinery companies in connection with the operation of the open stock company lysing company UkraineInvest, as well as the investigation of the circumstances leading to the bankruptcy of the Open Shareholder Company "Hersonski Kombains". Report by Skoubenko Volodymyr Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u14	The President-in-Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine established an interim investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation (a violation of the requirements of Ukraine’s legislation when disposing of shares held by state-owned shareholders in the field of agricultural engineering) on 20 March 2009. In connection with the operation of VAT lysing company “Agromashinvest” as well as clarifying the circumstances, the bankruptcy of VAT “Herson Combains”. The following tasks were placed before the interim commission of inquiry. Investigate the circumstances that led to the violation of Ukrainian legislation in the alienation of shares held by state ownership, stock companies, agricultural engineering, in connection with the operation of VAT lysing company "Agrochasinvest". And secondly, to find out the circumstances of the bankruptcy of the Hersonian Combins. As for the first task, during the period of work, the commission found that, as a result of the actions of the employer, the Ministry of Industrial Policy and the officials of VAT, the lysing company “Agrorashinvest”, which has signs of crime, the state lost control over the management of this leading state holding in the field of agricultural machinery building in Ukraine. Enough to say that 37 state - owned companies were part of the holding company. But with the help of the officials of Minprompolitics and VAT, the lysing company “Agromashinvest”, co-owner of half the state property became the unknown offshore company, the non-resident of Ukraine “Interlink Overseas Corporation. In a further criminal way, the VAT statute was amended by the lysing company "Aggrochasinvest". As a result, 13 holding companies were clearly transferred to private entities without a privatisation procedure. In this way, a strategically important branch for Ukraine has been virtually destroyed. The chronology of events was next. A Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 16.10. In 97 a state-owned lysing company “Agromashinvest” was established. On March 7, 98, the Cabinet of Ministers passed a statute and a list of enterprises that were transferred to form a statutory fund for the company. I note that this decree fixed 26 percent of the established statutory fund in state ownership by a term of five years. On December 22, 99, the Cabinet of Ministers issued a decree to increase the company’s statutory fund. The board, together with the company’s observation board, was instructed to take steps to complete the formation of a statutory fund on the basis of State investment. To carry out this decision, the company made an additional issue of shares and registered them with the State Commission on Securities. The investors of the lysing company Agrorashinvest have already been mentioned above by the non-resident company Interlink Overseas. I would like to point out that certain investors were held without a competition and there was no argument. Moreover, no dependent valuation of the value of 49.92 shares was made — a percentage of the shares sold to the offshore company. As a result, the latter bought them for only 28 million dollars, and provided for transparent privatization, the amount could be tens of times higher. Even so, these meager costs were not used for the sale of nearly half of the state holding because the companies did not use them to finance the production of agriculture, but they bought no software in the other company, the so - called holding system. And what's interesting is that she bought it from the company that ran it herself. Thus, the money just turned around in the state and went abroad. As a result, the balance sheet of the state company has produced an unknown software product worth 30 million dollars in the same amount. So far, it's not set where this software product is, and that's the holding system. In the course of the company’s activities. The commission explained that the same person represented various companies and Interlink companies and Pilar and Ukrapilar, which was a citizen of Israel, Uri Bidar. I mean, there really was a company here that was very professional in alleviating government property. It was all at the direct participation of Deputy Minister of Industrial Policy Padalk Viktor Grigorovich. According to Padalk Viktor Grigorovich, which is included in the criminal case number 491853, he recalled the previous draft status of the company in relation to the fact that he was instructed by the Ministry of Industrial Policy to work out a draft statute designed for the benefit of Offshore Company Interlink. The company’s shareholders were then held, and changes were made to the company’s charter to question the members of the commission, which was held on May 22, 2009, and Mr. Padalko did not give a clear answer why he, as a representative of the State, supported the company’s general shareholders’ meetings to amend the statutes that allowed the company’s management to alienate the property of the huge holding in the statutory capital of which the shares belonged to the State. During the investigation by the commission of the cases, it was found that a protocol of the general meeting of shareholders had been falsified, that it had been falsified by the head of the government of Horoshdale and the deputy head of the government of Calgan. The registrar, because of negligence, or for other unknown reasons, recorded these changes for just being removed from the protocol. As a result of the commission's work, a criminal case has been reopened by the Attorney General's Office, which is now under way. I think that, given the work that the Commission is doing further, we will bring this matter to a logical conclusion. With regard to the bankruptcy of the Herson Combins. In 2004, a similar scheme was developed when, under the auspices of the State Property Fund, Interpipe, a serious infringement of legislation replaced the head of government and the head of the VAT Observation Board of the "Herson Combains". It is not hard to guess that this new head of government and the head of the observation board were individuals directly linked to the Interpipe Corporation. But for the new owners, the open stock company "Herson Combains" has not changed better, and the financial situation of the company has worsened considerably, resulting in bankruptcy and claims by the Hersonian District Economic Court, the Stroycomplet, which is controlled by Interpipe Corporation. And the newly elected government of the "Herson Combains" did not pay off the debt, despite the fact that the monthly money turnover was much higher than the amount claimed in the amount of 160,000 dollars. This fact can only indicate that the company’s management deliberately led to bankruptcy. Then the events also unfolded with great interest. The owner of VAT “Herson Combins” was Bilodid, who so far consistently represented the interests of Interpipe and related structures. At the same time, a new legal entity of the Herson Machine Plant is being created at VAT. On June 25th of the same year, the Court of Commerce of the Herson Region approved a peace agreement whereby the newly formed Herson Combins Society, think about it, received the entire VAT complex of the "Herson Combins" for many millions of years, in exchange for the repayment of 160,000 creditors' debts. Even though it wasn't done. The creditworthiness has not been restored and the business has not continued. As a result, all these rallies and occupations took place by the labour force of the territory and the assets of the Herson Machinery Plant. And that's what happened after that. When, after that, the Herson Machinery Plant entered into a contract with the Ministry of Industrial Policy for an amount of 4 million 147 thousand dollars for the production of a new combine and instead received money, and the same Mr. Padalko, mentioned earlier, also participated in this crime. This money was stolen, and some unknown design documentation was made instead of a new combine, which also disappeared. On what, then, were government spending already spent? All of this on the evidence of our commission's investigation has led to the fact that there is a sufficient field of activity for the Attorney General's Office. We interviewed all the people who participated in this scheme. A lot of interesting material has been received. These materials have been transferred to the Attorney-General's Office. The Attorney General's Office has initiated and reopened closed criminal cases. The Commission has now developed the concept of a new Law on Agricultural Engineering Reform in the Agro-Industry Complex. That's the bill. We have prepared a draft decree of the Supreme Council, and we believe that by 20 March, before the deadline for the commission is over, we will have already received a concrete reply from the Attorney-General's Office and will introduce a new legislation that makes such actions impossible in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u15	Please write down the question for the reporter. Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u16	Dear Volodymyr Petrovich, well, in your report, indeed, the terrible figures and facts that you have explained, thanks to the work of the commission. As a result, I have a question. You've informed both the people's deputies and the people of Ukraine that 37 state-owned enterprises have thus been privatized by fraud. Please tell me, once such facts have been established, and the facts have been established since they acquired a national declaration, did the Attorney General's Office file a court order for the renewal of state ownership of these enterprises by recognizing that these sales contracts were fictitious? That's the first question. If served, what was the result? And the second question. Has the Public Prosecutor’s Office taken any action so far in accordance with its obligations to return these enterprises to state ownership? And the third question. This is Interlink Corporation where it is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u17	Please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u18	Where is it registered, is it an enterprise, and is it legalized in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u19	I'll start with the last one. The enterprise is registered in the offshore zone and is not a resident of Ukraine. That's the first one. Second. With regard to the Attorney General's Office. As I have already said on request and at the suggestion of my commission, the Deputy Attorney General Kuzmin resumed the criminal case, which had been closed before. And in this criminal case, investigations are now under way to interrogate officials. At the request of the Commission, the Ukrainian State Property Fund has appealed to the Kyiv Economic Court to challenge all these treaties and is now preparing for trial. I think we can, with the help of the Attorney General's Office and the Holding Foundation, turn some of these enterprises into state property. Although they've been resold several times, as I told you before. These groups have acted professionally enough. As soon as it was reselled, it was repeated several times using the institution of a good buyer. But I think we're gonna get to the bottom of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u20	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u21	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. Dear Volodymira Petrovich, one of the great classics of ancient Rome or ancient Greek, said: “Money will not smell.” But money, unfortunately, has color. I'd like to ask you a question. What color are the abuses you were talking about today? Because the second day we hear about the abuses that unfortunately took place yesterday in Crimea, in Sevastopol, in Glycine, in Herson, in those areas that are controlled today by the Party of Regions. Don't you think? The point is that today this political power is unfortunately leading all of these schemes of dissipation. Please tell me, is there a political subtext to this? Is there something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u22	Thank you for asking, Valery Grigorovitch. I'll say I'm in favor of the fact that crime doesn't have color. Unfortunately, it has shown that the commission's investigation is totally not owned by any party flags. And this transaction, which began before individual parties, was attended by farmers who were covered only by political signs. I will say that there was simply a banal theft of State property, but it was not carried out by political forces. I don't want to call right now because the commissions were coming out of both the legal and the left-hand sectors of the hall. This is not the subject of the commission, namely, the case of the Attorney General's Office. And by the time we're done with the commission, I think we'll call these people names in the final report. I'll be back by 20. The process is still ongoing. That is why I would like to allow the Commission to complete its work by 20 March. And that's where the final address is for the characters who will be with the material from the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u23	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask that we don't mess up what's going on in the session room. And when it comes to yesterday's report by a member of the faction of the Party of the Regions, the national MP of Vernidubov, who admitted that they had done a good job. Abuse involved representatives of other political forces. So please see why you did not support this report. Then criticize others. Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u24	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. I thank you for your good work. But what I want to ask is, did the commission in this case, or the law enforcement authorities in Ukraine? Because it's been a long time. These are the events of 2003-4, 2nd. With regard to drawing Israel’s citizen Uri Bieder to criminal responsibility, as the money went there, to an offshore company. Because you write what's installed. And as you explained, you are writing on 6 sheets, or all of the above actions were known to Prime Minister Kinahu and Minister of Industrial Policy Gurieva, who also did not take any measures to protect the rights of the State. That's what I quoted. Did you call these people? How do they qualify for what happened? And how do we restore justice and take away now, there were 19 companies whose shares were.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u25	I will say that the Commission held 11 meetings, 11 minutes of the meetings of the Commission were established. Many civil servants and officers were invited to the meetings of the commission. And I'll say there's a lot of material that you've been reading in the report. Many decisions were made in the light of the blessing of the Cabinet of Ministers. And you know that the Cabinet of Ministers is a collective body that makes a collective decision. That's why we said it was visible here, because it wasn't just under cover of night, someone came in and stole the stock case, it was all done so thinly and neatly, using existing legislation that somehow allowed, let's say, interpret the legislation that was in place at that time in order to absorb public funds. Used the most sophisticated methods, worked a well-qualified legal group, and was a good follow-up to the case. And I think it's a question to date.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u26	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u27	The Attorney General's Office, who has received this investigation and must complete it. That is why we need to continue to work within the existing commission before March when its term expires.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u28	Zibenko Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u29	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear Vladimir Petrovich, I have listened very carefully to the report of your commission, the commission you led, and I have come to believe that the commission has tried to establish justice where it is not possible in principle. Because the experience of post-Radians privatization, at least in Ukraine, shows that privatization, at least in Ukraine, cannot be fair or honest or even more popular. And the findings of your committee confirm that. Please tell me, don't you think there's something else to go on? In particular, my colleagues, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and Catherine Samoylik, proposed a draft Act on the return of the Hersonian combines to state ownership. To our conviction, this is a more effective tool for order in this regard. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u30	Thank you for asking. I'll tell you that there are two areas of activity here. The first is the adoption of the bill passed by Mr. Simonenko, and it can only be decided in the Supreme Council Hall. And the second. I don't agree with you that you can't fight for justice where it's not defined. I am still following that slogan that Julius Timoshenko proclaimed that justice is and must be fought for, even when there is no opportunity or basis for it. I think we will achieve what will be called the people who have stolen this state property, and justice will be restored. With regard to the return to state property, we have developed a concept of a law that concerns not only Hersonian combines, but also the entire complex, all 37 factories.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u31	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's sign up for a discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u32	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, once again you've found out that crime does not have party color, it's just an appetite. And once again, they found out how ineffective the services that we were supposed to have are working today without a commission of inquiry. So I support the conclusions of the commission of inquiry, and I think that all the decisions that are recommended should be changed. Apparently, the Court of Auditors, the General Audit Authority, has to report to February 1, 2010, apparently. They can't do it before physically, because it was written here, until December 1, 2009. Obviously, the next date in paragraph 5 should also be changed as a minimum to February 1, 2010. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that while you and I are listening to reports of old events. Now, in excess of his authority at the Mikolai seaport, his captain Rybczykov unlawfully banned the conduct of the Nibolon boat “Preventer” under the load of some 60,000 tons of barley. It is a United Nations program to provide food for countries suffering from hunger. And despite the fact that the Mikolai District Authority's decision to refuse to grant a permit is illegal, the ship has been forced to remain simple for more than two months. And just like that, it costs $45,000 a day. I'll point out that this company is also run by the Hero of Ukraine Wa. Turkish. And there's nothing the hero of Ukraine can do. That's why these causes of harm happen to Ukrainians every day, and I'd like the Attorney General's Office to pay attention to them, and pay attention to the government right now, and in general, I assume that you can get this enterprise back to state property and release normal combines. Look at what we were given instead of the ISS-200 combine, more loyal to ISS-200 instead of 250. Instead of KPC-10, KPC-9-2. I mean, you and I have been fooled all the time, and we've been voting here and thinking that we're supporting a domestic producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u34	I'm going to vote in favour of the panel's conclusions and I'm going to ask you for all the points of the commission's decisions that we've made, and I'm going to report to you in front of us one day. So we are the day of hearings of the Attorney General, his intercessors of all. Let them come after each commission. Deputies are not textbooks. Instructive in the Attorney General's Office. Deputies are not suitable in the HeadCRO, they are not handy in the Court of Auditors. All of these organs, including the B.B.I.S., M.S.S., tax, financial monitoring, have to sit and report, and sit around all day, from morning to evening. And the state needs to see that they're getting paid. And we don't have to work for them. We have to listen. They're not answering, they're letting go. And put it on that dot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u35	Smithuh Grigori Yudkomovich. The faction guarantees the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words from the faction, as Mr. Kamchatny said in his statement, that the question is being addressed by national deputies from the Party of the Regions. I want to make it up to you, first of all, because it's not reliable. This is the first time. Second, the report of the commission's chairman was by Padalko Viktor Grigorovich, who is now the deputy minister of industrial policy, who specifically said that he had a bearing on the illegal privatisation of 37 state-owned enterprises in the field of agricultural engineering. So I would ask a colleague to look carefully at who is involved before accusing the Party of Regions, coming out of the materials provided by the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Supreme Council Decision on the report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation in relation to the violation of the requirements of Ukrainian legislation in the alienation of stocks held in state ownership, agricultural engineering stock companies in connection with the activities of the Open Stock Exchange Company, the Leasing Company “Ukragrochasinvest” and the investigation of the conditions of bankruptcy of the Open Shareholder Society “Hersons Combains”. [[Registration number 4836]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:42:35]] For 206 The decision is not taken. For reasons of vote? Please, Valery Anatolyovich Bondik for the reasons for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, do you know why this bill on the interim commission of inquiry has not been voted on? I respect Mr. Scoobenko, regardless of his attitude toward another faction. But he also has a rich experience, as it were, of reprivatizing the Debaltzian State Metalworks. So, I'm not mistaken, Mr. Volodymir? So, you know, this politicization, we either need to continue the work of this commission, or we need to take it off the table because there are no votes. It's like normal facts have been examined, we've given a political assessment, and the Attorney General's Office has to make a legal assessment. I mean, right now, we're not directing the Attorney General's Office, we're just making the facts public. I would say that if the Attorney General listened to these facts, he would find reasons and grounds for a criminal case, or he might not listen and find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u39	Please, National Deputy Skoubenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say first that I don't know, Mr. MP, where did you get what Debaltsevsky factory in the same. I've never had anything to do with it. And I think this is the vote and not vote of our colleagues on the right hand side for the sufficiently qualified work of the commission, where the facts are established, I said from the rostrum, they don't have any beauty: white, yellow, green, it's just pure crime. And either we in the Supreme Council assess this, or we agree that all the privatization that has been done in Ukraine is covered by the Supreme Council. Therefore, I ask that I return to the vote and still approve this report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u41	Please, National Deputy Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u42	Landik, faction of Party regions. You know, normal was the report, normal Skoubenko reported, everything was fine. But you don't have anything to hold on to, you always have a Party of Regions to blame. Kamchatny starts by blaming the party, I don't know, maybe, or by covering up the theft of “Rwenkyantracite”, “Sverdlovantracite” by billions. We're sitting here tonight, and there's billions of them stealing. And we're starting to blame, and we're going to raise questions here, and that's why he doesn't want to vote on another faction that's been accused of anything or anything in the Hersonian factory. You need to be more resilient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u43	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u44	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, all have come to realize that there have been very serious violations associated with this plant. Now let's at least announce a moratorium for five minutes so that we don't charge each other with any privatisations so that we don't vote to have any argument. And then there will be no argument, because everyone understands that such shameful things that were mentioned in the report of the commission heads should not be repeated, including with regard to other businesses, because this is the result of the work of these companies, which is suffered by those who live around businesses and depend on the work of these companies to be effective. You don't have to blame each other right now for not making a decision. Our offer. Really, go back to voting and make a decision. And please don't call the other factions. Don't call. Let's make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u45	Thank you. I am voting on the motion to return to the decision on draft Decree No. 4836. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:47:03]] For 210 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. By factions, please show me. They asked for factions. Region Party 4, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 133, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 29, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 15, non-fractional - 2. Dear colleagues, the decision is not taken. The commission continues its work until March 20 according to the term on which it was formed. The report of the Interim Investigative Commission on the investigation of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine has been published in the interim elections to the Ternopil District Council on 15 March 2009 and the falsification of their results. The head of the commission, Ivan Vasilovich, is sick, is there any member of the commission who is ready to report? None. Yes, the report of the commission is submitted. Please, dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! The Commission’s report is presented, as we considered today another report, the deadline for the commission’s activities ended on August 19. Dear colleagues! We can discuss today, we can not discuss the report, but. [[B in m in s a l in]] Of course. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a need to discuss, dear colleagues? None. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Interim Investigative Commission on the investigation of the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine in the conduct of successive elections to the Ternopil District Council on 15 March 2009 and the falsification of their results. [[Registration number 5271]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:49:54]] For 197 The decision is not taken. As of tomorrow, the commission ceases. The report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the situation, the death of the National Deputy of Ukraine IV, the convening of Plujnikov and the seizure by unknown persons of his property, the shares of the Inter television company is being reviewed. The commission did not file a report, but the chairman of the commission filed a motion for a suspension of the work of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the deaths of the Ukrainian National MP IV of the Plužnik call. [[Registration number 5075]] I am voting on the motion of the chairman of the People's Chamber of State, Portnov Andrija Volodymirovich, to vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:51:05]] For 134 The decision is not taken. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, let us find out, in particular, about this commission. We have not once invited members of the Commission, the Chairman of the Commission, to report to the Committee in order to consider and enter a proposal on this matter. Both members of the Commission and the Chairman of the Commission have refused to report to us even to the Committee. Today the question arises, the commission does not work, does nothing if, according to our documents, those who accompany the work of the commission receive wages and corresponding material incentives, incentives and so on. The regulation now provides that if the commission has not submitted a report in time, the following day it ceases to operate automatically. What are we doing today, what are we voting for? The Commission is not working, we have to stop its work and put an end to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u47	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u48	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this is an almost unique case in general, and I would like to support the offer of the head of the Temporary Special Commission. Very rarely, when the Temporary Special Commission, the more its head, is asked to stop its commission. You see, and today we've continued the work of every commission: whether we need it or not, we've continued it. You'll see what the panel head, a colleague of Portnow's, writes in an explanatory note, what he's saying is that we have to stop the commission. Well, first of all, the election shouldn't touch that question; but second of all, he's proposing that all the materials that are in the process. The commission’s work was to ensure that they were not simply left behind, and he suggested that they be transferred to those authorities that could or could not. Because anyway, so that the Interim Special Commission doesn't accept it, it ends with us sending these documents to the appropriate authorities of the Attorney General's Office or to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'm asking you to come back and.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u49	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u50	And to support the Portnova Collegiate Decision Project, we're going to give you a very logical approach, because in fact, the commission carried out its issue. She proposes to stop her activities and file documents with the Attorney General's Office. That's all she's gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u51	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u52	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! We have now just witnessed how often-manufacturedly-created commissions have been, when the object of research "a" has not been clearly identified. And "b" when commission members themselves do not want to work on such committees leads to the full promotion of what is on a special and temporary commission of the Supreme Council. I just have a suggestion that we pay attention to this and take it as a lesson. Is it worth making nonliving from the beginning of the commission? If there is no report of the commission’s activities, there is nothing to talk about. I'm sorry. And it seems to me that we have to stop these committees clearly, expeditiously, and let them not, once again, discredit our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u53	Please, Smithuh Grigori Evdzimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u54	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! I want to remind all my colleagues that you remember when this commission was formed, then, on the initiative of the reporter, who was the author of Portnow, he emphasized that there were sufficient facts to confirm that there were certain criminal acts. Today, the chairman of the commission does not even try to get to the rostrum and explain why he proposes to close it. So, of course, as with the national MPs, what were the reasons for the opening of this temporary commission of inquiry, and why are they now refusing? So that there might be some sort of conspiracy between specific interested persons or other motives. Personally, I have a question for this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u55	The statement on the grounds of the vote has been completed, and I am voting on the proposal of National Deputy Martiniuk Adam Ivanovich to return to the draft ruling of Portnova Andrija Volodymirovich. [[5075]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:56:02]] For 176 The decision is not taken. I'm leading you to your knowledge that the commission was created is due to work until May 19, 2010. The report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of situations related to charges of delinquency of minors is now under review. Since the head of the commission, Catherine Semenovna Samuelk, is sick, I wonder if there are any members of the commission who are ready to present the previous report. None. Dear colleagues, the draft decision, or the report from the commission did not come through, the previous report was due in accordance with the decision to set up a commission and the Supreme Council Rules in November of this year. Please, the microphone of the people's MP Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u56	Thank you, Martinuk faction Communists. Dear colleagues, it is quite important here that when a commission was set up, when we asked Catherine Seminal to lead this commission, she took the job, but unfortunately, a few days after that, we were in a serious car accident and she was in the hospital for a long time and continues her treatment today. There are purely objective reasons. Perhaps I would like the commission itself to meet and continue without the commission's head, but here's a purely objective reason, I'm explaining this to our voters so that it doesn't seem like the commission's head is, well, ignoring or avoiding the commission's work. Because of such objective circumstances, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u57	Please, National Deputy Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, I am absolutely understandingly referring to what Adam Ivanovich said. And so the way out of this situation, the commission was created 20.10 every three months. So she still has time to report. And I think we'll hear after the deadline set by the regulation, and we'll make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u59	Roger that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a board member, a deputy chairman, who's ready to report? [[B in m in s a l in]] National Deputy Corge, deputy chairman of the commission, is ready to report the previous report to the commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a second. Yeah, well, don't scream. There's a question for the vice president of the commission. Or is it. Please be quiet. Has the Commission’s previous report been approved, or has the commission been assembled, taken a decision? [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. The commission did not approve the report. So we're going to look at when the term is due, and we're going to look at it in. [[B in m in s a l in]] The report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the circumstances concerning the arbitrary seizure of land, the illegal construction in the city of Simferopol of living, office and entertainment centres, as well as the inaction of law enforcement agencies, is under review. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't know what the question is. From the procedure of our work or something? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please wait. Leonid Ivanovich Graz, what's the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u60	The issue of broadening the topic under consideration by Ekaterina Semenovna Samoylik. But in this case, I have a question to you, as one of the leaders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, of course, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that it was in the midst of a scandal about pedophilia of 22, 21-22 October on the 3rd floor here, as we say, under the dome, that an exhibition was held, called non-governmental organizations, where, among other things, polygraphic bases were provided with well-prepared homosexual aids. I ask you to understand who in the Supreme Council of Ukraine allows such things to be carried out?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u61	Please, Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselov, head of the interim commission of inquiry, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u62	Yes, after that, very, very serious material will not be understood. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your attention is drawn to the report of the Interim Investigation Commission on the investigation of the situation of the arbitrary seizure of land, the illegal construction in the city of Simferopol of residents, office, entertainment centers, and the inaction of law enforcement agencies. The commission was created by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 9, this year. The previous report of the commission was approved at the TSK meeting and was submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the signatures of the People’s Deputies of Kiselov, Kendzior, Baranova, Baburin and Omelchenka. These members of the commission took an active part in the work. Having gone to Simferopol and visited places of self - capture and on objects that are built without proper permission or on the basis of falsified building permits. The members of the commission came to the conclusion that there had been an increase in the representatives of the criminal business with the authorities, law enforcement agencies, and individual judges. And it's in the report they gave you. No criminal case under article 197 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code for the arbitrary seizure of land and for the arbitrary construction of objects in my parliamentary appeals has been dealt with by the prosecutor’s office. Following the capture of the land and the arbitrary construction of the Gagarin Park, it was established that the person to whom the Simferopol City Council assigned the area had not filed an application for its receipt. But the criminal case against the local authorities, who forged these documents, does not violate, even according to the materials of the Ukraine’s Directorate General for Crimea. The annulment of illegal building permits, 37 of which have been illegally issued, is not sought by the prosecutor’s office. And after holdingbud control's inspection of the D.A.'s office turned to the D.A.'s office to stop the illegal construction of a multi-story building on 23 Zhelyabov Street, two more were built on three floors. A seven - story office center was built without a permit to build a one - story two - story apartment building on Kazanska Street without a change of destination. And it is the deputy director of the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who has the right to issue permits only in Kerch, Feodosia, and Sudak, according to the distribution of his duties, to issue a building permit in Simferopol. And in June, when it was three months ago that the license of the construction company was denied, the Molechanov continued to operate the construction license in Simferopol on the street of Kazanska, 1. On July 16, the licensee denied the license of the law enforcement firm. But instead of drawing a fine of 50 percent of the value of the built - up, tens of millions of dollars, it is done to put these objects into service, in accordance with article 32 of the Land Planning Act. The Commission notes that on April 16, when the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litwin, announced a parliamentary request to the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, asking him to stop numerous violations of the law in Crimea, the Prosecutor's Office sent formal letters by July 24. Even when there was a large number of people at the “FM” shopping mall on May 23 in the Yaltine Tour, there was a fire and there were casualties. It has been established that a number of objects have also been built without proper technical supervision and are working without the success of the State Commission. And all that the Crimea Attorney’s Office has done has demanded of the Statebuilding Inspectorate a list of these objects. I think it's right when you name the main ones. The Snow Queen trade pavilion on Kareimska Street, two shopping and exhibition centers on Victory Street, two Furshets, Lokomotiv Stadium, Prague Restaurant on Turkish Street, a shopping and exhibition center on Kickimecki Street, a multi-story residential building on Rostovska Street. AZ - AZ “Converjennik” on Moscow Road, a gas station on the Moscow Route. All of these objects are objects of increased social danger. And after what happened recently at the FM and recently in Perm, it would also force the authorities, the controlling authorities, to take action. Sadly, though, objects are connected to life - support networks. Gas, water, electricity, heat. And it works like a slow-acting mine. The members of the TSC have established that most illegally built objects have been put into service by court decisions. Moreover, individual judges have made decisions obliging the BTI to issue documents on property rights, including attention, colleagues, without entering into the register that these objects have not been accepted by the State Commission. Three of these documents I'm ready to show you. There is a decision by the court to force the inspection of the Statebudsman to issue a building permit, regardless of the violation of building regulations and regulations. But one judgment will enter history as unique in its insolence. Because when it came to disqualifying a lawbreaker, the decision of the Court of Justice of the Crimea was forbidden to deal with the issue. That is why members of the TSC question the responsibility of judges. With regard to the composition of the licensee’s commission of inspection of the holdingbudcontrol in Crimea, it should be noted that the order of the head of the inspection of Heron to be part of the commission introduces most persons who are directly interested in obtaining building permits for their firms. At the request of the commission of inquiry, the Ministry of Construction and Regional Development of Ukraine worked in Crimea for a competent commission of the Ministry, which resulted in the dismissal of Crimea Heron, the head of the Inspectorate. After examining the answers to requests and appeals, TSK members concluded that all of this had become possible because of the inaction of law enforcement and control authorities, as well as because the city authorities of Simferopol and, above all, the city’s head, Babenko, were openly ignoring existing legislation. This is particularly evident from the C.E.R.’s actions that have led to serious material damage. Thus, the city community of Simferopol has not received nearly 5,000 square feet [5,000 sq m] of housing for the free allocation of land to construction firms for more than 20 million dollars to provide housing for citizens in the general line of business, more than 5 million dollars to the Special Target Fund and 3 million dollars to develop the city’s infrastructure. The test materials were sent to the prosecutor’s office, which was to initiate a court-martial for damages to firms that did not comply with the terms of the contracts. But not only did the prosecution not do so, but it does not even agree to file any criminal case on the materials of the Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs in Crimea against officials who committed the crime. As a result of the TSC’s work, Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs in Crimea has violated 21 cases, but 23 materials against specific persons are not agreed by the prosecution. The Commission draws the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the fact that at each session of the Simferopol region without land auctions and competitions, there is a constant allocation of 3-5 hectares of land to individual firms in violation of the law and generally to those who do not systematically comply with the terms of the agreements. Even the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine is asking the Supreme Council to stop this land dump because, without the official agreement of the Minister of Defence, the land of the Ministry of Defence, on the sole basis of a list of military towns, whose land areas may be handed over by the ministers of the local self-government, by the state of the country, can be removed from the land on the basis of hundreds of millions of dollars and handed over free of charge, in prunes, in companies that have not made housing agreements for years, in the construction of kindergartens and so on, but are again and again receiving land. During the work of the commission, numerous calls were made and continued to be made by citizens who were unjustifiably denied land for housing construction. There are facts when, after obtaining a permit to collect materials and producing a project, the applicant receives an answer from the landowner that the closure of the area will be considered after the approval of the master plan for the construction of Simferopol. At the same time, it appears that this land area has already been handed over to other builders. Nothing else. Like bullying people and encouraging them to give bribes, and the Crimean Tatars to capture them, that's not what they call self-absorbing land. The lists of people in line for housing and land in Simferopol have not yet been issued by the commission in the course of the crime in the legal order. At the top of cynicism, insolence, and belief in impunity, the commission considers the fact that the miscreant deliberately provokes international and interfaith conflict. Having granted permission in the Summarian community of Sabur three years ago to collect materials and build a project for the construction of a mosque, it is that the Orthodox Church, the Miskrad, refuses to allocate land because it has already been handed over to other builders. The majority of the members of the commission feel that only the weighed position of the people’s deputy, Jemiliev, has not allowed an international conflict to arise in Crimea until that time. The country's honourable national deputies, the TSK, has studied and provided you with a report on the citizens' appeals that have also prompted the creation of the TSK. But there have been a number of new calls from citizens and organizations that the interim commission of inquiry still needs to be considered. Now, let's talk about the draft decision. Considering that a number of violations have been removed during the work of the interim commission of inquiry, we suggest that you accept the proposed project as a basis, and before the vote in general, please delete paragraph 4 that is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u64	the Ministry of Defence is proposing to transfer land from the land of the Ministry of Defence in Simferopol, which is not used by the Armed Forces, to state or municipal property. And the commission is also asking that paragraph 7 be deleted, which is proposed before the adoption of the Simferopol Master Plan for the Construction of the City of Simferopol, should not be granted to the City Budget of the City of Simferopol for social and economic development subsidies. So these are the two points we're proposing to delete. Everything else is to be voted on as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u65	Questions, please, to the reporter, are recorded. Tedev Elbrus Soslanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u66	Please pass the word to Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u67	Dear Vassili Aleksevich! Dear Alexander Vladimirovich! You know, there's a motive for revenge in your speech. When you were the secretary of a party organization with political influence in the Crimea, you were silent about these facts. You're the only one who's out of the Party of the Regions, and you're starting to get these issues out of the faction. That's the first part of the subjugation. Second part of the subversive. Please tell me why your commission doesn't say anything. You correctly evaluated the actions of the coalition minister of defense, who is unknown where he sold and how he sold military towns. Why don't you say you have two DOSAAFs in Crimea? Like, excuse me, Tatar, I don't have anything against this nationality, the other one Russian-Ukrainian. And that's where they share the airport. Your commission didn't say anything about that. And third. I think the Minister of Construction has given a good assessment of the facilities that are being built in Simferopol. These are two issues: two sub-questions and one question. Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u68	The question is, Valery Anatolyevich. To your attention, all citizens of Ukraine today. That's why I left the Party of the Regions and registered, and I raised, you know, the question from this rostrum in April this year, and I left the Party on 17 September, that you would know. That's why. And the Party of the Regions will cover itself with undaunted disgrace for the tributes it has placed there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u69	Arjev Volodymyr Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u70	Mr. Reporter, thank you for the meaningful report. I wanted to make it clear to you. You said there was an increase in criminal structures with law enforcement agencies. Could you elaborate a little bit on who these criminal structures are, who they are: is it, in fact, there, as they wrote, has political coloring, these criminal structures? I would still like to hear more about who these people are who are engaged in the illegal removal of the land of the city community of Simferopol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u71	Once again, I'm talking about what I've been told by not one other colleague in the rostrum: that crime has no color, no political or color, is a crime that is now out of control, which is handed over to power, and which is without what they say. They think they can do anything today. But there are people like me, and there are people like you who won't let us do this, because it's a crime against those people, against those people who are going to be getting a five-hundred-dollar plot to build a house today, and they're being told, "There's going to be a plan, then we're going to give you the land." “There will be,” he says, “someone on his paw, then we will give you the land under the mosque.” That's what they're reaching for. So to name specific names, I think the 9th of January commission has to finish its work and in the final report we'll answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u72	Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u73	Thank you very much. Dear colleague. Why “the colleague”? Because I run the same commission on Kiev. And what we found in Kiev, well, I can't understand, because if there was a death penalty, there could be punishment for tens of times, life's death penalty -- what's going on today. I believe that the facts that you discovered today, what we have discovered, we should hold an expanded College of Prosecutors by Parliament. Why are these matters not being brought to an end? Why are there no results? Why does he not respond to the rulings of the Supreme Council, not showing respect for all of us, fellow workers, together? And also because, well, we see these facts funny, for example, there's a "kievavokal" per hundred million buying nuts; in winter, for example, our mayor Kiev buys lawn mowers. I don't know what he's mowing, he's mowing. Well, quick help to access hard-to-reach areas. I believe that we should hold an expanded board of prosecutors by Parliament, the commission of inquiry, together with a professional committee. Why does the prosecutor’s office not respond to all these facts? Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u74	So I'll spend it first.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u75	Yes, please finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u76	There's no response, there's no write-off. So this needs to be raised to the level of the state that is now taking place in the capital cities of Kiev, in the city of Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u77	Thank you for asking. First of all, I will literally answer Ariev’s colleague. Not as a member of the commission, but as a member of the commission, he made a proposal for a criminal increase in power and so forth. Member of the Commission, Communist Babourin. And we unanimously voted in favour of this decree. Now, in answer to your question, Your Honor, Kirilo Kulikov. I didn't just register, register, pass, don't register. Draft decree on expression and mistrust of the Attorney General of Ukraine. I was just trying to figure out why they weren't sending me the answer they were supposed to send me on December 12. But they tell me I'm going to get an answer for 24. I say, read the Law on the Status of Deputies, read the Constitution, which clearly states what you should do. I think the DA's office is being used today as a tool to cover up crime in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u78	National MP Semerak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u79	Semerak Ostap, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders”. Dear reporter, as far as we know, decisions taken by the City Council are decisions made by a majority of the members of the City Council's MP Corps and the decision of the city's head, including. Please tell me what political party or party block are the majority of the city council, and who is responsible for these violations of the law that you reported as chairman of the commission. And the second part of the question. The things you say about the actions or, more specifically, the inaction or criminal activity of the prosecutor’s office in Crimea indicate that there is a serious link, a plot between the prosecutor’s office and the city council. Please tell us whether the commission examined the number of areas, perhaps the prosecutor’s office or the public prosecutor’s office, as well as the violations of legislation in the city council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u80	Thank you. First of all, colleagues. I'm sure it's a great deal of blame for what's going on in the city council today. Because if I was the head of a Crimean Party organization, I'd let some scumbags get into the council, and I could not let that happen if I knew a little better people. And today, I have the courage to admit it. I tried to talk to them, I tried to convince them, I tried to shame them. I've held two conferences, I've warned myself that I'm going to go to the rostrum, I'll tell people in Simferopol who you are, everyone's name. In each session, they receive these two, three parts of the earth upon themselves, on their children, on their fellow citizens, and do not be afraid of how the last day lives. So, the question of who got it from the D.A.'s office and others, we haven't investigated it yet, I think we'll see, we'll ask questions, and I told you about the City Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u81	Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u82	You know what party you're from.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u83	Dear Vassil Alexiyovich! We've listened very carefully to your report and I'd like to ask you the following, please tell me, and this whole period, while the commission was working, you've been calling the Attorney General's Office to the law enforcement authorities that you received, and in general, how the law enforcement system reacted, specifically this is the prosecutor's office and, including the general's, your signals about what's going on in the Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u84	One word with a note, and in recent times even the receipts have ceased to be sent. There's nothing to hide, there's nothing to answer specifically and not just answer, there's nothing to send, there's nothing to do. There is a specific crime, there are specific people, but everything is blocked and nothing can be achieved. The D.A.'s "crushing" this whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u85	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u86	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vassil Alexiyovich, I have this question for the second point. First of all, how serious is the evidence base on the increase of law enforcement agencies with criminal business representatives, for how much evidence, that's one thing. Secondly, this applies to all law enforcement agencies or any one of them, because I understand that law enforcement means the prosecution, the police, the Security Service, the representatives of the judiciary, and so on, that's all of that, or just one of these organs. And in general, I don't understand this point, because criminal business with law enforcement agencies is growing, so the Security Council has to look at conflicts and national and interfaith grounds. So something doesn't happen here, if it's growing, then we need to look at the activities of the law enforcement agencies in general and drive them all out, and the inter-conflict situation is something else for sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u87	Colleagues, he's running and I'm going to prove it now. First of all, the Crime Police have no connection to growing up with the criminal. All others, including individual judges, emphasize that individual judges have grown up with crime and are making the decisions that these people need. With regard to the second question, how did you say that it would be linked to an interfaith and interfaith? There's a direct addiction. The commission made this decision consciously because I cited examples of individual Ukrainian citizens, including Crimean Tatars, seeking land, being denied under various circumstances. This causes serious tension among people, and it can end badly. But what I did give you as an example of when they agreed to the mosque three years ago, they did a project, and when they came to get the land, they said, this land has already been allocated to another. That's where the threat is. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u88	Please sit down, Vasil Alexiyovich. Let's sign up for a discussion. Zarubinski, please, Oleg Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u89	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. I've only got two lines or two of my comments on the commission's report. First. We seem to have heard of the same disadvantages yesterday or the day before, in fact, crimes, what to say, what to do about land, land, citizens' deception, unequal conditions of land acquisition, corruption around land issues in Sevastopol. Today we hear the same thing in the city of Simferopol. I wanted to ask you, Vasil Alexiyovich, a question, but it'll be rhetorical because you didn't get to ask that question. What, islands on the Crimean Peninsula of Simferopol and Sevastopol? Or it's just a general practice for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in the right way in those people who have authority, as we see illegal powers, to do such things, shameful things. It seems to me that this question is really much broader and we need to consider issues throughout the whole territory, as a minimum, across the whole territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. That's the first remark. And the second observation, perhaps a certain answer, was that a colleague of Kirilo Kulikov asked such a question that the prosecution did not notice why she did not respond? And that's why, dear colleague, she's not responding because the prosecution's office is "in the valley" and because it's the prosecutor's office at the district level, and now we're not talking about Kiev anymore, there's a lot of information going on about the central prosecutor's office, because when someone's talking about illegal activity in a particular area, such as small businesses, or other businesses, it's going to come to the point that they're taking land in Ukraine illegally and they're building a trading center there, they're building some object in the public domain, so to say food, the prosecutor's office answers a lot, and that's why it's not legal. Then when they start digging this, it turns out that the person who responded to the level, for example the first deputy district attorney, is himself “in the fate”, not a personalized business, as you understand. So I think this question is completely rhetorical. Once again, I want to confirm what the chairman of the commission said. The D.A.'s not just covering these facts, she's one of the organizers. Because she is directly, pragmatically, mercantilely, materially interested in these violations. Because they're making a profit out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u90	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, I am about to begin with what our colleague, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky, has stopped at. Not just the D.A.'s office, but maybe not as much as the D.A.'s office, because she doesn't have a search warrant as much as the police do. Yeah, yeah. You can see how they react. Moskal conducted a very successful operational combination. He recruited an agent. I'm not gonna tell you who this agent is. And the agent started working with Moskal. Moskal, by the way, is now serving as minister. Because Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, whom we could not hear here, went on vacation. Because he no longer views himself as a minister, but as a politician. And his duties are performed by the deputy, the head of Crimea Glaucus, General Moskal. By the way, it's blasphemy. You know, when the Ministry of Internal Affairs is brought before the court, signed by Minister Lucenko, he's not the head of Glaucoma, he's supposed to be the national deputy. And that's why we don't have a judicial perspective. A person who has been illegally released cannot be reinstated as Crimea’s chief police officer. And with respect to Vasil Alexiyovich, while I still respect him. You know, Vasil Alexiyovich, you, as an "unterpristebeev widow of your own," have cut yourself out, experienced the highest stage of recognition - catharsis. That's how you answered. With you when you were the head of the Crimean Party Organization. Do you understand? These facilities were not built in one day. Did they build at your place? With you. The people you have delegated to the legislative, executive power are your people. All your people. They're not my people, they're not his, they're all your people. These are all your people. See, you're right, you admit. You admit it. And then what happened? Somewhere you don't seem to have shared the business. Because, you know, politics should be separate from business. I've asked you many times to restore the honest party of Ivan Dubrovin to the Libyan Party Organization. You didn't restore it. And now reap, please, the fruits which you have grown there. Thank you for your attention, Vassili Aleksevich. Dear colleagues, I consider this commission purely political and we must not vote in favour of this draft regulation at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u92	Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for being able to speak. I can't, honestly, understand what political theft is? Why did we call the word stealing very beautiful corruption? That's a beautiful word for corruption. So always in Russian Truth, a thief is the one who stole from the budget. Today, the Simferopol story is about Simferopol, and the same thing is happening in Kiev. It's just a tragedy. Tragedy is happening today. The cultural, religious, historical capital of Ukraine is being destroyed. That's why I have no words. And we sit and we endure. Maybe it'll work itself out. When I presented my report to the interim investigative commission, I said that my colleague Kiseljev, Kiev, was a technogen bomb and sooner or later it would collapse. I'm afraid to say this, but please, let's make a decision, regardless of the party colors, the flags, Kiev will live after us when there's no sign. But today we destroy it, we destroy the Crimea. And I am particularly addressing the Party of the Regions. [[Because I have to turn to you, I'm a member of the coalition.]] It is your faction in Kiev that votes in favour of all decisions made by Chernovetski, on the land parcel, on the theft, on the theft of the budget and so on and so forth. If you have a position, show it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u94	Stonewall Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u95	Dear voters, Kamchatno Valerius, Timoshenko Street, Kharkiv Region. You know, I want to remind you that the main task of political parties, as set out in the Political Parties Act, is to fight for power and to further implement its programmes. So I want to remind you of this and I want to say that you and I are now witnessing how the party program of one of the parties that has a particular white and blue color in a particular region of Crimea. On the second day, I fight and raise questions and ask questions about what is going on in Crimea, in Glycine, today in Simferopol, and so on and so forth. In Libya, thank you. The point is that today at the local elections in Crimea, a particular political power has won, and today it creates these all, I'm sorry, I won't even pick out what shameful things are. And that's why today we have to talk about the responsibility of political parties themselves. And it's their representatives who let these things go. I think the time of truth will come. The prosecutor’s office, mentioned today, will take care of all who need to be sent where they need to be, put where they need to be. And I think that today we should express our deep gratitude to a decent man, Acid Vassil Alexiyovich, who, despite being pressed and intimidated, today has decided to speak the word of truth before the Supreme Council. These are the real national deputies of Ukraine today. And so I urge you to support the decisions that the commission of inquiry has offered to continue your work, and not only in Simferopol. In Glycine and in all the messes that are taking place in Crimea today. And I call on the voters, be vigilant when you vote. Because one of your representatives is in power and wants to be president of Ukraine. If you wish that apart from the mansion built in the Nikita Botanical Garden, its mansions would be built all over Ukraine, in every area, in every area, in every area, - vote for it. If you don't want to, think about it. Be vigilant.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u96	Bobil's Alexander Fadiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u97	Alexander Bobylev, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" faction, People's Self-Defense. Dear colleagues! Well, I won't be wasting your time and your attention. I would like to remind my colleagues who have not worked in the organs for a long time, but who are more present here in the Supreme Council, that only the prosecutor concerned, or the city or the area, can challenge and protest the decision taken at any level. Land issues are generally matters of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The police can only provide the materials collected during the preliminary review. But that's not what I'd like to say. We all get the answers from the DA's office very often. They are generally: denied under article 6 of paragraph 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Well, that's good, who knows what article 6 is, what the second chapter is. And it all comes to us in good faith, such answers. The Crimea prosecutor’s office has also had to face many times. And the answers that come: they will be sent further. And more than that, as we've forgotten, to this day. That's what I have to offer. On such matters, we must invite the Attorney General, the prosecutor of the area in question, to report on what they are doing. Because, excuse me, if we do not respect ourselves, please, of course we can continue to have such an attitude toward us without any problems. We're not going to demand it, it's going to be a constant attitude. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u98	Trophimen Vadim the All-lord, please. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u99	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national MPs, our constituents! I would like us to now continue the list that our colleague Zarubinski spoke of. Sevastopol didn't vote yesterday. Good report. For political reasons, we here, MPs, did not act on our conscience. That's what we have to go back to. Today, with the political motivations of 19 companies that are owned, because the Hersonian Combine 19 companies are actually not voted on. That's how we say: steal, steal! If any political power is involved, it will not vote. We can't do that! We can't do that! Next. Kyiv area today Not the same in the region? Wasn't that the same thing in Kiev? Same thing. There are no white and puffy law enforcement agencies in Crimea, no. And the point that's written here is that point that's written by the police, I'll read it to you if you want to know. “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Crimea and the Prosecutor’s Office is delaying its examination and referral to the Court of Justice of material on criminal matters violated by the facts of the issuance of falsified permits for the construction and seizure of land.” That's what they're doing. That's why there's no whites or puffs there, I repeat. But what do we see from the judicial authorities? We see that there are decisions that even the price is determined for which to sell the land and where to give it. There's no judicial inspection, and there's got to be one. I'm turning on the TV. Our channel “The Council” shows the interpretation of the head of the Court of Appeal by Borrodin Kharkovsky. The Kharkiv region. That's where a sauna is done in court instead of a courtroom! There's a gym going on and on. And he's going to tell us about some kind of legality! Through the Parliamentary Channel of the Council! And we're putting up with it all. We say why. So he says he's the best man of Onopenko, and that's why we put up with it. You can't stand it! Now you and I are getting an answer from the High Council of Justice about what? about that. That Demchenka should be retired. A project registered a year and a half ago by national deputy Soboljev and a number of individuals. There's a committee decision. We've already got Project 8 here, it's already here, in the Supreme Council. We don't bring him here because we still need him to steer a little bit. So let's have the same approach. I would ask you to support this report, to vote for it, to return to Sevastopol, to return to the Hersonian factory, to unlock these, and then to the presidential election to put them all down.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u100	The discussion is over. I am voting on the basis of the draft Ordinance on the report of the Interim Investigative Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the arbitrary capture of land, the illegal construction in Simferopol of living, office and entertainment centres, and the inaction of law enforcement agencies. [[Registration number 5309]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:40:56]] For 229 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” – 141, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 47, Communists – 27, “Club of Lithuania” – 12, non-fractional – 2. Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I will make two proposals concerning paragraphs five and six. Because they go beyond the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where it is about asking the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for clarification to the courts. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no such authority in the Head of the Supreme Court and there is no such authority in the Supreme Council as a whole. A report. [[B in m in s a l in]] The reporter agrees. And also the sixth paragraph: “To apply to qualified committees on the attraction to disciplinary responsibility”. This is also not in line with the authority of the Supreme Council and the Qualifying Commissions Act, which may be referred to by the Ukrainian National Deputy. Roger that. Please, what are some other suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u101	Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, please. Oh, Basil Alexiyovich on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u102	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, one small trailer. Political representatives here spoke and said that there was no need to divide and vote. Regrettably, today’s voter for the commission and the Simferopol case did not vote in favour of the similar situation in Sevastopol. I'm so sorry. We had to vote for Sevastopol last night. As far as I'm concerned. And your faction? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, okay. On the 7th. A colleague of acid spoke, and I think it's quite right. We're sorry, we'd have gone any further, because of the lack of the Simferopol Master Plan to make an offer not to give the city budget Simferopol subsidies for socio-economic development. Why the citizens of Simferopol to the foolish authority of Simferopol? They have absolutely nothing to do with it. So I'd like to take this off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u103	Please, dear fellows. Calm down, take your seats. And even that MP who's holding his hand high because he's still going to get the replica, but when the proposals are done. Please make suggestions. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u104	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin. I would also like to propose to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for execution. No, we're not listening to the President. I'm sorry, don't interrupt. To hear the Attorney General, Head of the Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the investigation of the facts announced in the decision. in the report of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the question. Thank you. That's right. And assign this hearing for January for one of the first sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u105	Can I have more suggestions, please? Please, National Deputy Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u106	For now, the reverend Vassil Alexiyovich! I made an offer, you saw a faction of the Party of the Regions, I abstained, but I will vote in favour of your decision if you add such a point: include the distribution that was in Glycinia, and the distribution that is in Libya. But with your experience, in view of the fact that all of these were distributed under your control, we would also listen to our colleague, because he was then the prosecutor of ARC Crime, the distinguished Mr. Shemchuk. And it was under his supervision that the prosecutor's supervision, according to the Procurator's Act, did not make these protests, as Mr. Bobilov, who was the leader of the militia, said correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u107	The motions for a ruling are over, right? Dear colleagues, please, Vasil Alexiyovich, after all the points of the decrees offered by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Your position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, when I reported to the commission, I asked the commission to delete paragraph four of the item that we had proposed to the Ministry of Defence to transfer these lands to the City Council, and we ask that this item be deleted first. Second, that point.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u109	Vasil Alexiyovich, just a minute. So the proposal from the commission, proposed by Vasil Alexiyovich, is to delete item number four. Is there a objection to that? Please, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, there is a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have adopted a draft ruling with you on the basis of which we voted in favour of all the points that are in the draft decree. So every proposal here was made by a colleague of Kiselov, and the chairman offered some suggestions. Each proposal should unfortunately be voted on. So each paragraph, including the fourth, has to be voted on. I don't know how they came to understand with the Ministry of Defense that it's already given up the land, I doubt it's given up. I'm going to leave this point, for example. But we have to vote on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u111	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, I have asked the question, if there is a consensus and no MP objects, then there is no point in voting. If there is a objection, I am voting in favour of paragraph four, paragraph four of the draft regulation. I'd like to make a statement. Support for paragraph four.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u112	‘For’. Exclusion. [[17:47:40]] For 284 Roger that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u113	Now you can say.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u114	Next, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u115	So, it's the respectable colleagues. First of all, Adam Ivanovich, I emphasize that the commission made a decision on the Ministry of Defence just so that those lands would remain in the Ministry and no one would make a deal with anyone. These are the lands that are going to be in the Mini-Defense, so we did it right. The second question. We ask you to rule out the seventh paragraph, which you have also supported, that we have no reason to believe that disgruntled officials in the land will suffer the entire community. We ask you to delete paragraph seven of this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u116	Vasil Alexiyovich, in the fifth paragraph, please state yourself, the microphone is now available.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u117	I'm saying to the microphone that the commission accepts Alexander Volodymyrovich's remarks. From the commission, we will personally address the Head of the Supreme Court and the High Council of Justice and the Qualify Commission. And the sixth and the fifth paragraphs are going to do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a hand. Objection? Although these are things that are recorded in the Constitution and in the laws on the judiciary, on the status of judges, and on qualifications. Please, if there is a objection, I am voting on the proposal to delete the fifth and sixth paragraphs of the draft decision. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:49:23]] For 277 Points are deleted. Please, paragraph seven. The rapporteur's proposal is to delete.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u119	Remove it, delete it!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u120	Vasil Alekseiovich Kiselov proposes to delete it. I'm betting on a vote to propose to the chairman of the commission that paragraph seven be deleted from the draft order. [[17:49:58]] For 318 Delete item. We're all points. Oh, no? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u121	So there was a proposal from a colleague of Bond, who raises his hand. I answer, Your Honor Valery Anatolyyevich, the point is that the limits of commission authority are clearly defined. That's why I'd like the commission to consider both Glycinia and other issues. If there is such an assignment, please do not deny it. But for the tasks that the commission has today, we have no right to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u122	Yes, my fellow Members, and also, I'm sorry, we have a proposal from Deputy Carmazin, a separate paragraph in the draft decree to provide information from the Attorney-General, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs on the materials provided by the interim commission of inquiry. This is a proposal I'm putting to the vote. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u123	Support me. [[17:51:22]] For 304 Roger that. I'm betting on voting in general, are there any other proposals? Please, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, I suppose it makes sense if we took the 5th and 6th in connection with the fact that we're not addressing the head of the court with proposals. I'm just wondering, can we ask the Attorney General to release the prosecutor? Do we have that right? If we have, I am "for" to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I bet. Well, this authority in the Constitution is written down. We have to read, dear fellows. I am betting on the vote in general, taking into account the proposed changes to the proposed proposal for the deletion of individual items and the inclusion of an additional item, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the circumstances of the arbitrary seizure of land, the illegal construction in the city of Simferopol of housing, office and entertainment centres, and the inaction of law enforcement authorities. [[Registration number 5309]] I'd like to make a statement. [[17:52:50]] For 241 Decision taken. Actor's been approved. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 142, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 51, communists – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 19, non-fractional - 2. The replica. People's deputy Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u126	Kamchatya, Yulia Timoshenko, Kharkiv district. But the area where July Timoshenko scores from election to election increases, from 2 percent to 12, to 16 percent, will continue to be even higher. Because when we look at all the mess that's going on in other regions. And thanks to Adam Ivanovich for asking about me, I want to remind you to open a transcript of yesterday's session. I voted in favour. I told Verni Dubov, I shook his hand and I shook his hand. And today I stand for what our leader stands for: the allocation of land ownership solely on auctions, on a competitive basis. And today you and I have also witnessed what is happening in a region that is controlled by white and blue. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u127	On the basis of the vote, please give Valery Anatolyevich Bondik. I've changed my mind. Question completed. Dear colleagues. Do we have so many who want to be motivated? Please sign up. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u128	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, the motives were clear. I think it's for everyone who voted one way or another. I just want to add that this is obviously the right step of the Supreme Council. Because no matter what kind of variety or thongs the corruptionists and violators and land, and generally Ukrainian legislation, they need to know that there is an authority in Ukraine, a higher body of representative power, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will not close its eyes on the violation, the obvious violations that concern citizens and the victims of which are just ordinary citizens. I think that the practice of such commissions in various regions of Ukraine will continue. And then Parliament will perform, among other missions, a very important control mission, a monitoring function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u129	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u130	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I thank you for voting. We have shown ourselves to be, indeed, a solid organ, but we will not be, unless we ask the first question of 2605 tomorrow, registered on June 5, 2008 – the proposal for the release of Demchenko Sergey Fedorovich from office of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine in connection with the achievement of 65 years. [[Sobolev, Philenko, Schustik, Sanchenko, Player, Carmazin, Oily]] There is already an answer from the High Council of Justice, which writes to the Supreme Council that the application for exemption. One. The other one. We have to clean up before Santa's day and go back to the vote on the "Herson harvesters" and on the Sebastopol Commission. It may even be in the complex to vote in favour of the conclusions by one vote in order to avoid the accusations of one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u131	Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, you know, I was forced to take the floor by the last of our colleagues from the U.K.U.T. This is what he said, this is the duality of this faction, when one speaks and only one vote, so that people will hear what they would do, and then the whole faction won't give a single vote. Therefore, before we do that, we need to think that you are simply misleading the entire population of our State by doing so. Not only on the matter that you have considered, but on all the actions that you are doing, ranging from the Prime Minister and ending up with the deputies in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u133	Kosov Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u134	Kosov Mikhailo, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, “Reforms and Orders” party. I want to thank you, Vasil Alexiyovich, for your professional, thorough and basic report. I didn't make it. I did not have to ask you a question and a proposal, but the text we adopted means that there is the word “voluntary admiration”. And all that Vassil Alexiyovich was talking about is not a willful fascination, it's a criminal fascination. So if you are. Because it's clear. A clear rise in both local authorities and law enforcement authorities, so if you're going to prepare a final report on this issue, I would still think that we should adequately reflect on this document what's going on. Not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u135	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, I think we've all learned today how painful the issue of land allocation is. This is not only for Simferopol – it is characteristic of the whole of Ukraine. And I think that in order of the day's work, we, the deputies of the Supreme Council, should be able to ask this question with scrutiny of all aspects of the illegal allocation of areas under construction in all regions of Ukraine, and especially the transfer of land to the military. I'm giving you an example. Volyn, Kiverzi Reycenter. For 5 years, people don't get land under construction. There's no state building, there's no place to get apartments. And in the center of 50 hectares, there's an old military town that hasn't been used in decades, and there's no one who pays big money because it's a separate game.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-12-17-m1.u137	I declare the evening plenary session closed. The morning plenary meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m.
