ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:54]] [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] Cards were registered in the 397 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of our colleague Fedorchuk Jaroslav Petrovich. Let us welcome him and wish him every success. [[Applause]] I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on October 21st. 22 questions of the agenda were considered: four laws and three decrees were passed, five bills were adopted on a basis, six bills and three draft decrees were rejected, and one law was intended to be drafted into the Main Committee as a result of a review of the President’s proposals. Dear colleagues, you have a schedule for our work for today. [[One minute]] It is proposed, please note, that five committees have requested written consideration of the following documents: the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the fight against the spread of child pornography, as well as the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres, Artek and Youth Guards. [[So essentially, this is the decision of the Conciliation Board.]] Keep working on the schedule that we have set. In addition, respectable colleagues are offered an offer in connection with the Constitutional Court’s decision to review the Law on Amendments to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. If you agree, you could consider this issue at 16 hours, adopt the bill as a basis, so that the Main Committee could, by a reduced procedure, amend the law. Next, dear colleagues, we need, and I would like to ask your support today, after considering the two bills that I have discussed, to consider the draft Act amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. It is the right of farmers to implement their products, milk and meat, in markets, since we will put them in an extremely difficult position from January 1, 2010. We should adopt it now, because the procedure for considering and signing this law will be ongoing by the President of Ukraine. So, given these suggestions, honourable colleagues, I ask the factions to express their thoughts on how to organize our work. [[One minute! One minute!]] Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Without a doubt, all the suggestions that have been made deserve support, and I do not see any objections, warnings. They're all very relevant. And since we're on this path, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm asking and calling you, and I'm addressing my colleagues. The bill now registers for us to review the Act on the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council at 4 p.m. The point is that, you know, the case is now in the Constitutional Court, which is meant to repeal our law, which we have established that the organization of the work and activities of the Supreme Council is carried out on the basis of the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. I'd like my colleagues to support us so that we can adopt this bill at 4:00. He was unanimously supported on the profile committee yesterday, and now he's going to register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u3	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov Will it be from the faction, your esteemed colleagues? From the faction of the Party of Regions, will anyone be speaking? Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we support the proposal to consider the two laws on the agenda or draft laws on child pornography. True, an adult should be included here, given the events that are taking place in our Hall. And the second question is, on the financing of Arteka, the Young Guard. Perhaps it is logical to consider the issue that you are saying: trade in farmers in the markets, because it will stop as of 1 January. And we would like to support the same proposal by Adam Ivanovich regarding the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Organization and Order of Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was considered yesterday at a meeting of the Committee and found full support. And it seems to us that it is timely to consider it today so that we do not be surprised by the Constitutional Court's work on the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u5	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u6	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I think it's perfectly normal practice, and it's the introduction of the Supreme Council, the Parliament into the legislative work, when it's just the representatives of the committees, the heads of the committees that are proposing for the first time adoption, the consideration of a bill or a bill. If this is done by consensus on the side of the five committees, I think the Supreme Council should react to it, so should it. Because the main place for the legislative work is that of a professional committee, or a Main Committee, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So in supporting my colleagues, I think we need to consider these two bills. And besides, I think that what Adam Ivanovich suggested should be considered not at 16 o'clock -- it's about the Supreme Council's Organization of Work Act -- as soon as possible, because that's what defines our activities, and that's what might be a hindrance to the various manipulations of trying to discredit the Supreme Council of Ukraine once again from other branches of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u7	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We support the suggestions made in the Hall, including by the Head of the Supreme Council. In particular, we stress the need to consider today a government bill that deals with the quality and safety of food. Surely, I think, in the first and second readings, because there are five - year changes to the law’s implementation, its standards. Vladimir Mikhajlovich, taking into account such a busy agenda, we propose a number of bills to consider the reduced procedure and to put the issue to the vote. The third question we're proposing. We have a colleague, Tishchenko, who took an oath a few months ago, now out of work. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we ask for a decision, he will work for the Committee of Industrial Politics, and vote for him to be with the job. Our colleague Tishchenko, Oleg Tishchenko. Please vote, there are no contradictions. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we also have a proposal: a number of bills, amendments to the Constitution, an additional consultation with faction leaders at 12 o'clock to put them to the vote and have a proper vote in the room. I mean, put them to the vote in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u9	Give me a chance to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u10	Vladimir Mikhailovich, constitutional laws, several of them, is included in the order of the day. Please assemble us at 12 o'clock to vote properly in favour of these laws. After 12 hours, we put them to a vote. For inclusion in the agenda. These are our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u11	Thank you. And "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense," Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction does not deny the three proposals actually made, namely: the inclusion in the agenda of the day with the adoption of the decisions of these two bills, which are insisted on by the five heads of the professional committees; and, of course, we understand that the Act "On the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" should be adopted, that is, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk's proposal. The only thing I would ask is that this law would, of course, be passed out as quickly as possible in the session hall, so that MPs would have the opportunity to get to know the content of the project itself, and so that they could also make a more responsible decision. But it is clear that we would have at least adopted a new law on the first reading today in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, and, by the way, with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. I know that this project is being prepared, or at least projects are being prepared, but we haven't seen them yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u13	Roman Mikhailovich, you have it or not.? Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u14	It would be good for the deputies to receive these projects so that we can make a responsible decision again. I'd like to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give an appropriate commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let me generalize the proposals made by factions. First. We will now begin to consider laws that deal with the resistance to the spread of child pornography. The other one. Support for the functioning of the Artek and Young Guard Children's Centres. The third issue is the amendment to the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. The fourth question is a draft decision to appoint a new member of the committee, Oleg Tishchenka. After that, dear colleagues, we will work on other issues that are set out in the schedule. And at 12 o'clock, let's hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council, set out the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inclusion in the agenda and referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a number of laws relating to the amendment of the Constitution. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u16	At 4 p.m., honourable colleagues, it is proposed that when the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine is passed, and there will be no objection by factions, we will consider this law to adopt it as a basis for finalizing the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. And at 4 p.m., when we get a decision from our Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, we will consider a bill on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there no objection to this procedure of our work and the order of our work? I just want to say that the proposals for us to now consider the two primary laws came from five factions — the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I have an offer, please! Since we need to consider some 90 questions today, I propose that the Supreme Council work once before the issue is resolved. And the second sentence is to consider them as a reduced procedure, because everyone understands. The first proposal is to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the schedule for Thursday, October 22. Please vote. [[10:15:30.]] For 186 The decision is not supported. I'm voting on a motion to review the bills for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:15:51]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I have just been informed from the secretariat that the draft law amending the President's Election Act was handed over to the deputies in the morning during the registration. Dear colleagues, please look in the middle of your papers. A draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[against the spread of child pornography]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Paul Unguryan. The focal point is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Moysik. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head, the honourable voters! Paul Unguryan, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. That bill that we are considering is very, very important to our country. [[3271]] Unfortunately, in the last few years, Ukraine has become one of the leaders of manufacturing and distributing such a shameful product as child pornography. It is estimated that all the world’s experts this year have entered the three producers and distributors of this disgraceful phenomenon and disgraceful product. Why is this happening? Because today, in fact, domestic legislation does not regulate the concept at all, the concept of “child pornography” is not defined. Therefore, the bill, co-authored by all five members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's five deputies, is proposed: First. To define in legislation, in the Ukrainian Law “On the Protection of Social Morality” the definition of “child pornography” or “products produced by the child”. To introduce this concept so that crime experts can identify this product as such; Secondly, it is very important for us to make changes to the Telecommunications Act in Ukraine. Because today child pornography as a shameful phenomenon is moving through the Internet. And it is the imposition of severe sanctions against Internet providers that do not exclude illegal content that should become the norm of this law. With the motivation of the law enforcement agencies, Internet providers will be forced to turn off the disgraceful content that brings this disgraceful phenomenon to Ukraine; Third. We have to take very hard responsibility in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Article 301 is proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u18	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u19	Article 301 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code proposes to amend the penalties for the production and distribution of child pornography to 10 years, not to 3, as is the case with the Criminal Code today. The bill is supported by the Professional Committee on Law Enforcement, supported by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Security and Defence Council. The principal scientific administration believes that he is ready for and needs to be supported for the first time. And one more request. Dear colleagues, in order for us to consider it for the second reading, on an accelerated procedure, on a reduced procedure for seven days, to consider it, to prepare it for second reading, and in the next plenary week, we have adopted the law as a whole, because Ukraine needs it very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u20	Thank you. Vladimir Romanovich Moysik, head of the subcommittee. May I have the committee's decision, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u21	Vladimir Moisik, MP “For Ukraine!” Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee considered the bill. It is designed to counteract the distribution of pornographic products produced by a child or through the use of his image and the provision of legal principles to bring responsibility for violations of Ukrainian society's moral laws. Dear colleagues! The author detailed the bill's position, and the committee supports it on the basis, and likewise supports the author's initiative to give short notice up to seven days to make comments to the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the discussion: two in, two in the opposite. It's a recording. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. National MP Pavlovsky, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u23	Andrey Pavlowski, "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". Dear colleagues! The Yulia Timoshenko Block supports the bill. We suggest that we accept it as a basis and also support the initiative by means of a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u24	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u25	Vladimir Karpuk, MP “For Ukraine!” The parliamentary group “For Ukraine!” and the faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” supports the adoption of this bill, I would not consider it too important or to call it an epithet. It is really necessary for our nation and it is a strengthening of responsibility. And opposition to the spread of child pornography in Ukraine, all of this had to be done earlier, and it is timely. And that's why we're voting for this bill. And I also support the proposal to consider this bill as a simplified procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u26	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Without a doubt, this bill should be adopted and prepared for the second reading. But why did I ask for the word? We're dealing with such a legal coalition right now. Let me remind you that on June 6, June 9, 2009, we passed Bill 1340 on the first reading. However, he foresees an increase in criminal responsibility for similar activities. Why should this bill be adopted by the military of 1340 and the bill that the group of coauthors reported to the distinguished colleagues of the Hungarians? Because they actually complement each other. And this, I think, we can give a protocol commission, I ask you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to bring these two bills together, and we should be able to adopt a bill in the session room in a consolidated manner. The point is that we must create an environment of intolerance and hostility in society. Because if in places where people are deprived of their will, they are surrounded by condemnation and anger, with all kinds of unpleasant things, we are still looking at this through our fingers in our society. So the gay parade goes around the city -- we say it's their business, it's some kind of miracle. Dear colleagues, either we realize our responsibility to our children for their future, or we face a very bitter future. That's why this bill, which was introduced at the time, which reinforces criminal responsibility for such acts, and this bill, which is reported by a colleague of Ungurians, should be drafted only, processed, completed, polished so that there is no veto then, and voted in the session room at least 420 votes. [[No. 1340]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Help, National Deputy Yuri Karmazin. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u29	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Ladies and gentlemen, the National Deputy Suhi, who has just spoken, is right. But you can't really go after the recipe he's offering. The point is that the Law on Telecommunications needs to be amended to protect social morality. And as for the Criminal Code, that bill that we passed with you on June 9, 2009, on the first reading that has already been processed, is to be adopted immediately. From this bill, the Criminal Code needs to be removed and everything else adopted. Then we're going to do what we wanted to do, what we're going to do. Because in a criminal code, it's different things, you know, we're in contact right now. It's like more laws of good and different. We need to pass the law. I'm in. But that law, 1340, needs to be put into the hall immediately, we'll accept it in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. Proposal: To accept, put to the vote on acceptance as a basis and with the appropriate commission of the Main Committee to reconcile the bill today, namely, 3271 with Bill 1340. If necessary, pass them on to the second reading immediately to both. Well, I'm telling you, prepare for the second reading and 1340 for the second reading, and submit it at the same time. Is there no objection? I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis for the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[against the spread of child pornography]] [[Registration number 3271]] Please vote. [[10:26:44]] For 404 Decision taken. I'm voting on a proposal to have the committee prepare him for a second reading on a reduced procedure, i.e. seven days. Please, and at the same time, submit Bill 1340. Please vote. [[10:27:17]] For 304 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and Features for the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guards" is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Paul Kostenko, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u31	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Act "On State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guards". These changes are proposed to be made to the first part of Article 1 of this Law. It is proposed that it be legislative to determine that Artek and Young Guards are state-owned enterprises that relate to the administration of the central executive authority, which is the subject of the organization of the health and rest of children of Ukraine. This regulation, according to members of the committee, is correct and in no way contravenes the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but only protects the rights of children to a competent and highly professional organization for their recovery in these children's centres. Nor does this amendment violate the statutory right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which it is the central authorities of the executive branch that are empowered to manage these children’s centres. And once again, I would like to emphasize the importance of the legislative definition that this should be the central authority of the executive authority responsible for organizing the healing and rest of children in Ukraine. During the consideration of the bill, members of the committee noted that the need for its adoption was due to the fact that the draft regulation had not been implemented for six months, the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on urgent measures for State-owned enterprise support by the International Children's Centre “Artek” and “Young Guards”. The committee therefore requests support for its decision to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? You don't? Nobody insists? No, it's not. Are you insisting? Please sign up. On the board the name of the national MPs please take out. Katerina Lukjanova, please microphone, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u33	Katerina Lukyanova, “National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! In March-month this year, the Supreme Council decided to transfer Arteca and the Young Guard to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A six - year - long U.S.S. State under closed doors does not comply with the decree. So I ask everyone who cares about the life of children at all, the health of children, everything that happens to our children in all the children's camps, in all the children's institutions, to vote in favour of the bill, and to leave all the discussions about who, like, where, earth, not land, money, not money, to pass on to the Cabinet of Ministers, where the positions will be transparently established, where all the office salaries will be transparently set, where all the travel prices will be transparently set. Today, the price of travel to Artek will be 4-5 thousand dollars, and it will cost 14. I think we should put an end to this once and for all. I ask you to vote in favour of this bill and I ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u34	Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u35	Thank you. It's not a land issue at all, of course, we've decided this issue long ago in law with you and, thank God, we've decided all the scandals. It's a question of changing subordination, because you know that there was a moment when the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and not only it, took away everything that was and gave away to President Kuchma's Administration. But you and I remember how the Dusia, who is successfully managed by Artek, manages Artek and the Young Guard. We remember that no change in the budget request for the current year has been made, nor has it been provided for the purchase of travel, nor for the capital repairs, nor for the upgrading of the Artek Technical Park. And it was the Supreme Council of Ukraine, working with the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and the Ministry of Justice, that we did everything we could to open up funding. It was the Supreme Council that came together to resolve the issue. I don't understand why the House of Commerce of the President's Secretariat should be involved in a educational institution that has a world-renowned reputation. And that's why I'm also asking you all to support the changes to the first article of the law that was called, and yet there is something to govern: multiple residences, supporting farms, airplanes, cars, and so forth. And I'm proposing to adopt the law in the first reading and finally, because there's a change in order. I don't think we should move on to second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis and as a whole. I'm going to put the adoption vote on the ground right now. A committee proposal is put to the vote on the adoption of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres, Artek and Youth Guards. [[Registration number 4634]] Please vote. [[10:33:55]] For 363 We adopted the law as a basis. Dear colleagues, there was an offer to accept in general. Is there a denial? You don't? None. I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to adopt the entire draft Ukrainian Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guard". [[Registration number 4634]] [[10:34:39]] For 367 The law is passed. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u37	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Yuri Carmazin. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak. The thing is, we've done a good job right now, but there's one question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. As early as January this year, I asked a question, registered a decree on the Glycinia boarding house, which today seems to refer to "Artec", although it is 40 kilometers away and so on, nobody cares. Although this is the former House of Breženeva and then the “Veteran” boarding house. It's actually over 20 hectares there, which is the acquisition of the Ukrainian people, who now want to adopt Russian business structures through the secretariat, through the DUSU. So I ask you to give a protocol commission so that we can resolve this issue, which was registered back in January 2009, by Vladimir Mikhajlovich. And this has something to do with Artek's property, because it will now slip between the fingers when we hand over this property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at 12 o'clock we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council. I ask the faction leaders to meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. We will discuss the question that had just been raised by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Is there no objection? And then let's figure out when we make the right decision. You can hear the offer very much. In view of this, I propose that we discuss this at 12 o'clock. And the Secretariat will prepare the relevant documents. Dear colleagues, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I have announced that Tishchenko after consideration. And we agreed with you. We're looking at this law -- and then we're asking Tishchenka a question. We got it! That's what I said. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[on the right of farmers to implement their own agricultural products]] Registration numbers: 5053, 5053-1, 5053-2, 5053-3. Rapporteurs: National Deputy of Ukraine Bogoslovska Inna Hermanovna, National Deputy of Ukraine Jury Nikola Volodymyrovich, Head of State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna and National Deputy of Ukraine Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. Corge Victor Petrovich, head of the Health Committee. Yes, is there an Inna Hermanovna? None. Jury of Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Since January 1, 2010, the Ukrainian Law on the Safety and Quality of Foods, which will prohibit the implementation and circulation of unprocessed milk and cheese from domestic production, as well as carcases or parts of carcases of steamed and other hoofed yard slaughter in agro-food markets, have become effective. It will also be prohibited to kill evenlings and other hooves, as well as to kill domestic birds and rabbits in amounts that exceed five heads, not in battle, but in the courtyard. Exclusion of legislation into the relevant law was also provided for by European standards, and preparations for the country’s accession to the World Trade Organization. But for five years, virtually nothing has been done in this direction. And if we don't make a change, now we're going to have the peasants have to send large cattle to the carnivores from the beginning of 2010 and then lead to the implementation. But we should remember clearly that 78 percent of the country’s total livestock is in the private sector, and 80 percent of the milk is in the private sector. If we do not remove this limit and extend the deadline for another five years and do not oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to work out a program to support the development of sanitation and killing sites, we will have a major problem with the implementation of milk, meat from private agriculture. The bill proposes to extend the term further to.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u40	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u41	and commit the Cabinet of Ministers to work on the State Support Programme. [[on the development of killing sites and the processing of milk in responsible standards and in accordance with standards]] There is a proposal to support the bill as a basis and to support it as a whole. The Agrarian Committee and the Health Committee have supported our proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u42	Thank you. Please sit, Mikolo Volodymyrovich. Now to Bill 5053, the authors: Hare, Costenko, Jojik, Davidenko. The reporter is John the Rabbit. The next report will be from the government of Alexander Cugel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u43	Dear National Deputies! The right and effective decision is what is being made on time. Regarding the village, the agricultural producer, the village authorities are late all the time. And it makes such an impression that it's done intentionally to depopulate Ukrainian land and steal it from factories and factories. We need to postpone the introduction of these articles in order to ultimately help the villagers survive. Today, a peasant is under constant stress. Because he's not allowed to sell products because there's no one person, essentially no support from the state. If you are a farmer, 15 percent of these people today have to pay their income tax. So I think we have to make this decision, but I agree with the previous reporter that we have to commit the Cabinet of Ministers to do something in this direction, because it will take two years or five years to do it again and we will be in the same situation. We need to get out of what we need to change the government's policy, the policy of the Supreme Council to the village. Because today we're destroying the agricultural producer, primarily because we're narrowing down the markets for his production, and on the other hand, we're over-developed the import sector. And today we are bringing in a lot of meat, a lot of dairy, and these products are being smuggled. So prices are lower than the prices of our manufacturer, and there is no market for our own manufacturer. And that's how the village dies today. So we have to think not only about today, but we have to think about tomorrow, where we can find markets for the agricultural producer and limit imports. Because import ingredient policies are harmful to today’s peasant. So I propose to accept our bill and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u44	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. As far as the bill is concerned, it's government. [[5053-2]] Reported to the Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel. Please, Alexandra Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u45	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished Presidium, distinguished national deputies! We are very grateful to all the MPs who have also passed the bill. Still, we ask the hall to support the government bill. Why? It immediately allows for a five - year postponement of this standard. It's not just done five years as a date, because you know, the program is now being implemented, it's a very serious aid, it's a consumer co-operation that allows the rural population to unite as individuals, to have the opportunity to acquire these processing complexes. And it's already working. And that's why we've clearly calculated that if we're going to accept the program by 2012, and we're going to wait for the government to do the program, you know, according to the rules of application, we have to prepare the concept first. And you and I know, if I've developed a concept, there's nothing left to do. And that's why we're proposing to calm people down, to make decisions about transferring this rule to 2015. Everyone is looking forward to your decision. Thank you for looking at it first. Please support the government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u46	Thank you. Have a seat, please. National MP, author of bill 5053-3, Sergei Volodymyrovich Gordijenko, faction of the Communist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u47	Dear presiding fellows, distinguished peasants! In 2005, the Law on the Safety and Quality of Foods was adopted by the Orange Authority. This law of January 1, 2010, effectively prohibited peasants from selling what had grown in their courtyards. Today our peasant’s hard work and his 18 - year - old state are being destroyed. She's beating the crap out of a peasant because what he's grown up is he can't even sell it. I refer to everyone, to common sense, when we know that when we come from the village of a piece of meat or a meat, whether national deputies or government officials, they first sniff and say: “It’s homely and grown in the backyard. Our bill with my colleague, Marina Perestenko, proposes to postpone the ban on agrofood markets of animal products grown in rural courtyards until January 1, 2015. We also propose that, each year, when establishing the National Budget of Ukraine, spending on networking government sites should be provided for the purchase of milk and meat from the population and other measures aimed at the implementation of articles 33 and 35 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. I emphasize that these points should be national, it shouldn't be that whoever accepts this product determines its quality. If a nation cares for its health, it must control it and protect the one who manufactures it, not the one who does it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u48	Do you have everything? Yes, Your Honor, the report is complete. Please sign up for a discussion if you wish. The essence of the problem is that one project plans to replace the deadline by 2012 and all other bills by 2015. Yes, I'd like to see the name of the national MPs who signed up. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Alla Alexandrovska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear National Deputies! The result is that we became a full member of the World Trade Organization on May 16, 2008, and that some deputy ministers, ministers and deputies received orders to join the WTO, unfortunately very badly. I mean the deputy minister of the Pätnické economy, who should be expelled, but who is being held in the government, I don't know why, he gave up the state interests of Ukraine completely. This led to the fact that now meat has been increased by five times, including beef frozen by 2.4, pigs in 4.4, food sub-products, pigs, sheep 6.8 times, meat and poultry sub-products in 6.1, and this happened again on May 16, 2008, I tell you when it happened. So you have to take urgent measures, just in case! Not just to update, to clean up these people who can't be in the Ministry of Economics, who have been sitting there for many years and I've called that last name. And now we have projects with you. How will we proceed? I think two projects, they're practically identical, this is a government bill and a bill by the National Deputy of Jury, this is 53-2 and 53-1. And the third bill, which is also similar to him, Gordienka and Perestenko, where the 1 point is absolutely similar, and the 3rd paragraph gives the government the task of forming the State Budget to anticipate the costs of creating a network of held points. But it's an assignment -- that's all. While others have a government mandate: how to provide and how to contribute, to develop a national program. So I'd like to accept in the first reading and in general the 5053-1 and 53- bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u50	Yeah. Mikola Kravchenko, faction of the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u51	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction is consistent in its actions, and it is clear that we will vote in favour of this bill, which will eventually save our village. But I'm against the fact that there's a double standard policy going on in our room today. We are excellent at creating difficulties for ourselves, and we are bravely overcoming them. Please tell me, whose votes were passed by the Act of Admission to SOTA? Orange team and some other factions. Who clapped in this room when the Communists told us that our troubles would primarily warm up to the agricultural producer? That's where they clapped. I have a draft order from the last call, from the last session, to hear Petnicki's report, to tell us where the 5 billion bracelets he promised, Ukraine, the agricultural producer will get if we enter the SOT. He has promised us universal prosperity as soon as we enter the SOT. Now the SAT dictates our terms. And I want the voters to know that the STO is the first thing that needs to be solved is how Ukraine will go out of business, or to remove those 17 items that the President secretly signed there without agreement with Parliament in order to get it out, Ukraine is being smuggled into SOT. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask to vote first in favour of this bill, but the main evil is the very presence of Ukraine in the SOT.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u52	Vladimir Landik, faction of “Ours, ” faction of the Party of the Regions, I apologize.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You see, we're all in a hurry again, from the candace, to shut some hole that the Sami broke, and we dug it ourselves to our manufacturer, and we made him scream. And now, with the great permission of the Cabinet of Ministers, we will help you. Why are you making fun of them? First of all, you will apologize to these people. Apologize for burying your national producer. What you've carried in the last seven months compared to the last seven months, think of 126 times the number of milk and milk products! It's 126 times! Not by 126 percent, but by 126. Meat, tails, necks, wings, paws, claws, hooves! You're all dirty outside Ukraine, and you've brought all over Europe here and you're forcing our people to eat it. So apologize for that first, and then do it. And the law has to be passed. It was long before it was adopted, but it was necessary to adopt a law to protect those who suckle these cows and give them orders and medals for being held by these cows! And you just make fun of them, strangle them, and then give them a little bit. It's sacrilege! Make a law on how to make sure they don't take us here in 126, and make sure we increase the export of dairy by 126 times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! The bill has been completed. I'm asking for your attention. For all of us, it is clear that we need to adopt the law in its final form today. I'll put the vote to the vote in order for the registration to come. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'm bringing the committee's decision to your attention that the committee is proposing to adopt Bill 5053-1. Now, in order to register, I'm going to put it to a vote. The first draft of Bill 5053 was put to the vote. The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Inna Bogoslovska. To be accepted as a basis. I'd like the Supreme Council to identify itself. [[10:55:19]] For the The decision is not taken. Now, pay attention! It's the second draft. The authors are national MPs: John the Rabbit, Yuri Kostenko, Jojik, Davidenko This law proposes that the term of trade in peasants produced by 2012 be suspended. I mean, for two years. I'm voting on the draft ruling as a basis. Authors: Rabbit, Costenko, Jojik, Davidenko I'd like to make a statement. [[10:56:11]] For-29 The decision is not taken. I now put to the vote, please note, the proposal of this content. Bill 5053-1, author of the National MP of Ukraine, Mikola Jury. On the amendment to section XI, paragraph 1, of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act on the implementation in agro-food markets of domestic production and domestic waste. It is proposed to grant permission by 2015 for agricultural production. Please vote. [[10:57:08]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! It was an offer to accept the bill as a whole. [[May I have your attention, ……]] Is there a denial? It's actually a bill that fits the government. We have positions in common here. Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u55	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! If we remove from this bill the development of a government program that envisions the development of a concept, the approval then in this room of concept, after the concept of the program, you know that if you want to push the problem into a deadlock, write the concept. Let's remove the government program from this bill and leave what's in government. Measures need to be developed and implemented. What's the concept, what's the program? If we remove it, we can vote in general. And so they're the same as the government's, the jury.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u56	Please. Alexander Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u57	You know, we shouldn't go so far as to get everybody out of the way. The main point of this bill, which Vladimir Mihajlovich has raised today, is that our colleague from the Party of the Regions has prepared it, is that people will not be able to sell what they have grown up on the site for a while or have grown up in their backyard. And that's the whole point. Ivan Grigoryevich, you know the significance of this matter, as no one else does. As for the concept, it is the work of the Government that they are obliged to address and submit relevant documents to Parliament in order to enable us to take a decision. Let us not weary our heads, take this draft decision, and give people the opportunity to do what they really have to do for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u58	Adam Martinyuk. Just a minute. Then at the end. Adam Martinyuk, George Carmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u59	Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I particularly address those who want to vote down now. I'd like to see how the BUT faction goes to the peasants and how it explains how she took care of them. At first, I would like, of course, to have every faction that voted for the WTO come out and repent of what it did. First, they go where they don't want to go, and now they start kicking ass. We had to be wise then. This is one moment. One second. I propose to support in the second reading only the bill that we have adopted. And the third. If we don't have enough votes, even though we have votes, and the BUT faction will be very insistent not to accept this bill, I propose, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, to put to the vote the proposal to shorten the deadline for preparation, and in the next plenary week we will definitely accept it as law, and BUT should go to the villagers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u60	One minute! Everyone, please calm down. George Carmazin, John the Rabbit and John Kirilenko, and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable fellow MPs, we have a perfectly equal position of opposition, absolutely. These two bills are combined, and they are perfectly combined. Before we have voted on the basis, I ask the House by consensus to add a government second paragraph, which has written an order to the government within three months, i.e. the term is, to prepare and approve a plan of action to implement the provisions of articles 33 and 35 of the Safety and Quality of Food Act, which must take account of the international requirements and obligations of Ukraine. I mean, what we've done is we've done the government's commission and we've accepted the proposals that we've just heard, and we've accepted it by 2015, and we thank the head of the jury committee for preparing them properly. And here we don't have to fight, here we have the efforts of all the factions in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u62	John the Rabbit, then John Kirilenko, and then Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u63	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's a contradiction here. There are two standards: one standard is that it delays the ban on the sale of products, and the second rule obliges the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a program. I think if we include in that bill and the system of action, it'll be just fine. The government will develop a system of measures according to the law, according to the WTO requirements, and we need the program, because in the country we need to make a thorough reconstruction of everything. We don't have to leave the village alone. So I don't think we should be doing any tactical maneuvers today. We have to say that we need both the program and we quickly need measures that can be taken by the government according to the law and according to the task. Because it starts on January 1st. We need to strengthen this date, and it is the government that will be strengthening this date, and the program will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u64	Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Regrettably, the speakers who had just broken into the BIT did not see this law in their eyes, for they simply had to attack the BIT. And I'm very sorry, because the MPs who know the law well read the other laws, and this one probably didn't see it in his eyes. Look at the subject of the law. Its purpose is to continue the term until 2015, and that's it. Only in the government is it proposed from the east, from the west and the implementation, and in the bill of colleagues of the jury is it proposed a program. And the program is a delay in the process, because it starts with the concept and so on. Technical stuff. We offer technical things. God be with him, let there be a program, we vote unequivocally so that there is no disturbance in the hall. But I ask you to read the law, and not break the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Alexander Kugel of the government. And we're about to go to the polls. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all very much because I understand that we all want to uphold this law. The only thing is, listen to the information. If we accept it as an editorial where the "programme" is written, we will not be able to allocate a single piece to this program even in 2010. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, a minute. There is a decree that forbids today. stopped, the moratorium on the execution and financing of all state programs. So to get started right away. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. To start funding this program immediately, we propose the second paragraph in the Jury's ruling to replace the Kabminu: to develop measures, and then, as with the Jury, to anticipate the cost annually in the budget. Because the program, you all know, it's not going to be financed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, allow me. May I have your attention, please? Let me read you that bill now that will be put to the vote in general, and we will now find a compromise. It's small. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. In section XI, paragraph 1, of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, replace the figure 2010 with the figure 2015. The other one. This law takes effect from the day it was published. [[Well, we'll take it to the last point.]] The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in three months to prepare and approve a plan of action for the implementation of articles 33 and 35 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, which take into account the international requirements and obligations of Ukraine. Next. Listen, please. In a three-month period, to develop and approve the State Programme for the Creation and Opening of Points for the Purchase of Milk and Fear, the Animal Killing and Sanitation Centres, which are kept in the population. Every year, in the development of the State Budget project, for the year in question, provide funding for the State Programme's actions to create and open up sites for the purchase of milk and fighting, and for the killing and sanitation of animals held in the community. We're going to take all the suggestions into account here. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Because when we're in power, we get into the SATs, and when they're losing power, they get out of the SATs. Everyone has made an effort to bring the country into this state. Well, I'll put it to a vote, if you don't mind, each paragraph separately, and then we'll take it as a law. All right, calm down. So, first of all, we've taken this as a basis, and now I'm going to put every single paragraph on the vote that I've proposed. The vote is a vote. We're all alone for 2015, we need to give people the opportunity to sell their products. That's the main thing and the defining thing, everything else is about finding compromise. Now, pay attention! The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Item 1. In section XI, paragraph 1, “Final Positions”, of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, replace the figure 2010 with the figure 2015. Please vote. [[11:07:01]] For 413 Decision taken. Now let's move on. Item two. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine That's the sub-paragraph. I'll put it to a vote on the sub-items. In the three-month period of preparation and approval of the plan of action for the implementation of articles 33 and 35 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, taking into account the international requirements and obligations of Ukraine. Well, let's vote, Adam Ivanovich, please. Well, take down the vote. Martinyuk. Wait a minute! Change the vote. Adam Martinyuk. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! This is where the MP accused me of misreading the laws, so I'm going to read him this law that they're trying to fool us with. You, dear colleagues, note what they ask us to do: We are asked to accept this paragraph, which says that the law must be sent to the same place. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, what does the Cabinet of Ministers offer? And the Cabinet of Ministers proposes: “with the obligation to take account of the international requirements and obligations of Ukraine”. And the international requirements and obligations of Ukraine are to be in the WTO and not sell any products since the 10th year. So the second point is that, which the Cabinet of Ministers is offering, he wants us to drive ourselves to the corner. This, Ivan Grigorovich, is your reading of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. I'll do it. Dear colleagues, we must adopt the law today, otherwise if there is a denial, we will not adopt the law today. So let's all calm down. We all know what this is about. So I'm going to put it to a vote. You vote -- well, you don't vote -- even better. I put to the vote paragraph two, sub-paragraph one, I read again, this is the government's proposal: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in three months to prepare and approve a plan of action for the implementation of articles 33 and 35 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, which must take account of the international requirements and obligations of Ukraine, please identify yourself and everything. [[11:09:33]] For 208 The decision is not taken. I now place the second sub-paragraph on the vote. In a three-month period, to develop and approve the State Programme for the Creation and Opening of Points for the Purchase of Milk and Fear, the Animal Killing and Sanitation Centres, which are kept in the population. Please vote. [[11:10:10]] For 417 Copy that. Now in paragraph two, sub-paragraph three. Every year, in the development of the State Budget for the year in question, provide funding for the State Programme's actions to create and open up sites for the purchase of milk and fighting, and for the killing of animals held in the community. Please vote, vote. [[11:10:46]] For 418 Decision taken. And the third point. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. Don't you have to vote? You don't have to. And now I'm adopting the draft Law as a whole. [[Registration number 5053-1]] Please vote. [[11:11:20]] For 416 Decision taken. The law is passed. Mikola Kravchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u71	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich! In your information, you said that everyone put their hand up to the collapse that today is in agriculture due to the entry into WTO. I would ask you to remove the Communist faction from there, because we have consistently fought to prevent us from entering the STO. And we warned them what was going to happen. But, as I recall, the Agrarian Party in its time and its representatives were very active in their position to join the SOT and again drew good prospects. Therefore, they took responsibility in public, so it would be appropriate to go out in repentance and apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! I think we'll have the secretariat prepare a letter to the agrarian party and we'll send a note to Miki Kravchenk. But I can remind you, dear colleagues, when in power, as the moratorium on rising municipal tariffs is lifted, let's be calm. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's be calm. The Draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization is under review. [[Registration number 5124]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u73	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! 10.09 The Committee considered the matter. The College has made a statement to be included in the work of the Industrial Policy Committee, and there is a quota for the BUT faction on the Committee. We therefore have no reason to refuse our colleague to participate in this committee. Please support the Committee's decision, respond to the request of the People's MP and include it for work on the Industrial Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, no objection? I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision “On the election of Tishchenko Oleg Ivanovich, Ukrainian National Deputy from the multi-mandatory general constituency district of "The Yulia Timoshenko Block", the faction of "The Yulia Timoshenko", a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship”. [[Registration number 5124]] Please vote. [[11:14:44]] For-360 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Since you and I have reached an agreement that issues relating to the inclusion in the agenda and the referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will be considered after the Conciliation Council is held. I am now announcing a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the determination of the appointment of judges for and discharge from administrative posts]] [[Registration number 3163]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov. The Coroner is the head of the Subcommittee, the Justice Committee of Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u75	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 16 April 2007 acknowledged that it did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine to the position of part five of article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on the judiciary of Ukraine, according to which the head of the court, the deputy head of the court, was appointed and relieved of office as President of Ukraine. The same decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended that the issue of the appointment of judges and the dismissal of judges be settled immediately in the legislative order. More than two years have passed, and the Constitutional Court’s decision is essentially not implemented. Judges are appointed and dismissed from administrative positions by law. To address this problem, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has eight drafts that provide for different concepts for the appointment of judges to the administration. The bill proposes that the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on specialized courts should decide on the appointment of judges for administrative posts by the plenary of the higher specialized courts. Such a decision is taken by the High Council of Justice. The application of the High Council of Justice is based on the decisions of the congregations of judges of the relevant court. Thus, when it comes to the appointment of judges to an administrative office, it is suggested that the views of the judiciary as a judicial body and the Supreme Council of Justice as an independent college body and the views of the Supreme Court and the opinions of the higher specialized courts be taken into account. Please support this bill. The solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u76	Let me finish. Are you all right, Sergey Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u77	That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u78	I invite the head of the committee of the Committee on Justice of Dmitry Sphenov. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u79	Good afternoon! The bill was considered by the Justice Committee at its meeting on 17 September 2008. It aims to regulate the appointment of judges to administrative posts, which has been in force for more than two years in connection with the recognition of unconstitutional rules for the appointment of judges as President. This bill is one of the seven bills on this issue that is under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It may be adopted on first reading by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office under this bill. The bill was considered by the Committee, at the same time by Bills 1122 and 1122-1, which are also on the agenda of today's meeting. The decision of the Justice Committee to recommend Bill 3163 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on first reading as a basis and to take into account the appropriate provisions of Bills 1122 and 1122-1 in the preparation and finalization of Bill 3163 for second reading. Please support this decision of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Helen Shustick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u81	Olena Shustik, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Our faction won't be able to support this bill because I think the author of this bill is on the same graves again. There are two decisions of the Constitutional Court, according to which the Superior Council of Justice is not authorized to make a appointment of judges for administrative posts. Article 131 of the Constitution clearly defines the list of things that the Superior Council of Justice can do. This list does not include the fact that they are appointed as judges for administrative positions. This bill is therefore to be rejected as unconstitutional. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u82	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u83	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Fesenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u85	Honourable Presidency, distinguished colleagues! Appointing judges for administrative posts is already an illustration in the languages. Today we have five drafts to consider. It seems to me, as President with a decade of work, that we are deciding on the appointment of the Pope of Rome. What is the President of the Court today? It is a totally nominal figure without authority and procedural authority. The Presidents of the courts will forgive me. Today, this post is associated with the post of mayor. If, earlier in 2000, the President of the District Court had been the President of the Court's Presidency, he could have protested, as did the Prosecutor's Office of the Area for the sentences of decisions that had entered into force, to protest in the plenary of the Supreme Court, it was a procedural figure with all powers. As a result, 10-15 cases before the Supreme Court have not been considered and are pending their consideration. But as soon as there are draft laws, I support the real draft law that was presented here. Now, I would like to ask you, distinguished colleagues, to stop discrediting the judiciary. More than 8 million civil and criminal cases are dealt with annually by the courts of Ukraine. It's an incredibly high load. There is no such burden in any European country. But all of Europe is amazed at how we treat our judiciary, how we, who are not lazy, water its filth. Yes, there are dozens of miscarriages of justice in the judicial system that violate the oath. But where aren't they? What kind of branch doesn't have them? Or is the judiciary the most corrupt? I wouldn't say that. We love the image of our institutions of power, the image of our country, and we want to look like a civilized European Power. That is not the case, and with such approaches we will be assigned to third world countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all those who signed up. Yuri Carmazin's microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense. Ladies and gentlemen, two and a half years after the Constitutional Court on May 16th, we have no constitutionally appointed heads, deputy judges. So Wakhanalia: The public organization is taking the assignment – a closed circle created today in the judicial system. Can't we see that? We see. We have to adopt any law that will ensure the legislative settlement of this. Moreover, the Constitutional Court’s decision had yet to address the issue of the appointment of a judge as the head of the court or as the deputy head of the court as a matter of urgency. Now for the Constitution. One-hundred-and-thirty-first article of the Constitution, paragraph 1. The appointment of judges or their release from office is referred to as the mandate of the High Council of Justice. All of it. No one else is given such authority in the Constitution! And no social organizations can therefore be accepted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take the basis for further work, taking into account the serious comments that are here in science and expertise and the comments that our colleagues have made today. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I put to the vote a recommendation to the committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the appointment of judges to and discharge from administrative posts]] [[Registration number 3163]] Please vote. [[11:24:42]] For-162 The decision is not taken. I'm voting on a motion to re-read draft Law 3163 first. Please vote. [[11:25:06]] For 176 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the judiciary of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the appointment of judges to administrative posts]] [[Registration numbers 1122, 1122-1]] Rapporteurs of the National Deputy of Ukraine Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich and National Deputy of Ukraine Schustik Olen Jurijovna, co-rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, Dmitry Yuriovich Špenov. Please, Dmitri Mikitovich. I can't see. I'm sick. Helen Shustick, please. Then I'd ask the head of the committee. from the committee, when you speak, describe the features of Bill 1122.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I'm introducing Bill 1122-1, which is an alternative. The bill proposes legislatively to establish a fully justified operational order for the appointment of judges by the Council of Judges of Ukraine. In particular, it is proposed to establish that the appointment of the head of the court, the deputy head of the court in the courts of general jurisdiction other than the Supreme Court of Ukraine, is made by the judges of the relevant courts for a term of five years by the Council of Judges of Ukraine, on the basis of a recommendation from the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the basis of a recommendation from the relevant Council of Judges. In doing so, the appointment of candidates for administrative posts in the courts is carried out on an administrative basis, and most of the composition of the Board of Judges at the time of election is to appoint judges who do not hold administrative positions in the courts. Detailed reasons for the termination of administrative powers in court are set out in the draft. The leaders of the court will be appointed by the judiciary for the absence of any involvement of other state bodies that will make it impossible to influence the judges who hold administrative office. A comprehensive analysis of the current legislation of Ukraine, the provisions of international legal instruments on judicial matters, allows us to conclude that the only valid subject of the appointment and discharge of judges from administrative positions is the Council of Judges of Ukraine. In accordance with article 130 of the Constitution of Ukraine, judicial self - government is in place to deal with the internal affairs of the courts. The internal activities of the courts are covered by article 102 of the Law on the Court of Justice, including the organizational security of the courts. In addition, according to article 116 of the Law, the Council of Judges decides on the question of the appointment of judges to administrative positions in courts. The order of appointment and discharge proposed by my project is in line with the concept of improving the judiciary, to establish a fair court in Ukraine according to European standards. The purpose of the existing one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u90	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u91	judges in administrative positions have been proven in practice. And this was confirmed by the audit, the support of judicial reform to strengthen the independence of the courts, which has shown that after the appointment of judges to the administration of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the influence of politicians on the judiciary has decreased considerably. Dear colleagues, I thank you that the Supreme Council has finally come to a legislative settlement on this issue and I very much ask you to support my bill. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, no questions asked, we voted the procedure with you. I ask the head of the Committee on Justice's subcommittee, Mr. Dmitry Yuriovich Sphenov, to present the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, Bills 1122 and 1122-1 of the Committee on Justice together with Bill 3163, which we have just considered, were considered at its meeting on 17 September 2008. As I have already said, they aim to regulate the appointment of judges to administrative posts, which have already been relevant for more than two years. These bills suggest that this issue be resolved differently. Bill 1122: The appointment of judges to administrative posts in the local courts of appeal with the assembly of judges of the relevant court and the plenary of the Supreme Specialized Court in the higher specialized courts. [[author: People's Deputy of Ukraine Pritika Dmitry Nikitović]] As I have already reported, the Committee on Justice has considered these bills and has decided to recommend that the Supreme Council take them into account in the appropriate situation when preparing, finalizing Bill 3163. However, since the House did not support Bill 3163, I ask the people's deputies to vote on each of these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u94	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Sergey Vlasenko, the BUT faction, then Valery Bondik will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u95	Sergey Vlasenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I believe that the system of appointment of judges for administrative positions is indeed flawed today, but these shortcomings are most effective with the seven essentially alternative bills being resolved and resolved in Bill 1122-1. And I stress that it is in this bill that a completely democratic procedure has been introduced to replace the composition of the Council of Judges in such a way that it does not include judges who hold administrative positions, but judges who are, as it were, private judges and who can express their position by absolutely not relying on the administrative positions they hold. Thus, there will be no insinuation as to what the heads of the courts will assign themselves, as it were, to a position of office. The other one. Most importantly, candidates for administrative positions in courts are introduced on an alternative basis, which is why. That the legislation has not been secured and will for the first time be legislated in this bill. So once again, I think Bill 1122-1 is the best. By the way, I'm drawing attention to the position of the committee, which, after considering all the bills, did not define which of them was better, but recommended that each of them be considered. So once again, 1122-1 is the most successful, I propose to vote for it and to support this very bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u96	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Yuri Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! I ask you to mention the Constitution of Ukraine and how we refer to the courts – “Your Honor”. So the highest position of the judicial branch is the judge. The word “head” of the court is not such in any law, i.e. the “head of the court” is just an administrative position exercised by the judge, and therefore I would suggest that I return to Bill 1122, which was introduced by the head of the former Supreme Economic Court, Dmitr Pritika, who, unfortunately, was unable to report it because he was ill. But, dear colleagues, the whole mess of the judiciary is created because someone seems to have assumed the functions of the head of the court as an improper body. So now how's the election going? The Council of Judges of Ukraine. What is “the council of judges ”? It could be a public organization, a trade union and all that. There is no concept in the Constitution of “Council of Judges”, there is judicial self-government”. Yes, I agree that the Council of Judges is an organ of judicial self-government, but look at how I suggested that this commission decide on Dmitri Pritika in its 1122 law. That is, democratically, all the congregations of judges, that is, the meetings of judges. All the judges get together where they're equal, and by the way, these judges are the oldest judges of the age, and they're choosing their heads, that's the most influential, the most authoritative, well, and they might be the wisest in life. [[That's what happens.]] So, your honor, I would like to vote in favour of the law passed by the head of the Supreme Economic Court by former National MP Pritika Dmitr Mikitovich, because man was really right because man was working in this office. And by the way, we've been on the committee, we've voted, really, to alternatively solve these bills, because both in that and there's a raid. But I'd like to vote in favour of the Bata Project, 1122. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me make a small point: that Dmitri Mikitovich is an active national deputy. You had a conversation there. I'm just clarifying, not commenting, but clarifying that Dmitri Mikitovich is not a former national MP, he's an active national MP. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to listen to two figures right now, just to two. Of the 77 members of the Council of Judges, 58 are in the executive positions of the heads, the deputy heads of the courts, and the heads of the judicial colleges. That is, after the decision of the Council of Judges of Ukraine of 35 May 2007 No. 50 members of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, who co-ordinate administrative powers in the relevant courts, are in fact deciding on their own appointment to administrative positions. That's what we've been through! Is that what we want to keep getting? I would like everyone to come and look at the appeals that are from people today. Keep going. I would like to see in an article of the Constitution the rule that judges are independent, but they are given procedural powers that allow them to intervene in the distribution and trial of cases, the resolution of issues of divorce, the extension of court hearings, and so on. And I'd like us to read the findings of the Scientific and Scientific Administration on these issues. What does it say? It says that the project does not provide for any criteria for the selection of judges for administrative positions and requirements for candidates for these posts. In the meantime, such criteria can be established in the Law on Sudokus. This is not an internal organization of activities, honorable national deputies. These are very serious things. So you have to predict it's the law, and you can't do what you're pushed into. There are serious claims to Bills 1122, which colleague Pritika proposes, are. But you could, let's say, take the basis. You still have to rewrite any bill, you have to make it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u100	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u101	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I reiterate that only the Court of Justice Act can lay down clear criteria for the selection of judges for administrative posts and requirements for candidates for these posts. They should be only alternatives to elections. They're just alternative, and they can't be or they can't be. They are required to be alternatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. The Head of the Supreme Court requests that the judicial corps be represented. Is there any objection? Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u103	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! A moment of attention, and I think you'll understand. What is now the order of election to administrative positions? In addition to the heads and deputies of the Supreme Court? Congregations of judges of the local court discuss the candidature, then the Council of Judges of the area, where dozens of judges discuss the candidature. After this decision, the Council of Judges of the District is sent to the Supreme Court, to the head of the Supreme Court, and I am referring to the Committee at the Council of Judges of Ukraine, where 77 judges of different levels. The committee examines the candidates, the quality of the work of the judge, and appoints the best to administrative positions. This is the order that exists today. 77 judges. I find it offensive to hear from the lawyers when they call the Council of Judges of Ukraine a professional body. Read article 130 of the Constitution, an organ of judicial self - rule, forming the Constitutional Court at its meeting, the Council of Judges, forming the Supreme Council of Justice. What kind of union body is this? I'm ashamed of those words. Next. It is said that this is not a matter of internal self - government of judges. See again article 130 of the Constitution and article 103 of the Code of Administrative Justice. Over the whole period, two and a half years work like this, and I'll tell you the best way. It's not just two or three people in a cell who decide questions, it's a large number of judges. So there are cases when my application is rejected, there are cases where we are already calling off the judges assigned to the administration. And in the absence of time, I'll tell you, different European institutions recommend that this is how judges are appointed to administrative positions. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u104	Helen Schustik, on the basis of the vote. Then there's Valérie Bon dik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! With all due respect to Yuri Anatoliovich, I want a little trailer. The bill itself offers an alternative basis for the election of future judges. Similarly, the law does not contain the position that Mr. Carmazin spoke of. A rotation of the Council of Judges of Ukraine is proposed in order to exclude most representatives of the administrative offices of judges from its composition. That is why, in fact, today's order of election of judges, as the Council of Judges of Ukraine is now doing, which is the appropriate body and is anchored in the bill. Thank you. Bill number 1122-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u106	Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u107	Dear Vassil Vasilovich! I don't go into personality because I respect you very much as the head of all the judiciary of the Supreme Court. But I don't agree with you, because there's a Constitutional Court decision, and you should mention that right now this law that you're lobbying with Helena Shustik, unfortunately not you, but Helen Shustik, you're legitimizing the rightful appointment and the work of the judges. Remember, there is a prosecutor - general’s deputy, or criminal responsibility, for failing to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision, admits the judges. I respect the Council of Judges, but remember the second case when the Chief Justices of the Council intervened in the court system directly, as the party to the trial of the Pecher Court, the Shevchenkov Court and so on, do you remember Vasil Vasil Vasilovich? Therefore, I ask for a political right of reconciliation, let us vote on the draft of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, former Vladimir Mihajlovich, Head of the Supreme. Excuse me, the Head of the Supreme Court is, the Supreme Economic Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u108	Yuri Carmazin, the replica. His name was mentioned, and he has the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u109	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'd like you to watch the papers. The document is based on the conclusion of scientific and scientific management. [[1122-1]] I won't say a word. I quote because my opinion is distorted, I quote the opinion of the NEU. “The idea of assigning judges to administrative positions by the Council of Judges cannot be supported. It should be borne in mind that administrative positions in the courts are a variety of positions of heads of state authorities. The appointment of these posts is a variety of governmental powers. Then they should be appointed and released by the authorities of the State or their officials, rather than by the judicial authorities, which are not the authorities of the State. Because from the point of view of the general theory of state and law, one of the main signs of State authorities, the authorities of the State to which the courts refer is that they are formed in a state order defined by the Constitution or laws.” I think it's all clearly written here. And the conclusion is, "By the outcome of the review, send for further work." That's the scientific conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. [[Registration number 1122, 1122-1]] In order of their coming and discussing, I'm going to put the vote to the vote as a basis. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Sudokustra. [[on the appointment of judges to administrative posts]] [[Registration number 1122]] Author of Dmitri Pritika. Please vote. [[11:43:54]] For 165 The decision is not taken. The draft Act amending the Law on Sudokustura is now put to the vote. [[on administrative positions in courts]] [[Registration number 1122-1]] The authors are Ukrainian national deputies: Shustik, Sweden, Kenzior, Fesenko. Please vote. [[11:44:33]] For 241 The law was adopted as a basis. The bill was adopted on the basis of registration number 1122-1. Dear colleagues! Now, obviously, we don't need to consider the following bills? I mean, we should be looking at more bills right now, because there's already a bill on the ground. [[Registration numbers: 5101, 5101-1, 5101-2, 5101-3]] I suggest you, Your Honor, make it. We cannot consider it, since we have already adopted one law, respected colleagues, we cannot consider it. Please, Sergei Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to make a point, in general, and I wanted to ask you a question. For what reasons and with reference to what standards were Bills No. 5101 and Others registered in general? They're alternate to 1122, up to 3163, and they've been filed, registered for a time-out. So we can't, so we can't look at them for these reasons right now. We have to, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, deal with the apparatus on which these bills were registered. Part of them, which is number 5103, 5101 with 4 badges, are generally introduced with a violation of the deadlines that have been introduced even to these alternative bills. Hence, there is no reason for them to be considered at all today. And I absolutely agree with you for the fact that I was accepted as base 1122 with badge 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, we have dealt with this issue. I want to say that the written answers are given both to our colleague Shustik and, for that reason, she will give you, you will read how this happened. I'm sure the apparatus doesn't have to be pressured. And I would absolutely ask everyone to hold on. So, honourable colleagues, since we have adopted one bill as a basis, all the other bills can and will obviously be taken into account in preparing them for the second reading, and here our position in this regard is unanimous. Let us now consider the following questions. Since we're going to have a jury election at 12:30, I'm going to put in a hearing with my esteemed colleagues, according to the list of issues, a draft decree establishing the boundaries of the city of Saki of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The reporter is Sinchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Saki community violated the concerns of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the establishment of the borders of Saki. For more than 30 years, the city’s borders remained unchanged. The Saki border project was developed by the state-owned company Crimean Research and Project Institute of the Land. Taking into account the city’s overall development plan, the city’s city - council projects. The proposals made specify the area of land within the city on the basis of the geodetic image taken by the state-owned “Krymgeoinformatics” company and do not result in changes in the land accounting of the councils adjacent to the city. The land area of Saka is 2,859 hectares [2859 ha] according to the national land cadastre. It is proposed to include within the city of Saki 14.6 hectares [14.6 ha] of land in the knowledge of the Saxon City Council. And the area of Saki is 2,873.6 acres [2873.6 ha]. The question of establishing the boundaries of Saka is in line with legislation, discussed and approved by the Saxon City Council, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. There are 952 acres [952 ha] in the area of Saki. This is Mikhailivska Falls, Lake Nakupichac, Chokrak and Kevsh ponds, East and West Medical Centers.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u114	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u115	Nearly 300 hectares [300 ha] of energy and communications transport. Among them is the Crimean branch of the Transnistrian Railway, the construction industry, and the food industry. The Supreme Council Committee on State Building supports the issue of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the establishment of Saki. We ask the MPs to support the Saki community with the stated decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, are there warnings?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u117	I'm voting on a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the borders of Saki City of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. [[Registration number 4716]] Please vote. [[11:50:56]] For 294 Decision taken. Next draft of the ruling. Dear colleagues, we still have two draft decrees on the boundaries of cities. I'd like to take a look at them. This is about establishing the boundaries of Putivl city of the district of Sumo. [[Registration number 4717]] I'd like to ask briefly, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u118	The Suma District Council violated the sovereignty of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the establishment of the boundaries of the city of Putovl in the district of Suma. To date, there is a total area of 849,49 acres [849,49 ha] within the city of Putivl. Outside the city, a number of institutions and organizations of the city, industrial enterprises, and other urban facilities were found. In these areas, they are: Brick factory, Silgospenergo, Paradise. , PMK-21, VAT “Agroservices”, Agrochem Society, 249 residential buildings and other enterprises and urban buildings. The project is designed to include only 201.71 hectares of land within the city. This is 80.85 hectares of land that are in the sight of the Bobin Rural Council, the 29th hectare of land of the Princely Rural Council, 45.3 hectares of land of the Saffron Rural Council, and 45.7 hectares of land that are in the knowledge of the Blackgrove Rural Council of the Putill region. And to establish the area of Putivl with a total area of 1051.2 hectares. Supported, there are all the relevant documents: District Council decisions, district council referrals. And this is supported by the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee. Therefore, the committee proposes to approve the request, and we ask the deputies to support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, what do you have to say about this? You don't? Then I put to the vote a proposal by the committee for the adoption of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the establishment of the boundaries of the city of Putill of the district of Sumi district. [[Registration number 4717]] Please vote in general. [[11:53:49]] For 305 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft decree on the establishment of the borders of the town of Kashir Kamen Kashir district of Volin district is being announced. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u120	Volin district council and community of the city violated the concerns before the Supreme Council of Ukraine about the establishment of the border between the town of Kamen-Kashirsky Kamen-Kashir district of Volin district. According to the accounting records, there is a total area of 763.8 hectares within the city of Kamen-Kashirski. In total, there are 707,3 hectares of land within the city of Kamen-Kashirsk, which is located outside the settlement area, and 1.9 hectares of land from the Rakowol village council of Kamen-Kashir district. The question of the change in the borders of the town of Kamen Kashir Kamin-Kashir district of Volinsk was agreed in accordance with the legislation, discussed and approved by the Rakowliv village council, Kamen Kashir village, Kamen Kashir district district, Volin district raids, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations. The State Building Committee supports the Volin District Council's concern at establishing the borders of Kamen-Kashirski. We ask the MPs to support the city community and the draft decrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u122	Thank you. Martinuk is a faction of Communists. Dear colleagues! I ask those who have not yet been to this glorious city to visit him, to be in the midst of the Polish plagues. In general, unfortunately, the land that we attach to this reicenter is wet. But I would ask anything for it, I would like to ask, let's take a friendly vote and support this proposal to extend the borders of Kamen-Kashirska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, are there any other suggestions, recommendations? None. There is a motion for a committee to adopt a draft decree establishing the boundaries of the town of Kamen-Kashirsky Kamen-Kashir district of Volinsk district for the adoption of the project as a whole. [[Registration number 4718]] Please vote. [[11:56:37]] For 306 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you and I were about to discuss the issue of the inclusion in the agenda and the decision on the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on the elimination of inaccuracies in the prosecution procedure as a result of national elections]] [[Registration number 5144]] There is a proposal, and from the committee, including when we consider changes to the Presidential Elections Act, we also consider this issue. Is there no objection? So after 16 hours, when we're ready. So we're putting the matter on hold. And before the break, I would like to consider the issue of the Act adopted on 23.06.2009 “On amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine with a view to overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis”. It is suggested that the honourable colleagues cancel the results of the vote on the adoption of this law. There's an appropriate application from. How's that? We've got it all, we've got it all, we've got it all, we've got it all, we've got it all, we've got it, we've got it all, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got it, we've got In the schedule of meetings, this comes after a consideration of a matter that I have just mentioned. Please take a look at registration number 3585-P. It's all on the schedule. Is there no objection? May I make a proposal to the committee? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the lifting of the results of the vote of 23.06. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's say that we now announce a recess, there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council, after the Conciliation Council, we will consider the selection of judges, and then we will discuss the questions that are related to the amendments to the Constitution, and therefore, the sending of these bills to the Constitutional Court to obtain the relevant conclusions. No objections? A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Invite the deputies to the session room so that we can consider the selection of judges. Let me inform you, colleagues, of the outcome of the meeting of the Conciliation Council. We agreed on two issues. First, with regard to amendments to the Presidential Elections Act: to consider this issue on 3 November, and until now to work actively to obtain, as far as possible, an agreed draft amendment to the current Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. The second is the question of the inclusion in the agenda and the referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of bills relating to amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. Since we, honourable colleagues, need to have a definite solution, it is suggested that we include them in the agenda, the drafters will present their views on these draft laws. Then, after listening to all the bills, we're going from factions to three minutes per deputy and we're going to go to the vote to make the final decision. Plus, at the suggestion of the Communist faction, we agreed that tomorrow we would introduce the draft Anti-Corruption Act in second reading. Such suggestions. So all the bills and draft laws that apply to electoral legislation, we're going to be looking at in a packet on 3 November. As for the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision 3585-P on the Amendment Act adopted on 23.06.2009, with the aim of overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis, I have now had a conversation with Yuri Polunie, also with the Chief Legal Authority, and I have proposed that by 16 hours the proposal should be processed so that they do not consider the issue by surprise. Everyone understands what's going on. Is there no objection? Thank you. An ad for consideration of the question of the election of judges. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Justice, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u125	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! On October 14 and 21, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s head of senior specialized courts on the selection of judges on an open-ended basis and the election of judges previously elected on an open-ended basis. You are well aware of the procedure. The judge is in the guest bed and on the balcony. A draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine 5241 is proposed. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Zubakovo Victoria Petrovna; the Court of Appeal of the Province of Žitomir of Troyanów, Galina Sergiyevna; The Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal, Mr. Alekstendra Volodymirovich; The Kyiv District Court of Simferopol Mikhailov Vitali Eugeniyovich; Zmerinian Regional Court of the Viennese Region of Verivočnov Volodymyr Mihajlovich; The Yellow District Court of Dnipropetrovsk Honcharenko Vadim Mikolaiovich; The Provincial City Court of the Donetsk Region of Germany, Natalia Volodymyrna; Ordjonikidzewski District Court of Mariupol Donetsk Region of Gavrilo Galina Leonidivna Dolin District Court of Kirovograd district of Dranchuk Pavel Yuriovich; Illjitiv city court of Odessa district of Žuravl Philip Ivanovich, Maximovich Galina Vasilovna; Lochvice District Court of Poltava District of Homenk Alexandre Anatoliyovich; Krukov District Court of Kremenchuk Poltava District of Zorin Diana Alexandrovna The Novocahovian City Court of the Hersonian Region of Boyko Marina Eugenyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u126	The Novochakov City Court, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u127	The Komsomol district court of Herson Skorik, Sergio Anatoliyovich; Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of Hmeljna District of Vdovičinska Anatoli Vikentiyovich; Sosnov district court of Cherkasa Melnik Irina Alexandrovna; The right-wing district court of Chernigova Antrashka Igor Anatoliyovich; The Bologna District Court of Kiev, Antonov Natalija Volodymyrna; Righteous District Court of Kyiv Shevchuk Alexia Petrovich; The household court of Luhansk district of Batuk Galina Mikitovna and Lisovický Evgen Arturovich. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, we remove the name of Novokahovsky, the judge of the Novokahov City Court of the Hersonian District of Boyko Marina Eugenyevna. With regard to other names of objections, there are no national deputies? I ask you to prepare for the vote then. And invite the national deputies to the session room. A draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges with the deletion of the name Boyko Marina Evgeniyevna, the Novokahov City Court of the Hersonian Region. [[Registration number 5241]] Please vote. [[12:39:46]] For 330. Decision taken. Samuel Catherine's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u129	Thank you. I'm sorry. Lately, I received a complaint from a participant in the Great Homeland War, a concentration camp prisoner from New Kakhovka, who was well over 80 years of age, Mekaenko, who was the judge we had just announced. The thing is, this woman broke the permanent maintenance contract, well, Zawads, families that. names that don't tell us anything. But the Novochakov City Court, after breaking the contract, decided that, well, such terrible credits as these people who lived with this woman had suffered such losses for constructions, repairs, and so forth. And the Novokahov district judge takes a decision about it. I'm asking you to give me three more seconds. Takes the decision to count the terrible sums.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u130	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u131	And since this woman certainly had no money, there was just a sale of this house, and another judge, Matthew, decided to evict this woman, who would soon be 90 years old. I very much ask, Sergey Vasilovich, your committee to verify the validity of the decisions made. Please. I don't judge which decisions were right or right or wrong. But for me, one thing is that the Novokalov City Court in person and Boyka, and the other I called, is actually an immoral court, because this woman has just been evicted, there's no light, there's no heat, there's nothing to eat. Moreover, she tells me: “Catherine Seminevna, I conquered fascism, I was in concentration camp, but I never thought that my own authority would put me back in prison.”
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in connection with the comments and suggestions made by the National MP, Catherine Samuelk, and we exchanged thoughts with the head of the committee, might we simply postpone consideration of the matter? Please, Andrew Portnov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we did not consider the issue of the concentration camp at a meeting of the Justice Committee yesterday, but were on the right plane. And I want to tell you that for that, there is an institution of the Qualifications Commission, the High Council of Justice, the Committee of Justice exists to deal with all these issues. We have repeatedly agreed with you that complaints that are brought before Parliament without a committee decision on the day of the court hearing will not be dealt with. We do this in order not to create artificial conditions in order not to appoint judges. I want to tell you that in this court yesterday we discussed the issue, there were no problems at the committee meeting, so she has a proposal to support and not create additional artificial obstacles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u134	Any other thoughts? Dear colleagues! We can go in this way. The first is the committee’s proposal to vote. If it's not accepted, and you don't support the proposal to postpone consideration of this issue, you have to understand, as a result of not supporting it, it's going to be a lot more complicated. Peter Cibenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u135	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would still ask my colleagues, including those who work on the profile committee, to respond with understanding to Catherine Samuelk's request. And most importantly, to the situation that this elderly woman has been in. Because, indeed, the situation is not so simple. And when the decision of the court actually put a person on the street, I would ask as head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Organization to still listen to this proposal, eventually they'll check, we'll go back to that question and we'll make a decision that should be made. You don't have to pay any attention to the appeal of a person who came a little later to the committee meeting, and in time, Catherine Seminovna couldn't turn to that. So I ask you not to put all the questions on the vote, put them off so that you don't make any mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u136	Oleg Zarubinsky, then Valerius Bondik.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u137	Oleg Zarubinsky, Block of Lithuania. Dear colleagues! It seems to me that we have to get out of our basic sanity in this matter, and smart people, and we consider ourselves to be that, obviously, we have to predict the consequences of a particular vote. Clearly, under the conditions that have arisen, if we do not now postpone the consideration of this position that Cíbenko spoke of, perhaps a completely flawless judge will not be elected today, that is, not voted. You have a great understanding of the schedule of votes in the room. For her own good, it seems to me that when they find out that there is no fault at all, she will be voted on for the next time. Today, we can fail this candidacy for technological reasons. I propose to listen to the head of the committee, listen to the Head of the Supreme Council, and make sure that these people are not provided with bear service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u138	Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! Indeed, we have made such a decision on the committee that the complaints initiated on the day of the judges ’ consideration, because it is man’s destiny, they should not be considered in the hall. That's why there's such a compromise, because the rights and Katherine Samuelk, and I'm supporting my colleague Andrew Portnova. If the People's Deputy addresses and the Chief of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litwin, he has no right to give orders, but he may care for the head of the Supreme Court, who sits to personally accept it, because we cannot judge decisions, we are not an appeal, we are not an appeal, we are not an appeal. And there's an official, the head of the Supreme Court, and he's hosting citizens, and he's going to personally accept the citizen that Catherine Samuel is bringing here, and he's going to settle this issue in two seconds, and that's my proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, there are no other suggestions? Paul Sulkowski, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my colleagues with such a request, have made a decision on the committee that on the day of the judge's approval the issue should not be considered. And there are resonance cases that really don't know, they do, they just hear the day they read the judge's name in parliament for approval. The matter was taking place on this issue and the complaints went away, and so on, became known to the national deputies on the date of approval. So the wise decision of our Mrs. Catherine Samuelk, a wise offer, I think we should listen. Put it off for Sunday, next week it'll be again, next plenary week it'll be confirmed, and then we'll really help this person, and we'll help this judge. And if we put it to a vote right now, I'm not sure there'll be a vote in favor of the judge. That's why I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u142	Mikhailo Chechtov, then Katerina Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u143	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, not only do we decide the fate of the judges today, but we and you decide the fate of the people I will pass through the hands of this judge when she is in office. Because if there is such contradictory information, so in order to reject all speculation, I think we need to listen to the absolute majority of the people's deputies who have proposed to postpone for a week so that the committee can review, study, move into the hall and we have made a balanced decision by 400 votes with a clear conscience to approve the judge. Now, the proposal to postpone consideration of this matter for a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u144	Thank you. Katerina Lukyanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are not merely buttoned up in this room, and the right of a national MP to make observations at all times. So I suggest that you listen to Catherine Samuel and put that question aside for a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts here with the head of the committee. And the proposal of most national MPs, more precisely, representing the respective factions, is to postpone consideration of the matter. At the same time, I would like to ask the secretariat to consider Catherine Samuelk as a parliamentary request to study the situation. Is there no objection? There's no objection. Thank you. Next draft of the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u147	Draft decision 5255. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: Donetsk's appeal, I'm sorry, the House Court of Novikov Rita Georgievna; Constantine's District Court of the Donetsk Region of the Mudrecian Roman Volodymyrovich; Obukhiv District Court of Kyiv district Kulinichenko Hennady Volodymirovich; The Lightwater Regional Court of the Kirovograd Region of Gontarenko Tetjan Mikolayevna; The Red Cross City Court of Lviv district of Savoljuk Roman Vasilovich; The Kyiv District Court of Poltava, Logwin's Olga Vasilovna. The Shastkin District Court of the Suman District of Starodoubtsev Ludmila Alexandrovna; The Krasnograd District Court of Kharkiv District of Gigilia Pavlovich; Obolon district court of Kyiv Targonius Darius Alexander; Kiev's District Court of Kyiv Chala Alla Petrovna; The Montenegrin District Administrative Court of Spizhavka Georgiyyovich; The Lord's Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Maximo Tetjan Volodymyrna. Please support this bill, this draft decree, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! Warnings, no suggestions? I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to adopt a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 5255]] Please vote. [[12:51:49]] For 345. Decision taken. Next draft of the ruling. [[Registration number 5242]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u149	The committee recommends the selection of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Krulovets Olga Anatoliyevna; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Serkiz Viktor Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u150	A rabbit?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u151	No, no, Serkiz.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u152	Serquis, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u153	Vladimir Mihajlovich, Serkiza Viktora Gigorievich is requested.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! The 5242 decree refers to the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges: the Supreme Economic Court of Krolevec Olga Anatoliyovna. Is there a denial?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u155	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u156	Is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u157	None, none
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u158	Next is Serkiza Viktor Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u159	Yes. Let's make a note. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u160	Lviv’s Administrative Court of Appeal Sappig Vitali Petrovich Please support this bill. Draft rulings, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, we're removing the name Serkiz Viktor Grigorovich. [[This is the Kyiv Court of Appeal.]] And with that in mind, I'm voting on a draft Supreme Council decree on the election of judges. [[Registration number 5242]] Please vote. [[12:53:35]] For 339 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, who were the comments to Serkis Viktor Grigorovich? I can't see. Vladimir Filenko, fraction of BUT, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I have an answer for the appointment of Judge Serkiz Viktor Grigorovich because of a number of circumstances and arguments that I would like to make. First. He's in court, he's got 29 different influences. Even where the judges are said to have a certain message, he had 29 strings for his nonconformity. A large number of decisions that have been overridden by the above - standing institutions. This year alone, he had six rulings overturned under the authority of the judge. And most of all, I was outraged by the fact that a former employee of the Malishev factory in Kharkiv, in fact, almost bankrupted the factory by making a substantial amount of money out of it. I refer to the Harkians of all factions, both in the Party of the Regions and in the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u163	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u164	who know the plight of the leading armored equipment plant in Ukraine, to take this situation into account, and not to support the proposed position of the judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u165	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u166	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You know, with regard to Serkis Victor Grigorievich, it's a long time ago. On 20 March 2008, following a statement by the President of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Council decided to postpone the candidature of Serkiza and to refer it to the Committee for reconsideration. On 18 January 2009, the Committee considered the same candidature and decided to establish a working group from the various political forces represented in Parliament. On 14 October 2009, the Committee considers this candidature again. It was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the election of Serquis as judge of the Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal. If the vote is “yes”, three abstained. The decision was made.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u168	Baburin, I'm sorry, the Communist faction. Then there's Bondick.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u169	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. I spoke at the last meeting when we were going to approve Serquis as a judge, and I gave examples. That's what Philenko said. And in 2009, Sergei Vasilevich had to know that he had the same things again. Here's case 09-07/662. The prosecutor brought a lawsuit, he refused to consider the case, through a higher court, had to consider the case and offered it. What Malishev said is another example. Credobank with debtors. Thus, he did not want to be considered at all, but was again obliged by the higher court to consider the case. Therefore, the system has a person who has not drawn conclusions from the previous meeting. Therefore, I propose not to approve Serkiz, the more he goes to the higher court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u170	Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, this is how we see this farce playing out. Which, in fact, we've already checked with this judge, a working group has been formed, but it's a summation. Well, first of all, about the prosecutor's invitation, which the judge was not obliged to accept. Then you should rejoice that there are judges who make excuses without fear of prosecutors. And by the way, it's not the jurisdiction of the court with the prosecution's appeal, because remember what it has to do with him working as an administrative judge, what does he have to do with bankruptcy proceedings? This is a category of agricultural courts. Secondly, we've already had this letter on the committee, we've been talking about this judge. There we have come to the conclusion on the committee that there are personal accounts with the head of the court. That is why a person is running away from the head of the court. So let's give him a chance to be able to work. He hasn't worked in three years. So I would suggest not to make such an order, but to select this judge, for he has not been appointed for three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u172	Help. Babourin, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u173	I would like to remind my colleague that he will at least take a little bit of Serkiz's data. He worked for the Zaporozhye Economic Court, to be seduced. And I then cited all the examples of the 20 violations when he worked at the Zaporozhye Economic Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u174	Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u175	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to say that the judge, indeed, is the right-wing deputy of Babourin, working in the local court, but in the household. Today, it is a matter of being elected to a higher, higher office to the Kyiv Court of Appeal. I mean, we're increasing the status of the judge. But I don't think there's any basis for a promotion. I have a position of principle. This is the mass of materials where this judge is the worst quality in the position of a judge at the local farm court. For this quality, we today raise it to the Court of Appeal, and then we tell you why we have the wrong decision. You also have to file an application as a member of the High Council of Justice. So, I think, and this is my principle position, which is really, really good reason not to make a positive decision about this judge. Let him stay and work where he works. If he makes the situation, he can still be left if he fails, he should be released from that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u176	Vadim Koleschenko. Then the position of the committee will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, you know, it is no longer in principle for me to vote in favour of this candidature, because the actions of the President of the Supreme Court, Vasili Vasili Vasilievich Onopenko, are not at all within the scope of understanding. The Committee is considering the submissions signed by the President of the Supreme Court, and when he says that there is no need to support this judge today, I have a question. Indeed, there appears to be a conflict, and it was indeed necessary to place a public figure in the hands of the President of the Court to show that whoever was not on the team with me would not be a judge. That's what's causing the most outrage.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u178	Please. Vasil Onopenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u179	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, detail one.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u180	Everyone, calm down, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u181	Respectful colleagues, well, be objective. I didn't file an application for this judge. I have no right to file, I would never file. This was developed by the Head of the Supreme Administrative Court, Pasenyuk Alexander Mihajlovich. And this is just my position today as Head of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u182	Please take the seat of the committee. Dear colleagues, this is an uproar, a study of relationships. Please. Dear colleagues, I want to tell you again. You've been given proof that the Chief of the Supreme Court didn't make this submission, that's all. Please, head of the committee, then. I'm asking for your attention. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there is only one thing to be congratulated for discussing in principle the question of the appointment of judges. That's a plus. Now the position of the committee, please, and then we'll have the opportunity to ask Victor Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, the idea of appointment of judges is introduced on an indefinite basis by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, if any, and then by the Supreme Court of Justice. As for the decision of our committee, I sounded it. Once again, we have decided to recommend that Serkiza Viktor Grigorievich be the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. 9 for, 3 for, 3 for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, for, Here I told you, we have been looking over the course of the year at everything described in the submission in the complaints that have come before the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, this is Victor Grigorovich Serkiz. Please, briefly, on the subject of comments, warnings made by the national deputies, from the Head of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u185	Okay, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time I've stood before you. I'm trying as hard as I can. First of all, here's my official reference, they're on trial, and they're not on the committee for the first time. I've worked irreprehensibly for three years, no complaints, no distractions. I'm finished and canceled first, second and third. Here's the help. As far as they're concerned, it's a stretch. There can only be two types of seizures in the court -- catch-up and release. There can't be 20 charges in court, you know? I wouldn't stand in front of you, you know? If the head of the court is Fedorov, if anyone doesn't know what Fedorov is, you'll find out. If he was depremising me, well, a bonus of 50, when you're all 500, is that a catch on yours or what? How did he want to do it, you know? He survived this judgment by many. You know, I can retire. That's what I'm talking You're ruining my honor, Vasil Vasilovich, do you understand? I'm not the worst judge in Ukraine, okay? I've had better scores in the last three years. What Fedorov did and what he can do with you I don't know anymore. Do whatever you want. () [[Applause]] You don't care about that committee, the Justice Council, you don't care. You've done as you wish. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm worried because I've been forced here already, you know? I'm standing here for the second time. One minute! Mr. Philenko, Mr. Philenko, I've been working, I've been studying in Harkow and in the afternoon, and I've been working there on a famous tractor. A crane driver. I can do it, I've worked. And I have great respect for that factory, and I have great respect for those workers. I didn't bankrupt him, I considered the issue, I made the decision. No one disputed that decision. There's an undisputed debt, you know. I'm here at all. I mean, I heard that, I'm just surprised. I've been working on these things since bankruptcy. I've got this Fedorov guy on 200 cases and he's taken it out of my system. I say: “How can this be done?” He didn't take anything, he wanted to take it. He wanted to do what he did. Do you understand? You can tear up the judge any way you want. But I'm an honest man, that's where I am. How much I've finished. I don't need a job, and I have the honor and the dignity to protect myself in this room. All right, all right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u186	Thank you. Vladimir Filenko, please. I'd like to ask your respectable colleagues to remain calm.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, I have some clarifications. Well, at the moment, it wasn't the tractor factory you were working on, it was the Malishev factory, it was two different factories. We have the same kind of help you have on your hands. I have some information that only this year do you have six cancellations or cancellations in part. And the third. I'm surprised at your tone of conversation you've chosen with the deputies. to speak to the members of the Supreme Council. You should have adjusted, there, a Valerian drink, a hermit, or something like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u188	Yes, please, head. Anatoly Matvienko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u189	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you and, Sergey Vasilovich, to you. Well, obviously, we need to solve this conflict, not by means of today's transfiguration and possibly negative voting, but by the emotion expressed by this judge today, it's obviously also worth taking into account. So I suggest we move again, Sergey Vasilovich, so that we don't make any prejudiced decisions today, because I feel like there will be no votes, and we'll put the question on hold in the first place. So in addition to the suggestions made by Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose that we postpone this decision until we find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u190	Please, Sergey Vasilovich, the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u191	Well, we have it, it's been bugged. I can't make a second offer. We, the Committee, recommended that this judge be elected. The point is, if you move, there may still be a reasonable proposal by the people’s representative, Matvienko. Re-examine, include deputies who may be interested or who have received these complaints. Why don't you take another look and take a look? Maybe we should go that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u192	Paul Sulkowski. And now we're going to figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have just listened to a judge who personally denies it. [[Vladimir Mikhailovich! Vladimir Mikhailovich!]] Personally, I look at this judge: he is personally against today’s vote. He personally goes to: if the Supreme Council backs up today -- he stays a judge, if not -- he's practically not a judge. Is that what I'm saying? No, it's in the last place. So there's a proposition: put a dot today at his request. Put the committee's decision to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Let us do so — in principle and at the same time objectively. So we can now put the first sentence to the vote. If the committee insists, we'll put it to a vote. At the same time, I would like to hear Anatoly Matviennek’s offer. When a person speaks frankly, it means that he is not yet lost. Therefore, it would be possible to postpone further consideration of the matter. There's obviously a conflict, there's a reason. [[One minute!]] There is reason for the people’s deputies to make warnings. Since it's all in total, let's put the question back on hold. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, well, you can imagine how this judge talks to those whose fate he decides if he's trying to teach us here. That's the first one. If you have no pride in yourself, please close your eyes. The other one. No one's letting him go. He doesn't get promoted -- he stays where he works today -- at the local Zaporozhye Economic Court. They want to take him to a higher office. We haven't let that happen to you once. And I suggest you put a dot today. And he wants us to put a dot. He is not unemployed; he remains at his previous job if he remains, for the Chief Justice said that they would be required to study the matter. And I'm not ruling out that you and I are going to see him again on the subject of dismissal at all. So please let's put a dot today. There will be decisions -- support, vote, support. They won't. They won't. They won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u196	You've already made your statement, please. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. A committee proposal. If the chairman of the committee confirms that we should now go according to the committee's proposals, I'm putting to the vote the first question about the appointment, the election of Victor Grigorovich Serkiza as judge of the Kiev Court of Appeal. And if you don't, you know very well that you don't. Then they will continue to study. Please, Sergey Vasilovich, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u197	No, come on, committee. I cannot change the decision of the committee. The Committee has a decision, and I would like to support the decision of the Committee, which is already in your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u198	I'm voting on a motion by the committee to elect the judge of the Kiev Administrative Court of Appeal, Serkiz Viktor Grigorovich. Please vote. [[13:11:49]] For 208 The decision is not taken. The draft regulation 5256 is announced for consideration. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u199	The committee proposes to elect judges previously elected on an indefinite basis to serve as judges: Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine Moroz Larissa Leontiyevna, Receburin Yury Josephovich; the Court of Appeal of the Winnicke District of Yakimenko Marina Mikolayevna; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Kiriyakov Peter Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk district of Dronsky Irina Alexiyevna, Shorty Olen Georgievna; Dnipropetrov’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Sukhovarov Andrija Volodymirovich Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u200	Dear colleagues! Note that there are no warnings to the proposed candidates. I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decision on the election of judges. [[Registration number 5256]] Please vote. [[13:13:07]] For 349 Decision taken. Next, we will consider the draft Supreme Council ruling. [[Registration number 5243]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u201	The Supreme Council Committee on Justice does not recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the election of Bondarenko Roman Volodymyrovich as Judge of the District Court of Dnipropetrovska. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u202	And motivation, if possible, is short for MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u203	At the meeting on 14 October 2009, it was decided by majority not to recommend to the Supreme Council that Bondarenko be elected judge indefinitely. This decision was taken on the basis of information provided by a member of the Committee, who carried out a review of violations by a judge of the current legislation. It was clear that of all the civil and administrative cases before him, 196 had been appealed during her work, of which 180 had been revoked and 9 had been amended. [[more than 3,000]] In other words, the rate of abrogated court decisions is record 91 per cent of the number of defendants. The Committee has therefore considered these issues, and we have made a virtually unanimous decision not to recommend it to the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u204	Andrew Portnov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u205	The Supreme Commission of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u206	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u207	Thank you. Dear colleagues! In fact, Sergey Vasilovich actually said everything I wanted to say right now. This is an unprecedented situation when more than 90 percent of the cases are cancelled. More than that, we have studied in this court the actual delay goes on all matters. I don't want to be a judge. Let's let him go and not support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u208	Is there any other way of thinking? Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u209	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw attention to the low quality of the decisions made by the High Court. You recommend them all. We now have five or six men showing that 90 percent of the lack, these are all the complaints that we're sending you, that you're offended with. But we have people writing them. That's the first one. And the second. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the draft decree means “turn.” So in order for people not to get confused, the national MPs, the draft decrees say "turn" because we are forced to do it by law, otherwise we cannot write. [[5243]] But it adds a decision to the committee, where we say we are absolutely against it. And now Sergey Vasilovich has proved his point. Therefore, this decree should simply not be voted on. And I would ask them to take full measures to make them better. Because yesterday we were looking at a man on whom criminal matters are being handled, and there was an unrescinded submission to be chosen on an untimely basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, is there a need to listen to the judge? Chief of the Supreme Court, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u211	Yuri Anatolyevich, you rightly pointed out that the High Qualifying Commission was working poorly. And now, you know, you've chosen the Higher Qualifying Commission. She was headed by the Head of the Supreme Court, former Boyko Vitaly Fedorovich. And at the last sitting, six judges were not recommended. This is the commission that was before that. And I am grateful for the new composition of the Higher Qualifying Commission for these principles of decision. That is why we draw conclusions and correct the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, is there a need to listen to the judge? Nobody insists? But please, briefly. One minute, judge. Roman Volodymyrovich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u213	Thank you. Honourable deputies, the only reason not to recommend me as a judge, was to provide guidance on the quality of civil cases. But the information it contains does not match reality and other statistics. According to statistics from the judiciary, the cancellations account for 13 percent of the number of defendants. And by the way, this is 91 percent. This help came as a result of a review of a complaint about a case that I did not have at all. Please consider that it is not only my destiny but also my family’s fate that is being resolved. I ask you to approach my question fairly and impartially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u214	Please, the committee's decision doesn't need to be announced again?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u215	We have a solution, but we can't change it now. We don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u216	Dear colleagues! Accordingly, the committee decided not to recommend. At the same time, according to the Rules, the draft decree is formulated as a proposal for election. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not support this project, it means that the decision is actually taken by the committee, and the judge is not elected to office. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I suggest you put another motion to the vote. Because it's hard to figure out which one of them is right, whether a judge who speaks of a number 13 or a reference to a number 91 is wrong. So let's put it to a vote, so that this is decided by the vote of the Supreme Council, so that we can get the committee to figure out these numbers again, and then we will make a conscious decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u218	This is where it comes in.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u219	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u220	Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u221	Dear colleagues! I did not go into more detail about the violations committed by the judge. I want to tell you that it's just recently with complaints about this judge. First, the judge categorically objects, the President of the court said that it was impossible to work with such a judge. It's the same thing. And the second. More than 40 complaints have been filed with the October Court of Justice only recently. And we looked into, and checked with the commission, and a commission was appointed, and the People's Deputy of Portnow checked all these facts that were heard here today. That is why we have practically made this decision. Well, what are we gonna talk about?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u222	Andrew Portnov, please. Andrew Portnov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, when a committee meeting also reported that it did not correspond to a figure of 90 percent or 13 percent, all the cancellations were made available to the committee. Therefore, when reporting to the committee, members of the committee had the opportunity and members of the committee took advantage of this opportunity to learn about these resolutions. They are officially on the Justice Committee. So we are fully responsible for the figure that we have just reported: over 90 percent of cases have been cancelled, the highest rate in Ukraine. Please do not recommend a judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u224	Dear colleagues! A proposal is put to the vote. Change the vote. Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u225	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. As you can see, the situation is quite complex. When representatives of the committee say that a person is accused of being a fake judge, and a judge accuses the committee of being a fake, it's not just a question that should be decided by a simple vote. So I fully support Martinyuk's proposal for a commission to report to the hall who was right and who was trying to falsify all of this. That's a pretty serious question. And that's why I don't think we need to do this by simply simply voting this question right now. Let them tell us who is trying to mislead the hall, whether it's a judge or our noble committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u226	Dear colleagues! I suggest we go this way. May I have your attention, please? I'll put it to a vote that if the Supreme Council doesn't support it, then I'll put it to a vote for the election of the judge. If the Supreme Council doesn't support it, the judge isn't elected. Is there no objection? I'm voting to postpone consideration of the appointment, the election of Bondarenko Roman Volodymyrovich as judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u227	About the assignment, or.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u228	I am voting on the postponement of the question of the election of Bondarenko Roman Volodymyrovich as Judge of the Yellow District of Dnipropetrovska City, on the postponement of the question of appointment. Please, come on. [[13:22:47]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Please. Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u229	Sergei Vasilevich! Alexandrovska, town of Harkov, faction of Communists. I have a question for you next. It is my understanding that, according to our laws, this judge has been brought before the judge for approval for life. And that is, if I am not mistaken, the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u230	No, you're wrong. This is provided by the Higher Qualifications Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u231	Excuse me, yes, Supreme Qualifications Commission. Perhaps the commission she was filing was collecting documents that we might have what the commission was filing for approval, knowing that the indicators were those that said that a person could not be a judge. What is this mandatory procedure? It's not approved for life. Why should such a candidature be presented with such indicators? So there's probably an unbiased assessment of this person's activities here. I'll ask you to convince the hall or agree that the question needs to be postponed and addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u232	Dear National Deputies! Sergey Vasilovich, one minute. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support the postponement of consideration of the matter. Let us respect the Supreme Council of Ukraine just as the people whose fate is decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A second proposal is now put to the vote. We are in the process of voting for the election of Bondarenko Roman Volodymyrovich as Judge of the Yellow District Court of Dnipropetrovsk. [[Registration number 5243]] I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to identify itself. [[13:24:43]] For-0 The decision is not taken. Next order. [[Registration number 5259]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u233	The committee does not recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect Bragin Viktor Ivanovich to serve as Judge of the Andrushov District Court of the Žitomir Region on an uninterrupted basis. Please also support this draft decision. Not recommended.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u234	Please, please, let me know about this.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u235	On 2 June 2007, the Council of the Yulia Timoshenko Council, by its decision, terminated the mandate of nine members of the Zitomir Regional Council elected on the list of BUTs in the 2006 elections. On 14 November 2007, Judge Bragin, in order to secure a lawsuit with the determination of the Andrushov District Court of the Žitomir Region, suspended the decision and committed Zitomirsky to allow the nine deputies from BUT to participate in the work of the Regional Council and its bodies. On 11 December 2007, he resolved the case in substance, satisfied the claim in part. In this regard, the Committee has been requested by two Ukrainian people's deputies from BUT not to recommend that Bragin be elected indefinitely. However, the facts in Bragin are mixed and the claims against his actions are contradictory. The complainants refer, for example, to the ruling of the Kiev Court of Appeal of 10 July 2008, which is controversial. Judge Bragin's determination on 14 November 2007 was allegedly annulled as illegal, while in fact the ruling of the Court of Appeal annulled the other decision of Judge Bragin of 11 December 2007, in which the dispute was resolved. In fact, Judge Bragin annulled his own contention of 14 November 2007. Moreover, on a request from BUT in the same case, Judge Bragin refused to consider half of the claims. Furthermore, in their appeals, the complainants insist that Judge Bragin be brought to disciplinary action. I want to tell you that the Territorial Qualifications Commission has refused to bring Bragin to justice. Although there is not yet a decision by the Supreme Council of Justice, there is a decision by the Supreme Council of Justice section, which clearly states that the section does not support the decision to bring Bragin to justice. But the committee's decision is like that. And there was a disagreement on the committee. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should therefore decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u236	Valerius Pisarenko and then Ribuk. And then there's Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u237	Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, the committee decided not to recommend. He used an exclusive legal position regarding the judge’s activities. Let's take a step before the election today that we'll show the judicial system that we don't need to play politics first. This judge did a small thing for him, but against the backdrop of all the state apparatus in his district without territorial ties, he stopped the decision of the higher political authority of one of the political powers. And whatever political power this decision is now required to report. If we want the district courts, including Zitomirsk, any other area, to stop any decision that concerns the electoral process, the state system independent of their competence, let's give this judge a mandate to work. Why didn't we recommend it? There were many reasons that the committee head was not talking about right now. And I'm asking if you can finish this report.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u238	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u239	There was one very interesting moment when the judge told us such a thing. You know, I made the decision of another court rewritten, and I thought I'd have nothing to do with it. That is, the judge admitted that he did not use the facts he had in the case, and he copied the decisions of another court on other facts, under other circumstances that were unknown, which had legal meaning. So today this judge, he's not just dangerous to this court, he's comparable to the whole system, against the backdrop of the President's election. So, strictly, I insist that no vote be given for this judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u240	Sergey Rybuk, please. Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u241	Thank you. Sergey Ribuk Zitomirščina. Dear colleagues, I've known Judge Bragin for many years. As you can see, the claims are completely different from those of the previous judge. While we were still working in the area, we had no claim; he was always objective, qualified to deal with matters, and we had no claim. What's more, I'm still working in the district where Andrew's district is, there's no claim to qualifications, to jurisprudence, to the moral qualities of Judge Bragin. As you can see, the political community is trying to blame him here. I asked my fellow national MPs who had such claims by Bragin: “What’s the matter?” “They told me frankly, colleagues, that he did not listen to us when we asked him to take decisions in court.” So good that he did not listen is objective and principled. And he does not submit to any political power. Well, maybe he's not here much. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u242	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u243	I'm sure, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, that we're about to declare here, by voting for Victor Bragin's election as judge, and that will be true justice, and it will be the right decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u244	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u245	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Sergey Vasilevich, please tell me at this meeting of your committee that decided on this judge, how many people's deputies were present? And please, on factions, the number of deputies who voted on this decision. I want to understand. It is my understanding that there is indeed a political influence, a political pressure that is being exerted on the judiciary today. And I'm sure that we all, MPs, have to take this as a negative example. So, please, how many deputies voted in favour of this decision, for the decision you have made, and for what factions do they belong?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u246	Well, I want to tell you that the Party of the Regions did not vote to not recommend; the Block of Lithuania did not vote and our Ukraine did not vote either. BUT voted in favour. One or two votes were in favour of not recommending. If there's a solution, I definitely don't remember the amount, but the quorum was, I think, 13 people in the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u247	Dear colleagues, I'm asking for one of the factions and we'll make a decision. Let's not translate that into a political plane. Labunski, please. Then there will be Paul Zebrowsky. That's enough. Then Chechetov and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u248	Sergey Vasilovich, I'm so sorry, I don't understand why you're reporting to the committee in a very different way, and today you're putting political debates on the Supreme Council. I want to remind you, raise the transcript of the sitting, thank God, we have an audio recording: yesterday all the members of all the factions on this person voted unanimously not to recommend it to the judge. And the “Block of Lithuania”, which was also a representative, voted in favour, and Sergey Vasilovich personally voted in favour of not recommending this judge. And you don't have to say that these are political arguments, because I'm sorry, I want to remind you that there's a law that says that political parties' decisions are not subject to trial. And the committee took a principled position: no matter what political power a decision is made for, if the judicial system intervenes in political parties, we make all decisions in all the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u249	Paul Zebravsky, please. Then Mikhailo Chechetov, then Rudchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u250	Respectful colleagues, in fact, do not care about the political power of decision - making. It's either legal or illegal. This decision was illegal. I want to say that I didn't represent the committee on another issue of similar confusion, where the judge in question also made the order, unfortunately. It's sad about that, and that's why I don't want them to be divided by colors: today by BUT, tomorrow by our Ukraine, and tomorrow by the "Regions" they'll make a decision. And, my friends, there's no politics here. There is a little bit of a different interest in the judge. And that's why I don't want you to put politics here. Believe me, there is no policy in this decision of this judge, and there can be no policy. That's why I'm asking you to support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u251	Yes, please, Mikhailo Chechetov, after that Mikola Rudchenko, and we're all on the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u252	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! But we will soon come to the point of absurdity, because it is against the judge that he is supposed to obey the law — you have to think about it! - not listening to a political party. Give God that there may be more judges who obey the law and do not see political parties, then order in the country. Therefore, I propose that you support the judge and God let him continue to obey the law, not to pay attention to political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u253	Mikola Rudchenko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u254	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! There are strange things going on in Zitomirsk, and today there is an illegal district council and its head. I wouldn't speak, but since my colleagues in political power, who came to power one-on-one in the Zitomir region, are doing everything possible for her. And if it isn't their political power of judge, any leader of his away. So, your honorary colleagues, my friends, please let's leave the politics and the deliberations that are taking place in this courtroom by the judges for later, and today we will appoint Bragin, and thus confirm the justice of the law and our case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Along with it. Please note, I will now put to the vote. But at the same time, let us all understand together that if a deputy follows a party list of political powers, he obviously has to implement a political party decision. In a number of cases, people come out of factions, they run into other political forces and they're covered up by the courts, so we obviously have this approach: either in this matter we need to get even more clear, we need to go back to the substance of the claims to this judge, or I'm going to put it to a vote. But according to the law, it's not a court case if we have a proportional electoral system. So there's two proposals. The first is to put the committee to a vote. And the second sentence is to re-examine that question. I'm fine coming here, but it's clear that if he's not voted, he won't be elected judge. I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the election of the judge, namely: Bragina Viktor Ivanovich as judge of the Andrušov District Court of the Žitomir Region. [[Registration number 5259]] [[13:37:54]] For 227 Decision taken. The draft Regulation 5257 is announced for consideration. Please, with the motive of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, dear friends! The Committee does not recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect the Ukrainian Forest Ivanovna to serve as the judge of the Lenin District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u257	Please motivate the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u258	After a lengthy discussion, the Committee decided not to recommend the nomination by a judge. The case is that during the electoral process of the 2006 election of deputies and presidents of local councils, a panel of judges chaired by a judge of Ukraine violated the electoral law by its decision. This is a de facto replacement of the authority of the electoral commission by a decision of the court, resulting in the electoral commission of one area, in fact, establishing the results of the elections in another area. These facts have been verified. A working group of committee members conducted the review. He reported the results of a member of the Committee, after which the Committee decided not to recommend the judge. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u259	Yuri Carmazin, microphone. Then the National MP Pisarenko. And let's do one from the faction, and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u260	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! Now, you see, at a committee meeting, the previous judge, who was immediately chosen by some, explained his position this way: “I have taken and copied the ruling of the Cave Court of Kiev literally. Well, then I got canceled. I understand what was wrong. It's up to who we're approving right now, trying to politicize these issues. You can't do that. With regard to this judge, the committee appointed various test groups for two years. We came to the conclusion that she was head of a college where there were simply wildly unjust decisions. The motive now is that the head of the court was in this college, and he didn't stop. And she wasn't the presiding officer. Obviously, such a judge has nothing to do, two years later she gets a job.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u261	People's MP Pisarenko, microphone. Then there's Valery Bondick.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u262	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank individual members of the People's Self-Defense for having just made a decision on a judge who, I think, will be able to make a very interesting decision in the election process in the future. Now in front of us is a judge who also worked very interestingly in the election process and actually led to the victory of one of the mayors who shouldn't be like that, but who withdrew from the registration of another candidate. But come on, I'd like to talk in the hall so that we can take a principled position. If you want to turn these elections into war in court, you will soon have good reason: You will run into the judicial system of those judges who have already shown themselves. Today, the Constitutional Court has given the possibility to sue the courts for any action, even if the mice are running around the hall. And this will lead to judges like Rutchenko and others there. Which you have just made, that they will make such decisions, that future elections will be as they were in 2004. So continue, People's Self-Defense, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u263	Valery Bondick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u264	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! We have this situation that we have this idea of analogy. You know, on the committee yesterday, we decided not to choose this judge. But two judges had already been elected. This judge, she was just one of the three, or presiding. And there was a reporter and there was another judge. Well, I suggested, and all my speeches were always consistent. I suggested that we stay away from double standards. I agree with that, with my colleague from another faction. So you can anoint the judge because his name is Ukrainian. Personally, I take the card out, I hold on, so I don't want to get in my vote at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u265	Thank you. Head of the Supreme Court Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u266	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want you to think about the objective side of the matter. Indeed, Ukrainian Lesio Ivanovna, made up of three judges in 2006, dealt with the issue of electoral law. It's been three years. For 2 years, the judge is no longer serving as a judge. She was accompanied by two other judges. Please tell me, who today can say that she is guilty of making the right or wrong decision? There's a secret counseling room. What if two judges were against her decision, against her opinion, her guilt? I'll tell you more, the head of the court who was sitting next to you, and the deputy head of the court who was sitting next to you, I can call their names, they're already working at the Crimea Court of Appeal today, they've been picked up for promotion. So why are we essentially having political proceedings against this judge today? I don't care what political power initiates this question. I mean, that's not right, that's not fair. And if we want to make fair decisions in the next election race, let us be objective and do what is right in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u267	Dear colleagues! That's it. Judge Lecia Ivanovna of Ukraine, please, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u268	Dear National Deputies! Highly Honourable Legislature! I fully trust your opinion on your choice. The only thing I want to say is that the decisions that have been taken by a college of judges under my head have become valid, unaccused, and unconscioned. There's nothing more to add. No pretenses, no arguments. I handled matters objectively, on the basis of the law. Please consider this and make a balanced and reasonable decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please proceed to making a decision? I am voting on the draft decision “On the election of the Ukrainian Forestman Ivanovna as judge of the Lenin District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea”. [[Registration number 5257]] Here comes the vote. Please control your emotions. [[13:45:49]] For 228 Decision taken. [[Applause]] The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the election of Willuk Mikoli Pavlovich as judge of the Gorokhov District Court of Volin Region” is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5258]] Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u270	The committee also does not recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine elect Willuk Mikola Pavlovich to serve as judge of the Gorokhov District Court of Volin County on an uninterrupted basis. Dear colleagues, between February and November 2007, Judge Willuk ruled in 3 cases of traffic violations in which the same court had already been ruled. He approached new decisions in the same number and that the originals had signed them on behalf of the President of his court. I mean, he falsified the solution that he did. Respected colleagues, as a result of these decisions, have been fined instead and continued to operate vehicles. In the fourth case, Judge Willuk, instead of his initial decision, which had been denied by a driver, had also made the same number a new decision, which had been mitigated by the fine and the original decision had been withdrawn from enforcement. Having established these facts, the Qualifications Commission of the Judge of the General Court of the Lviv Appeals District on 11 July 2008 restricted itself to making a statement to Judge Villuku. With regard to the judge, as we have considered, the judgement of the Rowen District Court of Appeal of 6 April 2009 has come into force, where Judge Willuk has been sentenced to two years'imprisonment on condition that he is prohibited from serving in the judicial system for a period of two years. To date, I want to stress that the sentence is being appealed in court. There is still no final decision. Having studied the material, the Committee unanimously decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Villak be elected indefinitely. [[This is where I emphasize]] Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u271	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u272	Dear reporter! Dear National Deputies! The Gorochov district is my district and I know this judge very well. I am sorry that I missed the committee’s consideration of the matter. I want to stand up for this man. Whom he justified with these rights are the three mechanics who have been asked to give them rights because they will not go into the field. And it was just this case where he, defending the interests of the people and the village leaders who asked you not to order the boys at that time, did a good thing and would atone for it, that's what this sin is. And you know, sometimes a sin is committed for a bribe, it's done. Well, it's justified by people who violate, in fact, and create different emergency situations. And these are the rural ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u273	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u274	And these are the village boys mechanics. You know, sometimes after work, they drink beer. I'm asking you so much, let's give this young man a chance to work. I will be very grateful to all who will support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u275	Valerius Bondik, then the People's Deputy Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u276	You know, there is this notion of “new conditions”. I agree with my colleague, I didn't know this case when we voted on the committee. And the case where I voted against this judge, but we didn't study the judgments against this judge. Because we think so, if there is an application by the Head of the Supreme Court, which should be, then the judge is suspended and he is dismissed at all by decision of the Supreme Council of Justice. We have cases where the Supreme Court’s application does not come, and the judges of Sevastopol’s indictment, for example, work for two years, serve as a judge with an indictment. So, as in the last case, unfortunately, I can't give up my vote on the committee, and now I'm taking out the card, let him decide the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u277	Yes, Valery Pisarenko, please. One of the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u278	Dear colleagues! We have to remember that we're doing important things right now, we're forming a judicial corps. And the problems that arise today, as we have Judge Zvaric, are now the head of the District Administrative Court. The problems that we have right now depend on how we vote with you here and what we take into account that we don't accept. I want to talk to all my colleagues who only see good in people. So, according to this judge, well, first of all he wasn't in session, second of all, we have an indictment against him in an appeal, and that's gotta be taken into account, that's the first. Second, look what we did today. Two judges who actually violated the electoral law, two of us today have been reappointed to serve as judges. I want to tell you that we've just consulted our colleagues here. Well, we're going to drop a number of cases now, and we're going to deal with the fact that all the judges are going to be released again through the High Council of Justice, and we're going to get justice to go another way. As for the approach, let us decide for ourselves which judicial corps we want to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u279	Yeah, every faction took advantage, right? Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u280	Dear colleagues! I'd like to hear again what he did, for which he didn't bring the responsibility of three rural mechanics. For a violation that was, in fact, extremely criminal or for a violation that you could, in fact, see that let the boys work in the field and then I'll deal with them if they drank there and no serious crime was committed. Do you know what was the violation of these mechanics, Sergey Vasilovich? This will depend on how we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u281	Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u282	Dear colleagues, from the information we have, the judge, Judge Willuk Nikolai Pavlović, he makes one decision. In the beginning, decisions are taken to deprive drivers of their driving rights. I don't know why. Such decisions shall be taken in court and shall deprive them of their driving rights. He then changed his mind, overstepped his own decision, and instead made another absolute decision. Well, it's a serious breach. It's the same thing. Second. The judge, in relation to this judge, was convicted, we have already spoken, dated 6 April 2009. But I do have information that on 28 June 2009, the Supreme Court of Ukraine over Willuk's appeal was overturned, and the criminal case was directed towards a new trial by the Court of Appeal of the Plain region. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, not all of you, but you've spoken, you've already said everything. Is there a judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-10-22-m0.u284	None. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Focus on the vote. Draft Decision “On the election of Willuk Mikola Pavlovich as Judge of the Gorokhov District Court of Volin Region on an uninterrupted basis”. [[Registration number 5258]] [[Registration number 5258]] Please vote. Vote. [[13:54:58]] For 245 Decision taken. The judge is elected on an open-ended basis. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome the judges we've just elected as judges on an untimely basis. [[Applause]] And we wish them one — the faithful service of the law in good health. So we won't? Dear National Deputies, since we cannot now begin our consideration of matters, since we will complete them within 14 hours. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We'll continue our work at 4:00 in the evening plenary.
