ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:47]] There were 402 national deputies registered with the cards. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. More like, yeah. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of Tuesday’s schedule, June 2. It's being announced. Yes, dear colleagues, we were about to consider with you a draft of the Law amending the Law on Electricity, on the introduction of differentiation of electricity consumption tariffs. [[Registration number 3597]] The project was called off. with a letter calling off their draft law in view of the fact that the issue has already been settled at the executive level. That's why we're taking this bill off the table. No other questions? The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 1280, is being announced for consideration. [[on student self-government]] The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Suslov Evgen Ivanovich. Coroner is the head of the Science and Education Committee's subcommittee, Kurilo Vitaly Simeonov. Please, Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Higher Education Act, registration number 1280, introduced by me and Mikola Tomenko on 25.12.2007. [[on student self-government issues]] Let's all remember the years of our college. These years are triggered by the best of emotions and memories. However, students have already become children, grandchildren, a new generation of personalities who need new more individual conditions of learning and university life. The Ukrainian Act on Higher Education does not provide for any involvement of student self-governance bodies with higher education institutions and does not establish any mechanisms for these bodies to carry out their functions. The proposed project aims to legally strengthen the action, legal, organizational, and financial mechanisms of students’ participation in the lives of higher education institutions and their structural units. It is proposed to expand the powers and functions of student self-governance bodies, and a quota is set for the representation of students in colleges of higher education institutions. The question of the formation and functioning of student self - government bodies is clarified, and the spheres, forms, and directions of their activities are defined. New mechanisms are being strengthened by the appointment of professors from teaching work, the financial and material and technical provision of student self-governance bodies is being strengthened. The observations expressed by the science-expert administration will be changed in the context of the second reading. The full structure of student self-government will serve to ensure the quality of education services provided, including through the State Budget of Ukraine. The rise in social and political stability in Ukraine and the socialisation of studenthood within the framework of machinery, democracy and law. I'm sure none of them are present.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u3	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u4	I'm sure no one in this room will be able to deny their students the right to the elements of self-government. Dear National Deputies! Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u5	Vitaly Semenovich smoked, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u6	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The committee discussed at its meeting the draft Law “On Amendments to the Higher Education Act” and recommended that this law be considered in the first reading in order to further develop it. I'm going to say that this law is enough, these changes to the law, they have some relevance, because really student self-government is not enough for us to develop in many higher education institutions. At the same time, the committee noted, as well as the expert board, that this law has a number of, in the project, contradictions, changes proposed, not all are systemic or at the same time they do not always comply with other articles of the Higher Education Act. It is therefore recommended that the law be adopted as a basis for the first reading and then that it be further developed in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the bill. It's a recording. Please put the name of the national deputies on the board. National Deputy Korge, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u8	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a respected Ukrainian national deputy, is being examined with a very timely bill, long awaited by our entire society. It aims to significantly expand the powers and functions of the self-governance bodies of students and postgraduate students in the higher education system. In particular, it is proposed to set a quota for the representation of students, students, postgraduate students in colleges, at least 15 per cent of the total number, to clarify questions about the formation, functioning of student self-government bodies at the level of the highest level of the institution or its separate departments and to give them legal status. It is also suggested that the spheres, forms and directions of self - government bodies, including the identification of a circle of issues that are only agreed upon by the student self - government bodies, should be specified. Counting and transferring a student to the appointment of a deputy dean, the progéctor responsible for working with students, and so forth. Please support the decision of the Main Committee to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u9	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u10	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear friends! Some may feel that this law is so technicalally irrelevant and perhaps someone is trying to fill a break between such political laws by this law. But actually, that's not true. Not only do I think that I am the leader of a youth organization called the New Generation, but we work a lot with students, and even from the strategic goals of our country's development. We're building a democracy, we're building a civil society, we want there to be specialists on the job market after we graduate from higher education institutions, professionals who are able on the second day after getting a diploma, to give extra value to the employer. And all these questions require a major reform of education. I think we're going to consider a whole new edition of the Higher Education Act, but clearly, the one that the authors of this bill are proposing to us will be a step forward. When we involve students themselves in the formation and educational policy of a higher education institution and self-governance within this institution, and in the allocation of resources that they receive from the state or from those students who are learning. Dear colleagues! You can be criticized for some local minor matter, inaccuracies in terms and so forth. You can do that. But we're looking at this bill in the first reading. And I'm asking you very much to support it, and I'm sure we're working on the second reading, and our young people will not only get the promises of politicians to influence the development of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u11	Thank you! Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u12	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Oleg Zarubinsky "Block of Lithuania" Dear colleagues! Rather than criticizing the bill, the question is, How can it be implemented or unfulfilled standards found in it by the legislators of the legislative initiative? You know, today only a lazy one doesn't say that the management sphere, politics and everything else in Ukraine needs to be updated. The truth is, often, it means people who are barely in control of diapers and consider themselves very young politicians, I don't want to talk about them. I want to talk about that in the student environment, first of all in universities, in the third-fourth-level accreditation institutions, really, the future of the elite and not just the political, managerial elite. And so the existence of a mechanism, a tool for preparing for such an important state function, is in itself a positive one, that's the first moment. One second. The current legislation, in particular article 38 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which deals with the issue of student self-government, does not in fact provide for a real mechanism to carry out the student self-government tasks imposed on them. On the other hand, I can't agree with the criticism about not having to set student quotas on scientific boards. Because how will the instrumentation influence U.S. politics, the politics of universities. You can argue in preparation for second reading whether it should be a quota of 15 percent, or 13 percent, or 17 percent, but the fact itself is positive. But I agree with my colleagues that there are a number of major shortcomings, especially there is no differentiation between universities, the 1st and the 3nd levels of accreditation and the 3rd-IV.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u14	And there are legal consequences because there are usually people in technical schools and colleges who are underage as opposed to universities, institutions where they are adults with all the legal consequences coming out of this. So, I think you can take it as a basis, support the idea, but seriously enough to clean it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Ministry, is there a question in the Ministry? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u16	We're willing to support some of the proposals for second reading there.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the draft law as a basis. [[Registration number 1280]] I propose to the committee a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. [[on student self-government]] [[Registration number 1280]] Please vote. [[16:14:09]] For 326 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now consider the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Publicly Compulsory State Pension Insurance, this is registration number 1159. [[on the transparency and predictability of the pension system]] At the same time, there is a letter of this content: “Please move to the next plenary week a review of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance in relation to the need to eliminate certain inconsistencies and to finalize the bill. [[on the transparency and predictability of the pension system]]
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u18	One of the authors of the draft law, Sánchenko, signed it. Then do we postpone consideration of the bill or will you report? Then I'm so ready to report the draft law, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. Yes or no, will we consider? [[B in m in s a l in]] So you agree with that offer? Well, then, let's postpone the bill. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the limitation of pre-election agitation]] It's an actual bill, so we start looking at it. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich. The focal point is the head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Upper Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u19	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, a valid draft of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, have set certain restrictions on the conduct of pre-election agitation. Where did this bill come from? I am confident that the Supreme Council and all the officials of this state must comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And this decision back in 2005 at the number 3-P, the election case of the President of Ukraine determined that the system of executives was governed by subordinations that indicated that managers and other lower-level officials were not subordinate to the workplace, but were in a service relationship with senior officials. In connection with this draft law I have introduced, it is proposed to prohibit a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, who takes office, including in the form of co-ordination with the authorities of the State or local self-government, at state or municipal enterprises, in institutions, institutions, organizations, in military formations, to engage not only his subordinates, but also managers or other officials of lower-level public authorities who are in service dependence on him during working hours. The proposed legislative initiative is aimed at preventing the use of the resources of these bodies and the position of duty-holders in the course of the campaign for any candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. Such a prohibition is caused by the need to create proper legal conditions for the free choice of voters during the election of the Head of State. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u20	Please finish, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u21	I agree with the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office, which made only one comment to this bill, that in article 56, 64 replace the notion of “State authorities” with the notion of “State authorities”. So I agree with that, you can do these substitutions under the transcript and vote this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Upper Sergey Petrovich, please conclude the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u23	Honorary Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building of Local Self-Government, discussed on 18 March 2009 a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Mishchenk Sergey Grigorovovich. [[on the limitation of pre-election agitation]] [[Registration number 3529]] The draft law proposes to prohibit a candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, who holds office, including by combining himself with the authorities of the State or local authorities, in state or municipal enterprises, in institutions, institutions, organizations, in military formations, to involve not only persons under his authority, as provided for in the current Ukrainian law on the election of the President of Ukraine, but also managers or other officials of the lower-level public authorities. The bill also proposes to reconcile certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Presidential Elections on limited conduct of electoral agitation. The conclusions reached by the committee on the bill were considered. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy believes that the bill does not conflict with the Constitution and that it is appropriate to accept it as a basis for Parliament's first reading. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues has decided that the bill has no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget or on its implementation during the current budget period. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes specific remarks to the bill and believes that the first reading may be based on the comments and suggestions made. Therefore, the committee at its meeting decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis for its first reading. The draft regulation is submitted to Parliament for its consideration. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u24	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? If there is, please sign in. Please put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Ruslan Knazević, faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u25	Dear Head, my dear colleagues, in fact, it seems to me that there is something to discuss, because we are not looking at a passing bill, and we have finally returned after 2004 to the possibility of amending the current Law on the Elections of the President of Ukraine, which remained in the edition of the second round of 2004. [[I'm calling your attention for a minute.]] And it's a good start that we're finally looking at a kind of bill that envisions the national, national elections of the President of Ukraine. And there's our good will, and I see most of it in the House to improve this bill, because I think that whoever votes for the improvement of the law in force knows exactly what he's doing is making a choice in favor of the national, national elections and he's definitely not going to have his hand back to vote for any other changes in the way the President is elected. Instead, I point out that this bill does not essentially solve the issue, because a valid law requires substantial improvements and reforms. We have all survived in 2004, and we recall that there is a report by the OSCE mission, which in its final resolution urgently requires Ukraine, in keeping with its international legal obligations, to make fundamental changes to the current law on the election of the President, and I think it is today's vote that we will begin this work. I do hope, however, that we will take the decision made by the Head of the Supreme Council, where, in addition to defining the date of the elections, there are points on the need for a certain time frame to improve the proper legislative basis for the election of the President, to bring it into line with the national electoral legislation, as well as the Law on the State Register of Voters, because the third paragraph says that, by improving the legislation and amending the Budget Act, we can apply for the first time in these elections the State Register of Elections and properly prepare the legislative base that needs to be decided, but has been waiting for its time since 2004. I understand that in Ukrainian realities there is such a political tradition that we go back to electoral legislation just before the elections, but hopefully in this situation it's a better option than ever.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u26	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u27	And we will have plenty of time not only to make decisions about the election date, but also to improve the electoral legislation in force on the President's election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u28	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Prepare Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u29	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Vladimir Yavorowski. This bill, introduced by our colleague, appears to me as a bill of warning, which gives some kind of signal to Ukrainian society. There's a problem, and he's trying to answer that problem, although, frankly, the whole presidential election bill obviously needs a fundamental approach. I'm a major who's gone through five major districts and someone, and I know very well what an administrative resource is; what it is like to go with you or to go with you, say, in 89 and 90, the secretary of the Paradise Party or today, when someone goes there, is out of power. I also remember the legendary 100th constituency that was celebrated by the fact that it was shot in 2004, and I had to spray the vault with four o’clock ballots so that people could vote. And what then was produced by the local authorities of Korovograd in order to actually pull the votes, let's say, not on Yushchenka, but on another candidate, the same Yanukovich. Because of this, this bill seems to me to be very timely and, indeed, very necessary. And in this case, it's not about Yashchenk. The point is that this bill must be about the president. Because perhaps the biggest disaster we have today is every election, it is necessarily being modified in some new version of the administrative resource, which, of course, always almost always distorts the objective choice of the Ukrainian people. Because of this, I would like to thank our colleague – Mishchenkovi – for his courage to bring this subject into Ukrainian legislation. We'll back him up. I think, again, what I'd like to ask Mishchenka is just the first "A." We need to take a fundamental approach to this bill so that we are not in the last hours, as it has often been.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u30	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u31	Two hours before the presidential election, we immediately make some amendments to the bill. We have to do this now, there's first reading, the second reading can be amended. The Yulia Timoshenko Block fully supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u32	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u33	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, I think we're looking at this bill in time, considering at least that it's about restrictions on the conduct of electoral agitation. And the election campaign hasn't started yet. I'm sorry, but the campaign's already gone. In the streets, here and there, the networks, the billboards with, excuse me, the physionomies that promote themselves, it's not clear what, because there's no election yet. I mean, you'd better take that money, spend it at the hospital, go to kindergartens, take care of the kids. I think it would be a lot more beneficial for society than every 100 meters in a election campaign that hasn't started yet, and here and there we see all kinds of slogans, and we're lying. And that's why I think it's time enough, once again, to say that this bill is timely, and in view of this allowing myself to read one paragraph from the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which, I think, in its use, this idea, was much, much better-looking then. I will read: “In connection with the changes proposed in the draft, we believe that changes should also be made to article 64, section 1, paragraph 2, of the law, which provides that officials and officials of the executive and local self-government authorities are prohibited from participating in the pre-election campaign, by extending the prohibition to participate in the pre-election campaign of officials and officials of all public authorities.” If this is included in the bill, it will be more qualitative, because then it will not allow for the purposeless use of budget funds at all levels, because the authorities of the state have to do their functions, not the organization of the electoral campaign, maybe the person they support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, registration number 3529. [[on the limitation of pre-election agitation]] [[16.29:35]] For-360 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now pay attention! We now have to consider the inclusion in the agenda of a series of bills, and the bills that we will include in the agenda and the decisions of the committees we will consider. At the same time, we agreed that we would consider a draft decree on the 75th anniversary of the Stahan movement and the 20th anniversary of the Ukrainian People's Movement. So as for the 75th anniversary of the Stahanov movement, it's in the order of the day session, it doesn't have to be included, but as for the ruling of the 20th anniversary of the Ukrainian People's Movement, it has to be included in the agenda first. So I'm asking you not to think about it. Dear colleagues! I am now asking for your consideration of the proposal, please note, on the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine. [[4503]] Just putting it in the agenda so the committee can work with it more quickly. Please vote. Dear colleagues! It's about getting into the daytime, it's about spending. And everything else. [[16:31:14]] For 184 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 148, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" – 16, communists – 0, "Club of Lithuania" – 20. Now, here we go, your honors, about the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. [[Registration number 4522]] On the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine. For inclusion in the agenda, please note. [[on reducing the negative impact of the global financial and economic crisis on the domestic oil and chemical sector]] [[Registration number 4522]] Dear colleagues! On inclusion, we vote. [[16:32:17]] For-170. The decision is not taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[concerning the normalization of the composition of the control]] [[Registration number 4127]] Please vote. [[16:32:58]] For-48 The decision is not taken. For inclusion in the agenda of the Act on the Territorial System of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4182]] Please vote. [[16:33:26]] For-36 The decision is not taken. To include in the agenda the Act on Amendments to Certain Privatisation Laws on the Responsibility of Buyers of Privatization Objects. [[Registration number 4275]] Please vote. [[16:33:59]] For 226 Questions are included in the agenda. May I have your attention, please? The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko” - 149, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 31, Communists – 26, “Clocus of Lithuania” – 20. On the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on the return to state ownership of the entire property complex of society with limited responsibility for the "Herson Machine Plant". [[Registration number 4530]] I'd like to make a statement. [[16:34:49]] For 203 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 153, Our Ukraine-People's Self-Defense - 23, Communists - 27, Litvina Block - 0. On the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on increasing criminal responsibility for certain crimes]] [[Registration number 4432]] Please vote. [[16:35:32]] For-63 The decision is not taken. To include in the agenda a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning copyright and adjacent rights. [[Registration number 4073]] [[16:36:01]] For 181 The decision is not taken. For inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. [[on the extension of the Law also to coal miners and wasteland]] [[Registration number 4314]] Please vote. [[16:36:41]] For-188. The decision is not taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. [[on the granting of martial law status to the inhabitants of the besieged Sevastopol]] [[Registration number 4388]] Please vote. [[16:37:22]] For-189 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party - 138, Block Timoshenko - 2, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense - 3, Communists - 26, Block of Lithuania - 20. In order to include in the agenda the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On Prior Action to Prevent the Negative Consequences of the Financial Crisis and to Amend Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine". [[on the promotion of enterprises of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State]] [[Registration number 4477]] Please vote for inclusion in the order of the day. [[16:38:17]] For-48 The decision is not taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Act of Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the simplification of the mechanism for the State registration of end-of-householding entities. [[Registration number 4286]] For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[16:38:50]] For 369 We turned it on, the committee looked at it, so we're ready and we can look at it now. Who will report this bill? There is a committee decision on the same subject. Yes. From the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy. Well, let's put it off now. We're going to put the reporter in the daytime order. I am now voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to promote entrepreneurial activity. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:39:59]] For 379 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee has considered this bill. Mr. Sergey Grigorovitch, are you ready to report? Well, it's the committee responsible for legal policy. Project authors, respectable colleagues, please don't burn. The authors of the project are Portnov and Lavrinovich. Huh? What's the last one? Aah! I'm sorry, Your Honor, we haven't yet voted in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code on Moral Damage Compensation. [[Registration number 4332]] Please vote. [[16:41:16]] For 327 Decision taken. Reporter. What? The reporter is the head of the Committee of the Philippines. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Bill No. 4332, introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Lavrinović and Portni, proposes to amend Ukraine’s Civil Code on Moral Damage. Ukraine’s civil code of action has maintained a general approach in the Soviet Civil Code of 1963. The present state of social relations calls for qualitatively new approaches to addressing and redressing the question of the extent of moral damage. The need for changes to the current legislation of Ukraine is also demonstrated by the case law, which, because of the lack of clear regulation, the issue of damages for moral damage is characterized by a lack of single criteria and a lack of agreement, often by the reciprocality of decisions taken. The project, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposes to amend the moral compensation mechanism enshrined in the Civil Code. Article 23 of the Civil Code provides for amendments to the Civil Code, and it is proposed to establish that, in determining the extent of moral harm, the nature of the offence, the status of the person to whom such harm is caused, the nature and manner of spreading the knowledge of false information, and other circumstances that are essential. In contrast with the current Civil Code of Ukraine, the bill further suggests that moral damage to honour, dignity, and business reputation may be affected by the spread of false information. In general, it can be concluded that the position of the drafters is aimed at establishing clear criteria that should be taken into account by the court in determining the level of moral damage, to simplify the process of proof of the guilt of the person who has caused such damage and to deprive it of its ability to avoid liability because of the confusion of the provisions of the law in force. The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting considered the bill, considered it to be one aimed at improving the legal regulation of the mechanism for compensation of moral damage, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and as a result of the first reading. Dear colleagues, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, no objection? Who insists on the discussion? Please sign up for the bill. Please state the names of the national deputies. Catherine Samuel gives Adam Martinyuk the right. Adam Martinyuk, please. Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, I have sighed, because I would suggest not to uphold this law, and Catherine Seminovna pressed the law support button, so I sighed. Now, let me explain my position. Dear colleagues, some of you here in the hall are present, who are very excited and pleased, regretting that there are no media representatives here, but under their influence they pressed the buttons when the laws in force took that rule down. That's what we had. But since this was primarily the case with the media, under the influence of the media, the MPs went to what they had taken from the legislative acts, from the Criminal Code, from the Civil Code, and from other codes, this rule, because the first thing they did was that the dissemination of known false information was, of course, a proponent of tautology, of the media. I don't know why the drafters of the bill, what they're guided by, are now going back to the standard that already existed. There is no doubt that the media sometimes allow themselves more than they can be done, but if we have once refused to punish them for this, I think we have absolutely no reason to go back to what we have been through with you. So let's please put it in the agenda, talk about it, and forget about it, let's do the norm that's been in place until now. I don't think any of you want to order the media. Think about how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u38	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I'm one of those Ukrainian national MPs who think that anyone, any citizen of Ukraine or he's the media, or he's not the media, should be responsible for what he does with his black mouth. I especially refer to those Ukrainian national deputies, such as Vladimir Alexanderovich Yavorowski, who passed the Majorate on more than one occasion, as well as those false newspapers that are not in the wild, and that are published by someone; remember those orderly articles in the newspapers where you were burned, mixing with the swamp not only your honest name, but the honest name of your family, loved ones, children; where there was no business available, and so forth. Eventually, we have to put our backs on these, so-called, black technologies, or we're going to be talking about them all the time. Here, a respected colleague spoke to me, saying that we had given up something. Nothing like that, remember, because there were no clear criteria for defining moral harm and problems in the courts. Today, this bill clearly sets out the criteria for moral damage and moral damage. And then you tell me, and how in kilograms, in centrifuges, in liters, in tons can you determine the damage to the nervous system? And when you have to make excuses, when you have to walk and say that it was true when you have your back sneezing and pointing fingers at you. We have to end this in the end. The currentity of this bill is high because we are ahead of all elections there. We should know clearly: there are rules of conduct, there are moral standards. Those who do not adhere to moral standards must be protected by law. And let's stop talking about journalists, about the press. We know that there are honest journalists, there are fair journalists, and there are simply “buyers”. That's the bill against them and it's directed at them. Support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u40	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, why do we not take into account that moral damage can be far greater for a decent person than it is for a physical person? I am absolutely in agreement with Jaroslav Suhi. Why do we view moral damage as a secondary thing? Maybe for someone, it's junk, I'm sorry, and for someone, it's heart attacks, strokes, nerves, breakdowns, that kind of thing. First position. The other one. I understand that I don't have to, let's say, do the offensive or the aggression about the media. But I don't understand why this is all about the media. There is an extension: including the way false information is disseminated. What, though, is it that a politician who spreads false information deliberately offends, humiliates, or humiliates another person that he is a media medium? What if it's not a politician and the factory manager is treating his subordinate? Why is the media here? Second position. And the third moment. What don't I like? I do not like the fact that the subject of the legislative initiative proposes that the amount of compensation should be determined by the court, depending on the nature of the offence, rather than the like, of the status of the person. So tell me, and why an offended teacher should be compensated, his moral damage is less than that of a deputy. I don't get it. I propose that the person’s status be thrown out, since no matter who works, his moral damage to him personally, to him personally, his personal health can be much more serious and painful than that of a fat MP, politician, or minister. So if you take these three positions, three sentences, I think you can support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's decision and the committee's proposal is to base this document. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Civil Code to compensate for moral harm for its adoption as a basis. [[Registration number 4332]] [[16:51:20]] For 337 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on simplifying the State registration mechanism for the cessation of economic operators is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4286]] The rapporteur is the head of the Royal Natalia Yuriovna Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u43	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You are invited to consider a bill simplifying the liquidation of the business. Such procedures are now too complex for business and, therefore, many business entities that have stopped their activities since 1 July 2004 have not yet entered into the liquidation register and the record of State registration has not yet been discontinued. It is clear that this situation is abnormal, and today it requires a legislative settlement. The draft law gives the State registrar the right to conduct a simplified procedure for the State registration of termination without the filing of a number of documents: liquidation balance, liquidation commission act, original documents. This requires changes to the Ukrainian Civil and Economic Code. It is also envisaged to amend the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. The bill proposes to complete the process of incorporating legal and natural persons registered before 1 July 2004 into the Single State Register, which will enable us to complete and complete the register. We all understand what is important because it is from the register that an entrepreneur can get information about the status of another business. Such information is an important element of protection. In our view, a number of legislative initiatives in this bill need to be finalized. And in the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the first reading could provide a basis for the project. We also believe that there is a need for a simplified process of cessation of the legal person so far not being accompanied by simplification of the order of termination itself, which would be useful in improving the effectiveness of the proposed measures. The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise proposes to adopt the bill on the basis of the comments and proposals made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u44	Yes, dear colleagues, the report is perfect. Please sign up for this discussion. Please show the names of the national deputies who signed up for the performance on the board. Xenia Leapina, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u45	Thank you, Your Honor. Xenia Lapina, group “For Ukraine”. I point out that the problem that this law has to solve is really, really acute. Today we have a discrepancy in the register, where people and businesses are counted and real-time businesses. And that can be done with different kinds of manipulations, in particular, and re-entry, and on the other hand, tax evasion. But I want to point out that this law has to be adopted solely as a basis, because there are issues that need to be added to the second reading. By simplifying the order of liquidation, we have no right to forget about creditors' rights, because that way we can register enterprises and thereby violate the rights of others. I mean, we need to simplify with a big, big mind. So I invite my colleagues to vote on it as a basis and to work actively for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u46	Thank you. Sergei Tereshuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have a strange situation that today has become easier to register than to close. And if an enterprise can't be closed, bring it to the State Register, it creates a lot of problems for the founders of an enterprise: the printing problem, the problem with the reporting forms. It's a huge problem for statistical authorities, it's a problem for government administrations. I fully support my colleague Laupin: I need to be accepted in the first reading, then work with a view to avoiding problems that may arise as a result of being expelled from the State Register. First of all, consider creditors’ claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. The committee's proposal is to adopt this document as a basis. I am voting on a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to simplify the State registration mechanism for the adoption of the latter, registration number 4286. [[16:56:51]] For 379 Decision taken. And now, honourable colleagues, it's being announced. May I have your attention, please? draft decree on the preparation and marking of the 75th anniversary of the stohanov movement. [[Registration number 3169]] People's deputy of Kilinkarov, please. Please prepare, we'll put the inclusion to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u49	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! For your consideration, a draft decree for the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the Stahanov movement is proposed. I should like to point out immediately that the very idea of such a decree was based on the fact that, at the celebration of the day of the city where the various political parties were present, the initiative from below was the basis for today's decision to be considered by the Supreme Council. The draft regulation itself envisages and is primarily a recommendation for the Cabinet of Ministers, for the heads of administration, for local authorities, to develop appropriate activities to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the Stahanov movement. Given the historic importance of this event for Donbass and Ukraine as a whole, as well as the significant role of Stahanov's traditions in the upbringing of young people and the training of future workers, we believe it is possible to recommend that you vote in favour of this draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u50	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss a bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u51	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u52	You don't? Please note, I am voting on the proposal for a draft decision on the preparation and marking of the 75th anniversary of the Stahanov movement. [[Registration number 3169]] Please vote. [[16:59:04]] For 342 We took it as a foundation. Now, if there's no objection, I'm voting on a draft ruling as a ruling. About the preparation and marking of the 75th anniversary of the Stahanov movement. [[Registration number 3169]] Please vote. [[16:59:37]] For 336 I'll take the order. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 167, “Timoshenko Yulia Block” – 122, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” – 0, Communist faction – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. And now, dear colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft decree marking the 20th anniversary of the creation of the People's Movement of Ukraine for reconstruction. [[Registration number 4272]] [[17:00:24]] For 203 The decision is not taken. We didn't make it. Please, I will re-vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of Act 4272. [[17:00:51]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, “Timoshenko Block” – 151, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 63, Communist faction and “Litvina Block” – 0. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have exhausted the list of issues, the consideration of issues that are scheduled for Tuesday, I now propose that we consider the inclusion in the agenda, just the inclusion in the agenda, of those bills that we should consider tomorrow in the agenda so that the committees can work. The point is, dear colleagues, the schedule for the week has been confirmed for you and me. Tell me, please, what difference does it make if we put these questions into the agenda today, what difference does it make? You need to have a reporter for the ratification, there are no reporters. The point is, we could look at other questions, but we didn't invite them. So I'm going to put to the vote the proposal for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider now the inclusion in the agenda of the bill that we were going to decide tomorrow in the agenda. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. It's a package of bills. [[17:02:50]] For-174 The decision is not taken. In view of the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has considered all the issues set out in the schedule for today, there is good reason for the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please cancel. What? Yes, please, you didn't hand out the documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u53	One more minute, respectable people's deputies! Another bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u54	I didn't close, I canceled the vote unclosed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u55	They didn't vote. Well, one bill to support entrepreneurs, please, five minutes to work. Dear colleagues! 4581.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u56	May I have your attention, please? Natalie Juryovn, your honor, we have included with you the daily Draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on facilitating entrepreneurship. [[4581]] Let's take a look at it and that's it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u57	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! 5 minutes' work of the Supreme Council for Entrepreneurs. A favourable business climate around the world is considered an absolute norm. Unfortunately, we are rolling in all ratings year after year, and now Ukraine has 145 seats on business accessibility in Ukraine. We therefore believe that such bills, which today can support our business in times of crisis, create conditions for support and development, must be adopted and must be tackled in a comprehensive manner, counter-crisis tasks related to facilitating business. We therefore propose, in particular, to facilitate the start-up of the business and to make the statutory fund today, not in the amount of 100 minimum wages, but in the amount of one minimum wage. Requirements for the issuance of permit documents to be reduced, issued within 10 days, to adopt the principle of tacit consent. If the official is currently delaying the issuance of permits and does not report a refusal, business activities may be carried out without obtaining documents. Improves the business climate in the area of licensing and provides that the licensing of individual business activities will be introduced only if the regulatory mechanisms defined by the relevant law are insufficient. Cancels the licensing of economic activities that are not part of the basic principles of licensing policies, do not endanger the lives and health of citizens, but also the environment and security of the State. Such activities include the wholesale trade in seeds and the provision of social services and the reselling of art items. The bill also addresses a number of issues related to the rental of public and utility property. This week, representatives of the committee visited Lviv, Harikov, Lugansk and all around the world are raising problems for themselves - this is the lawlessness of local authorities on the principle of renting public and utility property. The Committee has considered the bill and proposes to adopt it as a whole on both first and second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! Shall we discuss it? Please sign up if there is. Kseniya Lapina faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u59	Thank you, colleagues! Kseniya Liapina group “For Ukraine”. I urge all my colleagues to support this bill, both in the first reading and in general, because it actually duplicates that bill, which has become a victim of political misunderstandings here, and has been failed completely without justification, even though it has been finalized perfectly to be adopted in general. However, I want to pay attention and very much ask all my colleagues to vote not only for this bill, but to demand the introduction of a bill on a moratorium on taxes and to support the bill we have passed and to vote on a separate bill on a moratorium on checks, because there is a rule on moratoriums, but unfortunately it does not cover all cases. In addition, there is a decree that must correct what the government has done today without the decision of the Supreme Council, imposing an additional pension on the subjects of the smallest business. You and I can correct this action of a government that is not legal. I'm asking you to also support these decisions unanimously, and then we'll do something for small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u60	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u61	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The project is proposed to reduce the statutory capital requirements for companies with the aim of simplifying the start-up of business in order to improve the order of issuance of documents of a permissive nature, the project envisages the establishment of basic requirements for time frames and the mechanism for the issuance of such documents. Such standards will contribute to the involvement of citizens in entrepreneurial activities and minimize their costs when initiating and carrying out economic activities. The project also proposes legislative consolidation of the long-term rental of state and municipal property for at least five years. Such changes will contribute to the efficient use of property objects while at the same time allowing business motivation to be maintained for business activity and the filling of government and local budgets. In addition, the bill aims at reducing the number of commercial activities subject to licensing, providing for the lifting of licences for only those activities that do not violate the basic principles of public policy in the field of licensing, without endangering the life and health of citizens, the environment and the security of the State. It is possible to introduce unlimited licensing practices. At the same time, for individual activities, the government may set licensing terms, but they should not be less than five years old. And the Fire Safety Act proposes to rule out corruption, according to which the financial and material and technical security of the State Fire Protection, the construction of its facilities is done on the basis of donations made by legal persons and citizens. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u62	Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction. Prepare Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, especially those who will press the buttons for this bill, please look, I'll try to formulate in time why it's not worth voting for right now, and you'll think about what we're going to do if we adopt this bill. Another point would have been if this bill had been what a colleague of Leapin Xenius had been talking about. In fact, if there was a tax difference and a fight, if it were to cancel the shameful pension contributions that we've set up, just think about it, instead of the law. The Minister's office was illegally installed. What is proposed in this bill? It's proposed in this bill, first of all, licenses to be issued forever. If you are licensed, you will live with her for the rest of your life and work in the field of business for which you have obtained your license. And there won't be any licenses in large numbers, because think about it, please get out of the license. Please wait for the development, testing, production, operation of vehicles, spacecraft and their components, terrestrial space infrastructure and components. Nuclear fuel can now be disposed of without any license. Designing new reconstructions of existing melioritative systems, you can build a melioration without a license, just like you want to, and sink our state. Without a license, you can engage in professional activities in the field of social services. Please, anyone who wants to provide social services. Design, think, design, and carry out conservation, restoration, rehabilitation, museum, repair, and memorial work. So any history and culture that's the biggest acquisition of any society right now doesn't need a license to be over them.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u64	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u65	It's a big deal to destroy them. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is a limit to what is acceptable. I don't think you'd dare vote for everything to be allowed to do even the so-called little business. By no means can this law be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u66	Oleg Laszko, faction of the “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u67	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. On the board it's written that I'm against this bill, but I would really like to support this bill to be adopted on the first reading, because this bill, based on the authorship of our colleagues in Natalia Royal, Mikli Tomenka and others, solves, simplifies business in our country, liberalizes business licensing, and so on. That is, the government under the leadership of Yulia Timoshenko has repeatedly communicated with business and aims to re-engage with this business. Therefore, I think that this bill should necessarily be voted on, but at the same time it should take into account the comments made by colleagues before the bill. The main thing is to remove, on the one hand, the obstacles put by the State in the way of small, medium or large business; on the other hand, not to suffer public interests, such as the interests of the budget, the filling of the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, the draft law has been discussed. [[Registration number 4581]] One minute is a lineup, Jaroslav Suhi, before the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, here in this session room just recently, a month ago, we worked on a committee and passed a bill that finally introduced a rule on licensing for a certain kind of economic activity, namely the production and implementation of aviation and space engines. You can't do that. This bill, it's adventurous, it's written and executed in a jump to report to a small business that the government cares about. Listen, support in crisis conditions because of the increase in tax pressure that is currently taking place is crippling all the good intentions that are set out in this bill. And once again, with regard to the silent consent of obtaining permission for some kind of economic activity, this is completely absurd, because we can really agree on the big problems that will be associated with the threat of a technological catastrophe. I have in my hands a letter from Zaporozhye business, a company called Nika, which clearly addresses the issue and demands that the increase in tax pressure on pension insurance be lifted. It's their business. This bill cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-06-02-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to promote entrepreneurial activity. Then, when preparing for the second reading, you will have to consider a number of suggestions that have just been made. [[17:16:13]] For 290 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 96, Block Timoshenko – 138, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 0, Communists – 0. "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" – 37, sorry, Communists – 0, "Block of Lithuania" – 19. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our plenary work at 10 o'clock on Wednesday.
