ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats so that we can begin our sessions. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. And I'm asking you, Secretariat, to clean up the rostrum, please. I'm saying that, that's not how it's done. If that is the case at home, respectable fellow members of the national parliaments do so, I do not think that this is happening; they will thank the family. Please, Secretariat, clean up in the rostrum. I'm the secretary, please, uh, can you get the papers to come in or not? Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[Registration of Ukrainian National Deputies]] [[11:32:42]] Cards were registered in the 442 national deputies’ session hall. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, despite the different kinds of political opposition here, allow me to welcome the national deputies of Ukraine, Demenka Mikola Ivanovich, Yatsubu Vladimir Grigorovovich, with his birthday and to wish him good health, all kinds of success. In accordance with part eight of article 19 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the initiative of 151 Ukrainian national deputies was registered, which is consistent with the requirements of part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the holding of an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Conciliation Board established a meeting schedule and agreed upon the order of our work. The procedure is to review the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009; the second question is the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009; and some other laws of Ukraine; and the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Elections of the President of Ukraine; and the fourth issue is the release and appointment of ministers, as well as leaders of central executive bodies. [[on the size of the subsistence minimum and the size of the minimum wage]] [[Registration number 4741]] We have agreed on such a proposal that we will now approve the meeting schedule with you, and I will put this proposal to a four-point vote, and I will consider the procedure after the approval will also lead to your knowledge. I'll bet you a vote on the approval of the meeting schedule for today. Please vote. [[11:35:42]] For 407 Decision taken. Such a procedure, respected colleagues, is proposed. We're looking at the first question about living minimum, minimum wage. Then we turn to the next question, dealing with the second question. After consideration of the third issue, a 30-minute recess will be announced for consultations prior to consideration of personnel matters. Is there no objection? Then we have every reason to move on to the subject. At the same time, I want to say that I read the slogan: “Litwin! Ministers will wait, first help people!" That's what I'm trying to say, dear colleagues, to those who wrote this slogan. First, people were robbed, and now they are asking Lithuania to help. [[Flushing]] I think Lithuania needs a country, and I don't think it's appropriate to do that, dear colleagues. Keep anything normal in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's being announced. A bill of law is being tabled. Attention, please. on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] [[Registration number 4557]] Please report from the committee, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 30 June this year, discussed the preparation for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 on the size of living minimum and the size of minimum wage paid by National Deputy Papiev at registration number 4557 from 22.06.2009. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the bill as a basis for its plenary session on June 25, this year. On June 30, 2009, no proposals were made by law enforcement entities. In view of the fact that the adoption of the bill would require an increase of 37.3 billion dollars from the State budget and the drafter of the bill, it was not proposed to amend article 1 and the amendments to the law concerning changes in the State Budget and Inter-Budget Transfers, the adoption of such a bill would lead to a balancing of the budget indicators, which would further complicate the fiscal situation in a financial crisis. The Committee on Budget Affairs therefore adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to set up a working group to prepare for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2009 in the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Budget Affairs, authorized representatives of the deputy factions and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] The draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue is registered. The decision should be supplemented by provisions on the appointment of the working group’s joints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we agreed that this procedure would be a vote for this bill. May I have your attention, please? I will first put to the vote not a committee proposal, but a proposal of this content: the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill of a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] In case there's any attention, please! If this proposal is not supported, then I will put to the vote a second proposal to the committee: to create a working group and to work on it, taking into account the recommendations of the working group and the Cabinet of Ministers and the initiators of this bill. No warning? I mean, the document was handed out a long time ago. Dear colleagues, you can't give it away twice. Please calm down. Dear colleagues, please calm down. So I put to the vote, please note, the adoption of draft law, registration number 4557, on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2009 as a whole. [[on the minimum cost of living and the minimum wage]] Please vote. [[11:41:14]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 172, Timoshenko Yulia Block - 2, Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense – 9, Communists – 27, Litvina Block – 1, non-fractional – 1. Now I'm betting on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down. Please. I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 4557-p, on the establishment of a working group to prepare for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2009 (for living minimum and minimum wage). I'm asking you naked. Take it off the vote. Please, Baby. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u4	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, request that this draft Decision be supplemented by a proposal made by the committee to appoint a working group co-chaired by the Cabinet of Ministers of Economy of Danishin Bogdan Mihajlovich and by the deputies, well, my candidacy was proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u5	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u6	But please choose someone else as co-chairs of the task force. Because we're creating a working group and we're not specifying the heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u7	Danilishin is an understandable name. What's the other name?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u8	They offered Lyashka. But I'm not comfortable talking about myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u9	Aah!? Alexander Sergiyovich,! Alexander Ephraim’s microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u10	Actually, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have received an answer to the slogan that hangs behind your back. After all, you have ministers in the first row, and people remain in the second row. Now, with regard to our colleague's proposal here in this room, well, it doesn't make any sense. We have passed this law, we have insisted that this law be carried out to give people what they have taken away from the Government in the last six months, together with the coalition, and you are now inviting representatives from the Government and representatives of the coalition to be the head of this commission. Have a conscience! Then at least make Nikolai Janović Azarov a head.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote on acceptance as a basis, then those proposals that were put to the vote. I agree here, and I think that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should support Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov to be his co-head. Dear colleagues, to have three co-heads, including, and above all, the initiators of this bill. Now, about the replica that sounded. I want to say to people that it is not a law that requires a minimum of living and minimum wage, and that the second law is necessary to finance the Euro-2012, because everyone has already found their place there. And please don't blame me for anything you can't blame me for. [[Applause]] So this is a gateway to reporting to people. And let's work quietly. You don't have to make accusations. I'm voting on the adoption of the bill, registration number 4557. Please vote. It's a draft decision, to be exact. Based on the base. [[11:45.]] For 410 As a basis, thank you. Now for the offer. The heads of the working group. May I have your attention, please? By the alphabet. Clearly, Azarov. Azarov, Danišin, Laško are co-chairs of the commission. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:45:36]] For 396 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, what are some other warnings about this project? Can we put this whole thing to a vote? I am voting on the adoption of a draft regulation as a whole, on the creation of a working group to prepare for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2009 on the size of the living minimum and the size of the minimum wage. [[Registration number 4557-p]] Please vote. [[11:46:23]] For 408 Decision taken. Thank you. Let us turn to the second question, namely: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4735, 4735-1]] Reporters: Ukrainian National Deputies Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian National Deputy Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. What, what?
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u12	Then I would ask my colleague to withdraw this bill from Cosemiakina. Are you filming? Ladies and gentlemen, Yuri Poluniev is withdrawing his bill. So let's go to Bill 4735-1, reporter Andrew Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin. Correspondent is the deputy head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Lásko Oleg Valeriyovich. We've agreed, Your Honor, on such a procedure. The report, the report, then the position of the government and every faction. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, this is where I was told that we should put to the vote a motion to consider this bill on a simplified basis. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please support, with a reduced procedure. [[11:48:24]] For 202 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's get to the bottom of the matter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u13	Honourable Head, Honorary Fellows, Ukraine's Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's 2009 State Budget Act and the National Bank of Ukraine have been developed to ensure the independent implementation of the preparations and the final stage of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine. In today’s law, the stated expenses are incurred at the expense of the stable fund. Taking into account that there are fairly high risks of filling the stabilisation fund, particularly due to under-receiving revenues from privatization, as well as from the road fund, which also provides for expenditure to be spent on preparation for the Euro-2012 road construction project, the bill proposes full-scale expenditure and, at such an important level, direct allocation to Ukraine in a separate budget programme. It is proposed to channel 9.8 billion dollars from excess income over the National Bank’s expenditure. According to article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine, the National Bank makes a positive difference next year in the case of overexpenditure. The same rule is laid down in the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income. In doing so, economic operators properly collect and pay their income tax in a quarterly manner that ensures a balanced performance of the income budget. This is not the norm for the National Bank of Ukraine. At the same time, in December 2008 and January 2009, the National Bank has already calculated the total amount of overrun for 2008, which is almost 200 billion dollars. Since the National Bank is a creditor to banks and is organizing a refinancing system from October 2008 through May 2009, banks of Ukraine were granted loans to support their liquidity of about 63 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u14	Let me finish the argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u15	At a rate of 12-18 percent. In addition, the Ministry of Finance pays the National Bank quarterly the proceeds of domestic government bonds. Taking into account the changes mentioned above in the draft State Budget Act 2009 it is proposed to provide for a rule that the National Bank of Ukraine in 2009 introduces an additional quarterly payment of a positive difference to the State budget, in addition to the positive difference resulting from over-expenditures over the expenditure of the National Bank of Ukraine in 2008. It is also proposed to introduce an appropriate standard in the Ukrainian National Bank Act. Additional revenue from the National Bank of 9.8 billion dollars is proposed to be added to the state budget special fund and directed to a separate budget programme. The implementation of the state-of-the-art training programme for the final part of the European Championship in 2012 from football, construction, reconstruction, development and maintenance of the road network, including the construction and reconstruction of state-owned and municipal bridges, and the construction of subways in the cities of Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kiev and Kharkiv. In line with legislation, if these costs are not used in full this year, they will be used for this purpose next year. The bill also provides for changes to article 76 of the State Budget Act in agreement with the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget and Finance and Banking, the distribution of the undistributed funds of the Stability Fund. The adoption of this bill will provide a basis for the successful and effective implementation of Ukraine's preparation programme for the Euro-2012 at the highest level. It is proposed that the draft law be adopted in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u16	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Oleg Lazko committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budget Issues considered a bill amending the laws on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2009 and the National Bank of Ukraine, submitted by the People’s Deputies of Kolesnik and Cosmiakin on June 30 at registration number 4735-1. The bill is designed for the immediate financial provision of investment and infrastructure projects related to the preparation and implementation in Ukraine of the final part of the 2012 European Championship from football and the completion of the construction of metropolises in some cities in Ukraine. In order to achieve this goal, it is proposed, inter alia, to increase by 9.8 billion dollars the amount of revenue from over-expenditures over the cost of the National Bank in the amount of advance payments in 2009, with a further focus on the implementation of the State Target Programme for the preparation and implementation of the final part of the 2012 European Championship with football, construction, reconstruction, development and maintenance of the road network, including the construction and reconstruction of public and utility bridges, including the construction of the railway, car and city crossings through the Dnipro River in Kiev amounting to 650 million dollars, as well as the construction of metropolises in the cities of Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kyiv and Kharkiv. In addition, it is proposed that article 34, with the symbol 1, specify that the list of objects, actions, major public budget administrators and the amount of budgetary resources to be allocated to them on the basis of the budget programme indicated, shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of prior agreement and by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget and Finance and Banking. In article 76 of the Budget Act, exclude the provision of the same objective for the purpose of avoiding duplication of expenditure; reduce by 3.5 billion dollars the revenue plan from the excise assembly and import duty, which is aimed at network development and maintenance of the roadways of general use. Amendments to Article 4 of the State Budget Act of Ukraine for 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u18	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u19	and articles 5 of the National Bank of Ukraine Act, which regulate the procedure for the introduction of Natzbank into the State Budget of over-expenditures over-expenditures. As a result of the draft bill, the Committee on Budget Affairs approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft law number 4735-1 as a basis and as a whole as a law. For the transcript, I want to make one point. In paragraph 4 of paragraph 1 on amendments to Article 4 of the State Budget Act, replace the words “by 20 July” with the words “for three working days from the date of entry into force of the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian laws “On the State Budget for Ukraine 2009” and “On the National Bank of Ukraine”. Accordingly, if this bill is adopted, the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, is required to introduce to the text of the law and Appendices the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications for the drafting of the law to be signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. Please support the committee's decision with these clarifications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, report, report completed. Please sign up for the discussion. Two — “for”, two — “against”. It's a recording. Mikola Kulczynski, then Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u21	Please pass the word to the National Deputy of Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u22	National Deputy Arzhewitten, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u23	Stanislav Arzvitin’s “For Ukraine” group. [[Is it on because I can't hear? Is it on? Why isn't it on?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to have a Euro-2012, but let's look at the truth. To what extent do we burn our country to the brink of such standards? First of all, profit-generating is not the goal of the National Bank's activities, as we call for similar changes. The main task of the National Bank is, you know, the stability of the national currency. Please tell us what stability we can talk about today when the National Bank has already purchased 15.5 billion dollars of government securities. We will be considering another bill where under NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” we should also close 18.5 billion with additional securities. Four billion dollars of income over the National Bank's spending has already been used in January. With this bill, we today foresee almost 10 billion of the funds that should be made in 2009 and paid in the 2010 budget to be used today. We put 44 billion in the budget for those troubled banks where people's deposits were dependent, they're also under government securities. Please tell me more than 100 billion dollars if we release unsecured goods, please tell who will need such a Euro-2012? So, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you very much for 100 billion, over 100 billion -- that's almost half of our entire budget. Next. Today's standard is proposed to remove from the National Bank Act, where you and I have accepted that at least 25 percent of the surplus is directed to the Population Guarantee Fund. We're removing this rule today. I'm asking you to think about it. Next. This policy of the National Bank's earnings only causes us to increase the price of loans in the economy. I'll get you statistics. Today, the National Bank’s refinancing rate is 11 per cent, in Europe – 1 per cent, in America – 0.025. Banks are refinanced at 22.5 percent, that's 90 billion. The National Bank is receiving today.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u24	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u25	Today, the National Bank receives 17.5 - 20 percent of its securities from the Cabinet of Ministers. Is that absurd, please? Tell me, please, the 68 billion that the Ukrainian enterprise should pay back today as an external debt, what course will it pay for? Please tell us, what kind of inflation will our country live in? That's why I'm asking you, come to your senses, all the bills lead to crazy inflation and you don't need to talk about Euro-12.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u26	Thank you. Sergey Teryohin, faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u27	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Jane wanted to speak essentially to this bill, but I have to say a few words after the previous one. It would be appropriate to know the head of one of the banking associations, what “bankware” is, and where the incomes of central banks or emission centres are from. Well, it's all right here. The National Bank, by its very nature, can never be a non-profit organization, since the main source of its income is the source of income from the issue of money. We just distribute this issue, as it is written in our legislation, in a way that is better today for fiscal policy. And all of them, those who supported it in the first reading, all knew about it. So, you know, before you talk about accounting here, you need to know that in Ukraine, an account rate is a virtual indicator that has no bearing on the economy except for fines or regulations. So first, let the National Bank move from monetary support policy to inflation policy, and then we'll talk about what the nature of the issue money is going to go to and where it's going to go. That's the first one. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm drawing your attention, and I've just told the Ministry of Finance that in order to keep this law clean, we need not only to change the distribution of article 5, part 3 of article 5 of the Ukrainian National Bank Act, but to put the same formula into the Tax Law, because there will be a conflict of norms. Because these formulas are adequate today both in the National Bank Act and in the Business Income Taxation Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u28	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u29	So once again, in order for a coalition not to arise and not to arise after the bureaucrats of the National Bank not to comply with this law, we need to change this structure, i.e. set up a corresponding part of the Income Taxation Act. The National Bank will then be obliged to finance the budget for the needs identified by the project. Thank you for your attention. On behalf of the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u30	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u31	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable colleagues, it is quite clear that the bill currently under consideration is obviously intended for one purpose, the main task being to distribute half the country's resources. And that's very well understood by those who read this bill, and that's very well understood by those who are involved in this process called Euro-12 preparations. Why, so-called, I'll try to explain right now. What's unpleasant is that it's obviously a central bill today, and the one that was considered before that was just a broad or cover up to now by 300 votes to split the resources into two. I would like to say otherwise that the Block of Lithuania voted in favour of the previous bill for a minimum of living on the first reading to lead it to a condition where it would work if it did not have to trade in air, to trade anything that is not indicated where to take the money. And that's very sad. But I would like to say that the very fact that Ukraine was preparing for Euro-12 was a serious opportunity for our country. Do not cut the window into the society of civilized countries, for normal people walk in the door, not in the window; and do not break the dam anymore. Because when a dam breaks through, it's a flood and a disaster; and really, it's a normal, wide door to join the societies of those nations, those peoples, those states that can and can carry out massive, massive measures. So I would like to insist that this bill is obviously central to today's session, and this bill will lead to the distribution of the country's resources. And we will now, the Block of Lithuania, seriously think about whether it should be supported at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u32	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u33	Dear colleagues will probably need to support this bill, because, despite all the thinking, “Euro-2012” for Ukraine, successful preparations for “Euro-2012” are our international commitments, this is Ukraine's prestige, this, after all, signal, I hope, a positive signal about the exit of the Ukrainian economy from the crisis, this is a positive signal for investors, for the world. But to me, and why I went to this rostrum, I was surprised by the statement by the Head of the Supreme Council about the future of him and the members of his faction of a known scheme for the future of money theft. If, by your analogy, the so-called Euro-2012 preparations stand the interests of any corruption or corruption groups, you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, and you, ladies of honor, should as law-abiding citizens here provide specific data to the Attorney-General's Office, otherwise you use the parliamentary rostrum, using your official position to distribute gossip. [[Applause]] You are the authorities, you are now responsible for the successful preparations for the Euro-2012. We're ready to submit, we're ready to cooperate with you. Now I can't just understand where these rumors come from and what's it coming from? There is, of course, a note. If the National Bank of Ukraine has to count the costs quarterly and the neighborhood doesn't fit, who, would the state then compensate him if he didn't have what to count? We need to think, this is the kind of approach that needs to stabilize the financial and banking system that needs to be consolidated, not to suck up gossip and introduce it into the session room, especially those who are politically and economically responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u34	Finish up. I beg you not to scream, I know what to do. And don't scream, please. Calm down! No one insists on the performance? No, come on. I understand. Arjewitin has already appeared from the factions, so. I mean, the Communist faction didn't take advantage of the right to speak. I asked them. Oh, no? Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Let's get the government now. One minute, the government's offer. Merkovsky Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u35	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, national deputies! The Ministry of Finance is working on the bill. We supported this bill at a meeting of the budget committee yesterday, and we hope that the results of the vote will make it real that we will have a source of funding for the Euro-2012 championship. One thing I would like to say for the transcript is what Terjehochin said, which means, with regard to the correction of the Law on Taxation of Business Income instead of the applicable standard, that we have referred to in Article 5 of the Act on the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support this bill with such changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u36	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, taking into account the proposals made by national deputy Teryohin and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, I put to the vote the proposal of the committee and the proposal of the committee of this content: to adopt as a basis the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2009 and some other laws of Ukraine. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a vote coming! [[12:09:01]] For 373 Decision taken. One minute! Dear colleagues! Decision taken. I have to tell you that I'm done. One minute! I understand everything, but it was the difficult compromise that. One minute, listen up! Listen, please. It was a difficult compromise to unlock the work of the Supreme Council. And I understand colleagues who have asked and asked this question, but what has been decided by the Conciliation Council. And one minute! - Unanimity. I put this proposal to the vote. For 373, the decision is made. A draft Act amending certain legislative acts relating to the election of the President of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 4741]] I understand everything, Your Honor, but once again, I have to tell you that I was forced to set up to unlock the rostrum. All claims to the faction's leadership. [[B in m in s a l in]] I get it, I get it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I understand all this. Sit down, please. Dear colleagues, I understand all this, I understand everything. But once again, I have done the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Conciliation Council. A draft Act amending certain legislative acts relating to the election of the President of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Registration number 4741. And, honourable colleagues who express just indignation, I want to say again, when I announced the meeting schedule and when we approved it, I said how we're going to act. The constitutional majority voted, and now you're talking about breaking the Rules. Well, please, please! Dear colleagues, please calm down, please! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the distinguished radio listeners! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act to amend certain legislative acts relating to the election of the President of Ukraine. Along with colleagues: Aleksandr Lavrinović, Olena Lukas, Roman Zvarič, taking into account the proposals made by Ruslan Knazevic of the faction “Our Ukraine”, we proposed the following philosophy of the bill. We believe that this law must protect every electorate and every vote. That's exactly what the bill was built. The first proposal is to cut the election campaign from 120 days to 90 days. The second position is to reduce the impact of the judicial authorities on the electoral process. The third is to prevent the illegal involvement of law enforcement authorities in procedures related to the election of the President of Ukraine. The law proposes to increase the criminal responsibility of members of the electoral commission for blocking or breaking down the commission’s work. Amendments to the Elections Act are also proposed to comply with the Code of Administrative Judiciality. And the Code of Administrative Justice itself also makes some changes that make it easier to appeal the results of elections or certain election procedures. We are also cut short, and it is suggested that we cut back on court cases. Now the first instance is going to deal with these cases in a two-day period, two days on appeal, and two days on appeal. We are also invited to simplify, significantly simplify, the process around the Central Electoral Commission so that the members of the Central Electoral Commission can work instead of stay at work at night. We are also invited to make changes to the State Register of Voters. The point is that, as you know, the 2006 status is now formed. Over 2 million, actually, changes per year are taking place. In fact, the Central Election Commission has to make up to a few million decisions, which is impossible. So we suggest making appropriate changes and allowing the Central Electoral Commission to set these requirements on its own.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u39	We're going to propose any way you can put a mortgage on the state budget. We don't actually raise, 500,000 is left. We cancel signed letters and resilient certificates in order not to be tempted to falsify the election. We have proposed otherwise to form electoral committees and ensure the right of persons with disabilities as and in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We want to propose a process for the electoral company to become a competition for candidates, not a competition for technology, and so that this law can be demonstrated, this law, we believe, democratizes the conduct of electoral headquarters and presidential candidates. Please support and, if possible, ask about the reduction of the procedure to the second reading, in 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u40	Yes, Your Honor, the report is complete. Please, the committee will be represented by Upper Sergey Petrovich and, at the same time, by Sergei Petrovich, the announcement: there are now committee meetings in the conference room, the committee hearings in the extended version are about, on the issue of Ukrainian-Romanian relations, this is to the knowledge of the Ukrainian national deputies and the journalistic corps. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u41	Honorable Presidency, distinguished national deputies, distinguished voters! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State-owned Construction, Local Self-Government, discussed today July 1st with the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Ukrainian law amending certain legislative acts concerning the election of the President of Ukraine, registration number 4741 of 3006, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputies Lavrinovich, Portnov, Lukas and Zvarič. In order to improve the current drafting of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine, the drafters propose to amend this law separately, as well as the related amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice and the Law of Ukraine on the State Register of Voters. In particular, the project proposes to reduce the electoral process to 90 days, to reorder the formation of district district election committees, to improve the procedures for the prosecution of electoral decision-makers, to eliminate the institution of reinforced certificates and signed letters to support the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine. The committee unanimously supported the draft Law of Ukraine and suggested that it be adopted in the first reading. At the same time, the Committee reviewed its decision of June 23 on the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Presidential Elections Act No. 4440 of 22. On the 05th, filed by the People's Deputy Knazević. The Committee considers that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopts a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain legislative acts, registration number 4741, on the basis that the second reading of the bill should take into account registration number 4440, when preparing for consideration by its Parliament. [[on the election of the President of Ukraine]] Given the relevance of the issue of the improvement of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine and the need for the adoption of the relevant bill during the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u42	Allow me to finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u43	The Committee, pursuant to article 50 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, proposes to the Supreme Council to shorten the deadlines for the submission of comments and proposals to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine and considers it appropriate for the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government to finalize the draft bill, taking into account the comments, proposals by entities of the right to legislative initiative and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the second reading by 9 July. [[on the election of the President of Ukraine]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u44	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we agreed that the faction would not act, it would get the right to speak. This is in line with the Rules. Please put the name of the national MPs on the board. Yuri Miroshnichenko, “Our Ukraine” faction, I apologize to the faction of the Party of the Regions. I don't think I really insulted you. I said I was sorry. And the next one will be Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u45	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, with all due respect for our Ukraine. Dear friends, a very important bill is now under consideration. And I think we should get together today to consider this. Since presidential elections have already determined perhaps a long period of life not only for us as MPs of the people, but probably for both the economy and the social sphere, and for all aspects of the life of our society. How will they go through? What are the rules? Will there be any violations that would have a major impact on the outcome of the elections? Will the legitimate president of Ukraine be elected? These are the questions that depend on what law we will have at the time of the election campaign. The difficult discussion was with the lawyer about how to change the law. It was said that there was an offer to give up resilient coupons, home voting, and so forth. Some will blame us for narrowing the rights of citizens. But the question of legitimacy, the question of not causing the breach, I think it's worth it to take these steps. I fully support the idea of our colleagues working on this bill. I propose, indeed, that we approve of it in the first reading. And on second reading, taking into account all the suggestions, before this session is over, have the law in place so that all candidates and all the subjects of the electoral process know what rules this electoral campaign will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u46	People's MP Pisarenko, faction. Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u47	Olga Bodnar, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. You know, I think that this project is already supported by my previous reporters, and I'm just going to send a proposal to the hall, and I'm going to listen to it so that it's worth accepting on the first reading today. First of all, I like the fact that almost most of this room has been working on it. I support that position, which reduces the electoral process by 90 days, which will ensure the economy of finance and to some extent remove the tension in society. It is a positive rule that the formation of election committees is not only attended by representatives of candidates from the President, but also by representatives of political parties represented in Parliament. This is also a positive nuance of the bill. But we do have some observations and points of debate, so I think this bill should only be adopted in the first reading. First of all, the bill does not clearly state the rules for representation on committees. A chapter on voter registration will have to be reconciled, since we passed the voter registration law on the first reading last week. There is a discussion standard for cleaning signed letters and a standstill of 500,000. I think this pledge is going to have to be discussed and maybe scaled up. I propose from the faction that we support this bill in the first reading, and I also draw your attention, my honourable colleagues and honourable presiding officers, to the fact that we have registered a bill on amendments to the Constitution regarding local elections that would be worth moving from 2010 to 2011. Because today we're forgetting this nuance when we're in the middle of the President's election, we're going to have to form polling stations and committees at local elections. This will bring about a very serious and important disorder.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u48	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u49	and in the election process of the President, and the beginning of the local council elections. Thank you. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u50	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction. The next is Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! The Company's faction will not vote in favour of the project on the basis of the following items. Every time the election of the President approaches, so many words are thrown into the wind in order to improve the law. Elections are ending and the clans are inventing new approaches, in terms of the falsification of elections, which is today the main threat to democracy in Ukraine. If it were to come to a conclusion after each election, the Italian mafia did not serve as a mark for the Ukrainian clans, who forge elections and essentially turned the system into a state system for falsification of elections. And no laws today will change the situation with regard to the use of administrative resources by you, gentlemen. You are thus constantly fighting for who is the head of the district or district administration. You're fighting to falsify the election. You run through laws because it is in the laws that you lay the groundwork for these mechanisms to work. You invent a variety of “worshipers” and under every polling station is a car where your person sits and gives money to those who fake the elections that you tend to do so. You invented cutting-off coupons, and so millions of people drove across Ukraine to fake the election. You invented what you did when millions of people are outside Ukraine and you use their voices. In this draft law, what is harmful and what am I drawing your attention to? Once again, ladies and gentlemen, you are not going to count on the will of the people, because in the law you assume that you no longer intend to have a voter register. And read the last sentence, no matter what you say right now, you wrote: “There will be no voter register.” We will again falsify, and for you who are still trying to listen to what is hanging on your ears today, we are talking about some democratic approaches. So it is obvious that the question is one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u52	Finish up, please. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u53	Oleg Zarubinsky's Block of Lithuania. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, the fact that my very respected predecessors didn't talk about the content of the law, but talked about life in general is perfectly natural in this situation, because today we only got this bill on registration, and it counts, well for those who will read it and who are going to read it, I'll say it's 175 pages. And it is clear that the question of voting today in the first reading and in the second reading, and in general, is simply unrealistic in terms of simply taking the billing work seriously. On the other hand, we totally understand, and the faction of the Lithuanian Block supports that there are some things that are being proposed here that we may have been initiating, but I don't want to talk about it right now, but that's completely objective, it's about reducing the election campaign from 4 months to 90 days. Tell me who needs it today, the voters need a campaign for six months, 120 days no. Clearly, this will be less than the cost. And in general, it seems to us that in preparing for the second reading, we need to think about how to cut costs to this election campaign. It seems to us that this is not the first issue in the area of financing today to be able to cut costs. On the other hand, it's obviously the right thing for us to be able to go to a specific bill today, because in the end, Ukraine is the wrong country that doesn't know when the presidential election is actually going to take place. And what happens is that once again, from the initiative of well-known politicians, these elections will take place on January 17th, and it's a positive thing that gives us the opportunity today in the first reading to give good or give green light to this bill, but very seriously to work on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u54	Yes, dear colleagues, the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" has not exercised the right to speak. Ruslan Knyazevich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u55	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I'm the national MP who had the naivety to submit his version of the People's Deputies Elections Act, the election of the President of Ukraine, and so far it's not like they just didn't see it in the session room, it's not even included in the agenda. Even today, when, in fact, my bill and alternative didn't come to anyone's mind to give me a word. But that's what's called on the conscience of those who are the authors of today's action, because in fact the situation is that my bill passed the committee yesterday, not yesterday, as reported today, but two weeks ago, was a positive conclusion. In fact, the bill can be criticized, and there may be a lot of flaws in any bill, but as a person who survived in 2004 on his own skin in the epicenter of events, the electoral process in the election of the President of Ukraine tried to write a law that could properly hold fair, transparent and objective elections. In view of these circumstances, I still hope that the drafters of the bill, which will be adopted today, will take into account those positive things that can be taken into account in the second reading, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u56	Please finish, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u57	Since I had the opportunity to examine many things, some are included, but many nuances that now seem small are not included. They're going to come out and then someone's going to be very sorry that they wasted that chance today. But I assure you that the devil is always in detail, so that these details are not fatal, and then we will not cause the events that we had in 2004 because of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u58	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Please, Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to support this project by agreeing with a few of the points that have been made today. Thesis one. That under every election, we have a change. It would be very good if there was no need for that. But imagine today, there is an election under a valid law. How can we implement those rules that provide for mandatory decisions by the interdisciplinary commission on public procurement issues so that the Central Election Commission can purchase paper and print a newsletter? Such an organ no longer exists in Ukraine. So we immediately understand that there is a problem that the legislative rules do not create a problem for the prosecutions immediately, because we push those who have to organize the elections for the violation. The other one. We have after the adoption of the previous law, the adopted Code of Administrative Judiciality and its amendment. They don't come together at all, both institutional and essentially in the process. Can we carry out an electoral campaign in this way? Obviously not. Hence, the need for change is evident. As for 120-90 days, the question of relevance, and since the vast majority of those present in this room agreed that it was appropriate to cut down on the company from both the point of view of budget savings and the fact that less of Ukraine's time was strained during the elections. Note that we were given 175. Page 42 of the text of the law. 175 is a complete set of materials. So there is, of course, a volume to read. But if there's interest, I think we can do that. With regard to criticism, we have a register that needs to be clarified. I agree with that, of course, in the state where there is a register today, it does not play a positive role, because there is no real-time way to know exactly who of Ukraine's citizens reached the 18th-year-old who went to a better world that went beyond Ukraine. So to hold an election without further ado, which can only make the organs of the internal affairs of justice, execution of sentences, and military commissioners unrealistic. If we don't, we're actually going to have millions of setbacks. So you have to think about where we've spent so much money on this register, or it has to function in such a way that nothing needs to be clarified, but in order for everything to work in real time, or then you have to look for other ways. I'm sure that every norm there is for us to have an honest competition between candidates and that the sums that will be announced do not give rise to any doubt. Please support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Just a minute. The bill has been concluded, it is clear that it is extremely sensitive, it is clear that its deputies should read it. Unfortunately, we have to agree with my colleague Ruslan Knazević that as in this bill, we have done everything in a closed regime. A document cannot be written taking into account the thinking of a few people, not even the professionals of the highest species. And I suggested, when the idea became public that a few people were working on this document, expanding this working group, including at least factions in this document. That's the first one. And the second. I am convinced that we need to examine this document carefully, including with the participation of the members of the Central Electoral Commission, if we are to come out of what we need to have in common, transparent presidential elections. Unfortunately, I have to tell my colleague Knazevitch that only the questions suggested by the initiators when there is an emergency meeting. Dear colleagues, let's not have a discussion. You're right. But I'm just saying to my colleagues that he didn't realize that there was no ill-intention in the plan of not submitting to his bill. So we can have a clear understanding here. Therefore, honourable colleagues, as we have agreed, I will put to the vote the first proposal for adoption as a basis, and I will put to the vote a second proposal to shorten the drafting of this bill. So I'm voting on the proposal for a draft law, registration number 4741, amending some of the legislative acts on the election of the President of Ukraine, as a basis. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:34:32]] For 367 Decision taken. The decision is made as a basis. The factions? Please. Region Party – 171, “Timoshenko Block” – 152, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” – 24, Communists – 0, “Litvina Block” – 19, non-fractional – 1. Now there was a second proposal that the reporter made, and it was discussed at the Conciliation Council meeting, to make a decision on the preparation of the bill for the second reading procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. [[12:35:17]] For 366 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is now a 30-minute recess. A meeting of the Conciliation Board will take place during the break. Faction leaders, please meet in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2009-07-01-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conciliation Council has concluded. The decision has been made to continue consultations on further consideration of issues and our work, particularly in the area of personnel change. My proposals for consideration by the MP's corps, and they accumulated proposals that came directly from the members of the Conciliation Board, were about to do so. First. Consider all the staff proposals that are in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If necessary, discuss each issue. If necessary from one candidate, listen to the report, and we had the appropriate committees, listen to the report of the commission and allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make a decision here in the session room, not at the Conciliation Council. This proposal was not supported, because one thing on the part of the Party of Regions was that you would provide us with decisions on the personnel we need, and we would give you the opportunity to vote on the other. I don't think it's a compromise. Therefore, a second suggestion was made: Let us form an appropriate package of release and appointment, and let the Supreme Council of Ukraine vote by the constitutional majority as it has voted today. This proposal has also not been supported, although I think it is a compromise, because it is clear that when the 2010 budget is considered, the coalition will block the rostrum and demand the opposition to vote in favour of the budget if it follows this logic that is now being proposed. So a third was proposed, I think, also a compromise line of conduct: for those vacancies that exist, take the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm talking about vacancies in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Well, we have to make a decision. Everyone would have said that. With regard to perhaps discussion points relating to the appointment of central executive heads, further consultations may be held. But to vote on a minimum that is logical and objective. And this proposal was not supported. Because we have an emergency session, basically the agenda is exhausted, now, except for the consideration of personnel issues, but because the rostrum has been blocked and there is no work available, so that's why. If there is a proposal for an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to do so, you know, 150 signatures or decisions of the Conciliation Board at which the proposal will be submitted by three factions or five committees, we are obliged to hold an appropriate introductory meeting within three days. [[not later than three days]] Therefore, if such a proposal is made, one consecutive meeting will be held this week. No, then there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Board on Monday in accordance with our plan of work, where we will agree on our schedule for the next plenary week. Therefore, I declare the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Working on committees and factions.
