ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! Let us begin the sitting of the Saeima on 21 June this year, which is closed at this session. Ladies and gentlemen, according to tradition, the President of Latvia says a speech at the closing session of the session. Name: President of State Raimonds Vejonis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U2	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear Members of the Saeima! Dear Ministers, 2018 is a historic year - we celebrate the centenary anniversary of Latvia's statehood. This year we are visited by the Heads of State and State of Europe and the world, showing us the respect and admiration that we have achieved. Indeed, we have reason to be proud of our Latvia. This year is also the election year for the Saeima. A year in which people's minds and choices are under constant fight. The wrongdoers, the most likely, will use the democratic instruments to weaken our country in good faith and will seek to influence the elections. Elections give us an opportunity to create a new political environment in Latvia, where public interests are always put first, where politicians take responsibility for their own words and actions, an environment where every citizen is aware of his or her role in shaping and strengthening our country and takes the opportunity to choose his or her chairmanship in the Saeima, because the choices made in the autumn will resonate for many years to come, defining the dynamics of our country's development. Dear Members, Honourable Members! You have decided on important reforms for our country and for our people in the area of tax and health care financing. Today, the parliamentary agenda is the vote on improving the field of education. You know, people in the regions are asking me very often: ‘When will we finish reforming?’ My answer is: “There will be someone who will change.” Each reform is an opportunity to improve and improve the existing system. This is the basis for change from better to better. The completion of each reform is the starting point for new work. The year following the introduction of the tax reform will have to assess whether and how social inequalities have been reduced. The promising economic growth and growth of gross domestic product must not only appear in statistical and optimistic headlines, but must also be increasingly felt in the life of citizens. Inequality is one of the greatest threats to our society, but not the only one. It is important for us that more and more people in the country can feel confident and confident about their future. Only then can we expect society to be able to play an active role in political processes and to follow the developments in the country. On the other hand, the introduction of a new model of financing for health care needs to ensure that access to healthcare is increased and that payment requirements for services are proportionate and fair for all groups in society. In addition to the funding allocated to the health sector, there is a double responsibility. It should be used in a prudent and effective way. Doctors, nurses, patients - each of us must be convinced that the sector is in the common interest of society as a whole. With the same determination and responsibility as we took decisions about the protection and security of our country, we must ensure that Latvians feel confident about the future of their children in our country, because only when families feel secure about their own and their children's future will they decide on the first, second, third and every future child. It is important that every child has access to quality education, regardless of who his or her parents are or where he or she lives. Our country's development and citizens' well-being in the coming decades will depend on the quality of education. Changes in education are an important and necessary step towards a knowledge society and long-term competitiveness. A knowledgeable and educated society will enable us to build a country where business with high added value flourishes and which is proud of its people. In order to build up such a society, all levels of education need to be critically reviewed, as questions are often asked: have the methods and content of primary education been delayed in another century? Are secondary and vocational institutions preparing young people for their own life? Is there not too much universities in Latvia? Are they able to provide higher education that meets Western world standards and is internationally competitive? We cannot seek answers to these questions forever. They have to be found today, because the future starts today. Honourable Members of the 12th Saeima! There is no doubt that much has been done during this Saeima. We have seen responsible action and ability to take the necessary decisions to improve the tax and health care system, to improve the transparency of insolvency processes, to arrange the banking sector and in various other areas. Unfortunately, there are also works that have rightly been criticised. We have also seen party quotas and the night of the budget, when individual Members used the draft budget as a cushion to reinstate forces. There have also been infertile disputes about education reform and almost the usual last-minute solution practice, where the third reading supports proposals that have been brought through the back door, which have not been fully developed and have not been properly discussed. Although for several years the Saeima worked on amendments to the Saeima roll of order, there was no political will to bring this work to the end. However, the proposed improvements to the legislative process should not be placed in a deeper drawer, but the work that has been done must be completed. Judges, entrepreneurs and people in municipalities often hear that norms contained in laws are not understandable. And it is not about the knowledge of the readers of the law or the level of education, but about the norms themselves, which are unclearly formulated, and often unclear possibilities for their application. That is why I have called and I call once again on all Members - absolutely everyone! - the law to create initial and final annotations so that everyone has information about changes made and work done by the Saeima. The public's lack of trust in the state's authority and parliament is often linked to the fact that we do not explain our work and do not talk to the public in a language that can be understood. Example: We have been talking about the need for regulation of lobbying for years, but during this term, the Saeima has not been able to adopt even such an elemental norm that would impose a mandatory obligation to justify each proposal in writing and to reveal which consultations have taken place during the drafting of specific legal norms. Ladies and gentlemen, The country has for many years developed a deformed system that allows the most profitable profession to be linked to the liquidation of companies rather than their formation and development of business. What many honest entrepreneurs do not earn in life, some insolvency administrators earn in months or over a year. The development of the Latvian economy and the welfare of the population require solvent and prosperous companies, not wealthy insolvency administrators. The insolvency sector is not the only one whose activity raises questions. The justice system also raises justified questions. Why is society still paying the price for the congestion, laxities and perhaps even deliberate mistakes of the judicial system? Effective and rapid judicial protection is awaited by every citizen and society as a whole. This is important both for promoting entrepreneurship in Latvia and for attracting foreign investment. Just as the rows of insolvency administrators have to be cleaned, the judiciary has to eject from among itself the unscrupulous judges. Judges must work as honest professionals of the highest assay. The knowledge of theoretical law is important, but the courage to serve justice and prevent theft of justice is more important. Parliament is changing, but must not stop at what has been achieved, because, as we can see, there is still much to be done. The Saeima must change: from a legislator dealing mainly with yesterday's and yesterday's problems - sometimes even those which it has created - to a leader of good change on matters important for the development of our country in the public interest as a whole. I would like to remind you once again that legislative work is not just a matter of public relations: it is a serious work. Members! Your work at the 12th Saeima is coming to an end. Thank you to anyone who is responsible and has worked for the interests of the state and society in the best conscience at this time! For those of you who are considering their chance to stand as candidates for the next Saeima elections, I call upon everyone to base their decision on the question: ‘What can I do for my country?’ Not: “What am I going to get from it?” Then, in this election too, we will strive for ideas and better offers for the development of our country and for the welfare of our citizens. Happy summer solstice! I wish everyone to build up their strength for a new source of work, enjoy the summer in our beautiful Latvian countryside and draw strength and energy at the Centenary Song and Dance Celebration. Happy solstice! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U3	Thank you to the President of Latvia. Dear colleagues, We're continuing the Saeima sitting. Changes tabled to the agenda of the Bureau meeting Members Putra, Brigmanis, Krauze, Mežulis, Nadiņš and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On Real Estate on Ezermalas iela 24/26 and Ezermalas iela 28, Riga, the transfer to the society “Latvijas Mazpulki””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On approval of Mārtiņš Kazaks as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupational Museum of Latvia” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Credit Register Act to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use and fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Safety” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Panel asks Members Ivars Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Sergeja Mirska, Raimonda Rubika, Andra Morozova, Janis Adamsons and Vital Orlovs to include on the agenda the request of the Minister of Economy Arvilas Aseradens “Based on the validity and compliance of the “recompensation mechanism” provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 262 “Regulations on the Production of Electricity by Renewable Energy, and the Procedure of Pricing”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the dismissal of Zita Kupce from the position of a judge of Zemgale district court. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Brigmanis, Klazts, Dzintars, Adamovich, Valainis, Trupovnieks and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days” (No 1304/Lp12). ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Klazaks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U4	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, Of course, it may have come a little bit of salt, because today will be a very, very long day of work. But, as the President said, in the year of the centenary, our country is going to be visited by a lot of figures. And I think Latvia can only be proud that Roman Pope Francisco will also visit us in September this year. Therefore, this draft law contains some questions, some works that the Saeima should put on their hand. I therefore ask for support for the inclusion of this draft law on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U5	Mr. Latkovsky, will you speak against? ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Ilmārs Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U6	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Members! Undoubtedly, a great event - the visit of the Pope of Rome to Latvia. I have a deep respect, let's say, against the Catholic... and I assume that the applicants are guided by high will and also emotions. On the whole, however, in this case, I think Members want to be more blessed than the Pope of Rome. In any case, the Roman pope will become the second most sacred value behind the coalition agreement. And respectful... all the respect both for the applicants and for the pope of Rome and also for the people of Latvia, especially the Catholics, who want to live with this event... I'm calling... we can simply call on employers to be understanding and to show a purely human good will. And those who know entrepreneurs know that entrepreneurs, employers, will understand those people who really want to participate or live up to this event will give this opportunity. For perhaps even somewhere in Vidzeme Lutherans or the Orthodoxs, this event is not what they need to have a holiday to actively participate in it and follow it. They'll watch news tonight and appreciate it. Otherwise, we can say that during the recent partial visit, we also need a holiday, and we all need to participate because of the presence of a prominent person. All respect and respect for this day! But if we want to regulate it by law so that everyone lives with us, then maybe we need to make sure that collective work is a participation - all are actively involved in events, or are watching television broadcasts together. Call for this day to be a true festival, an informal festival for people who really want to participate, but should not be done by law. So I'm against this bill, and if we start looking at it... The more we go with it, the more difficult it is, of course, to reject it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U7	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days” (No 1304/Lp12) to be included on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. The budget and financial (tax) commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of State Officials”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Transport Energy Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mrs Betes, are you going to speak 'no'? ‘ About”? ‘ About” Ms Inga Bite, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U8	Dear colleagues, We see that this draft law is based on a European Union directive and an infringement procedure following its failure to comply with it, and that is why we are forced to vote in favour of this draft law. But I call, my fellow Members, to pay attention... In the current situation, when we see that millions and even billions are paid under the compulsory procurement component, I call for particular attention to be paid to the fact that this draft law does not become compulsory procurement 2 so that this draft law does not become an economic disaster2. Because this draft law provides for state aid for certain stations and previously known operators. This draft law obliges car parks to install e.g. electric charging points. This is probably very good, but it must also take into account how much it costs and the number of people in Latvia who could immediately start using them. The draft law also provides for mandatory incorporation of biofuels, or compulsory procurement of biofuels. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Colleagues! I very much invite you to pay attention to the fact that this draft law does not cost Latvian citizens and Latvian society as much as the mandatory procurement in the field of electricity has already cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U9	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the European Parliament” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On Real Estate at Ezermalas iela 24/26 and Ezermalas iela 28, Riga, handing over “Latvijas Mazpulki” to the society “Latvijas Mazpulki” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U10	Good morning, colleagues! Real estate at Ezermalas iela 24/26 and Ezermalas iela 28 or the so-called "Summer Garden" is already historically related to "Latvijas Mazpulkis". Already in 1913 this property was bought from private individuals for the funds donated by the people, but later it was transferred to the use of “Latvijas Mazpulams”. And so it was up to occupation. Today, this property is used only in part... currently only partially from the “Latvijas Mazpulks” side. But it is still used to achieve the goals of the “Latvijas Mazpulkas” basic mission! ‘ Latvijas Mazpulki is the largest organisation of children and young people with more than 130 clubs in its composition, and its main goal is to attract children and young people to the land and to the fundamental values that would promote the further use and management of our land, because it is no secret that, let us say, in the agricultural sector... Agriculture is ageing as such. This aspect could therefore be one of the cornerstones for targeting children in this sector. It has to be said that this property has been put into use for a long time... This basic objective does not, in fact, serve as a reason for investing and developing this property. For a long time, small groups have been taking care of this property, also have voluntarily taken care of parks and surrounding areas, even though they do not have the whole territory under management. However, the area for sustainable development... Well, it does not contribute to any sustainable development... At present, therefore, the transfer to the property without remuneration would be the right way, because “Latvijas Mazpulki” has currently attracted people. “Latvijas Mazpulks” calls for long periods of 20 years have been referred to by an American Latvian, who is ready to invest in this property. And so that he can make these investments, we also have to show the good will and transfer this property to “Latvijas Mazpulkas”. It has to be said that this property has been a long-standing object of dispute, many of which have tried to obtain for themselves in various ways, because it is very valuable - on the shore of Kisezers himself. In order to put an end to these speculations and property, however, it would remain historical, because it has already been “Little crowds of Latvia”, I call for this draft law to be passed on to the commission responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U11	Mr. Burns, will you talk about the procedure? Please, turn on the microphone for the Waiter Burns!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U12	Colleagues! I call for this draft law to be referred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science as the Commission responsible and the Commission for Legal Affairs as the Co-Defence.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U13	Thank you. So there is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and to designate the Legal Commission as co-responsible. Do Members object to the transfer of the draft law to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and the Legal Commission, by stating that the Commission for Education, Culture and Science is the Commission responsible? Thank you. There is therefore no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia” presented by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the ‘Amendments to the Law on the Credit Register’ presented by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes to refer the draft law submitted by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use and fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB”” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U14	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I would ask for this draft law to be included on today's agenda at first reading as well. I would ask both to refer the matter to the Commission and to put it on the agenda today for first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U15	Dear colleagues, We are now deciding on the referral to the Commission, and only then, in accordance with the procedure, are the next issues to be decided. There is a specific procedure under the parliamentary order, which we, as all Members, must follow. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law tabled by Member Brigmanis, Klazka, Dzintara, Adamovich, Valaiņa, Trupovnieks and other Members be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Klazaks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U16	Dear colleagues, Well, I've been telling you in a lot of times, and also the people who didn't understand it or for whom it's not acceptable... Well, it is very normal that there are also atheistic, materialistic opinions. But thank you to all those who voted in favour of putting this issue on the agenda. Please refer the matter to the Commission. Of course, we should put a stop to this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U17	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Ilmārs Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U18	If there are objections to the draft law, which provides for such a holiday, it must be said that they have little to do with the materialistic view of the world. I want this aspect and I am forced to point it out here, because I think we are most affected by external forms in matters of faith than by true faith. When there are holidays in church, high officials gather there to worship, go there perhaps only once a year - when they show up on all television channels; they also go to Aglona to defile all these moves. It's all extraordinary! Christianity is in times of crisis, admiring the outward forms that are undoubtedly needed, but the inner and true experience of God’s presence is completely lost. Engagement with external forms - it's materialism! This is the impact of materialism! And my opposition to making the pope's visit day a holiday, a mandatory formal holiday for all, follows exactly from this recital. I call: Let us make it one true festival day for those who are invited internally to experience this great event, not to make it compulsory and formal for all! That's a story. Election pressure is quite high. And it is also another reminder that Members should not stay here longer than two deadlines to be redeemed from evil and temptation. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 2 and for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Sustainable Development has submitted its own proposal – draft decision on the creation of the Latvian Innovation and Technology Support Fund. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Silvia Šimfas Member on 14 June this year. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau received an application from Sylvia Schiffa, a Member, to grant her unpaid leave on 14 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. The draft decision ‘On distrust to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden’. Mr. Zarins, you're going to speak on behalf of the applicants, huh? ( Insight: ‘ Well, there is no one! ’) ) On behalf of the applicants - Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U20	Hello, colleagues! Today, I should have been here for Member Artus Kaimiņš. And, of course, it is only a coincidence that just before Artus Neiminius had had an opportunity to speak here for an entire hour, he was suddenly taken away from this medicine in an emergency procedure. I do not want to believe in the rumours that it was a political order of a ruling party so that he could not speak here for an hour today and tell what he thinks. I very much hope that we will find out the truth as soon as possible. Today we are talking about the request for a mission to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. The Energy Law states that the Ministry of Economics is responsible for the implementation of the energy administration in Latvia and is implemented by the Minister of Economics. Colleagues, our country has been independent for over a quarter of a century. Energy is one of the most important areas we have spoken about. It is important not only as an economic sector, but also as a purely strategic one, for our security. And imagine that we are an independent country all this time, but we still do not have our own energy strategy. Who is responsible for this? The Ministry of Economy is responsible for this. Why do I mention this fact? This will be a very important factor in all our future speech. Because you see, if there were an energy strategy, it would set clear principles, clear objectives that we have to achieve. And on the basis of the road map that this strategy would bring, we would do or not do. If there is no such strategy, you can extract anything from the context, present separate... highlight certain aspects of this event and convince the general public, say: see, so we will. This is why such a range as OIC, a component of compulsory procurement, was possible. Everyone knows this abbreviation. And OIK - this is just one of all these aspects. But these abyss... I call it an “aero” and I have shown the facts that it really is a politically covered aero, which is still going on. And the Saeima's vote today will be another confirmation of this. In fact, it shows us much more fundamental, much deeper problems in our society. Because a thing like the OIC field would not have been possible if real democracy were really working in Latvia, there would really be competition between opinion and the public would be able to learn about these views, to judge about these opinions and to take appropriate action when going to the elections and making their decisions. Latvia does not exist as a real democratic republic. Latvia is rather like a feudal state, which is divided into puppet kingdoms, where every feudal has some kind of power and he does what he wants. That is the reality, and we have seen this clearly both yesterday at the Saeima sitting, when there was a discussion about the request for a mission to the Minister of Justice, and we will see it clearly today. In other words, the authorities have agreed with each other that it is convenient for them and that they will work for their own interests, not for the benefit of the people, but for the benefit of their own people, by covering one another, without hindering each other, whatever they do. And in that sense, OIC is a remarkable example. Yes, of course, the OIC phase was started well before the existing Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, the first decisions concerning the production of subsidised electricity were taken in 1995. And, of course, we cannot condemn this to an existing Minister for Economic Affairs. However, what is to be discussed and which is to be analysed is the action of the existing Minister for Economic Affairs in this area. Is he really self - sacrificing or is he actually self - sacrificingly trying to cover it? I will only talk about the facts. As you remember, it was last autumn when journalists announced to the general public one of the aspects of the OIC's field, as projects in the field of subsidised electricity are actually being implemented. In particular, specific stations. Where, according to the documents of the Ministry of Economic Affairs issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs under the government of this Minister for Economic Affairs, there was actually a green meadow for operating cogeneration stations. In addition, the Ministry of Economics had assessed each case and, in each case, it also wrote in its decision that, having carefully examined the information submitted, decisions had been taken in respect of these plants, allowing them to further increase capacity hundreds of times. The next story, which took place under this Minister for Economic Affairs, was related to the amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, which were presented to the public as a fight against the OIC. Indeed, a number of amendments were indeed aimed at making this regulation more stringent and clearer. But they did not solve the problem in principle. They covered it, creating an illusion that as if this problem had been solved. But it was actually covered up, and I will only give you a few examples. Yesterday, for example, we looked at, for example, the same demand for self-consumption. The electricity market law makes a very clear requirement. Section 30 of the Law provides that only excess electricity can be sold within the framework of compulsory procurement. In turn, what does the Ministry do with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers? They make an amendment that they foresee as if... Yes, on the one hand, they say: we will now start to control it because... The way the law is being circumvented is very simple. And, again, the Ministry of Economics itself has inspired all of this to a great extent. In particular, by giving electricity generation the possibility of compulsory procurement these permits... This amount, by which the operator can sell his electricity in the framework of compulsory procurement, is determined on the basis of the total installed capacity, irrespective of the proportion of the capacity that would be necessary for the self-consumption of this plant itself to ensure its operation. This, in turn, gives the economic operator an opportunity, on the one hand, and a strong incentive, to sell, in the form of compulsory procurement, not only excess electricity, but all that he has produced. As the Ministry of Economics has envisaged an opportunity for the operator, it has calculated this amount of electricity from all installed capacity. What happens next? What's the businessman doing? The merchant is motivated and able to act as follows: he sells all the electricity he produces within the framework of mandatory procurement, but he buys the electricity he needs from another manufacturer, usually Latvenergo, by creating appropriate connection schemes for him. This process should have been under control for 10 years. The law has been a requirement for more than 10 years. What is the Ministry of Economics doing? It is only after it begins to point out these discrepancies that, of course, it urgently amends the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, but expects that it will only start to implement this rule in a year's time – it will only start to check in a year's time. Thus, an unlawful rule shall be established by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the justification is even more shocking. The reason is very simple: “You know, because we know that traders are cheating and that they have not complied with this rule, we cannot start checking them right away, because if we start to check them right away, we will have to withdraw their permits, and so we give them a year to prevent them or, in other words, to hide this fraud, so that they do not have to be punished.” Well, apologies, that's all it should be, not just a demision, but here we should talk about... too much more serious. And that's just one nuance that shows that this OIC is a political sphere, a politically covered area that is still on-going. Another interesting amendment, which is in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. What does it mean? What we have talked about this warning system is this "in good faith" violation that the Ministry of Economics, when asked and asked to explain why the Ministry of Economics has designed such a very specific control mechanism for the entire OIC industry... In other words, when an economic operator qualifies for aid, he is entitled to receive that aid even if he does not comply with the conditions of the aid, even when he is cheating. He's not being punished for that! He's just being warned. And he is still being given the time to prevent this violation for several months. Imagine such a situation. Imagine this situation with some other support, let us take it with the support of the European Structural Funds or with the support of the Rural Support Service: the farmer could cheat, fail to fulfil the conditions for support and, however, continue to receive the aid money. You know what the real regulation is: not only does he stop this support, he is obliged to return it all. Question: "Why does the Ministry of Economics not provide for such a regulation in respect of this aid, which we all pay? So carefully, by law, are provided with the entire billions that society as a whole has to pay, we all pay. But make sure that this support system is properly controlled, for no reason has it been forgotten. And all these years will be forgotten! Okay. It could be said that the economy... I understand that energy is indeed a complex area, and it takes time to understand it. But the Minister for Economics has all been told. For a year now, you have been told what to do. You still don't. You will continue to cover it. Why? What is your motivation? And found it... This is how you have already been given ready solutions. You have been told of irregularities, both with regard to these checks, which you have not actually carried out... Checks. It's even legendary! Checks you started last autumn. From the beginning you promised to respond to the inspection schemes announced by the journalist, to carry out checks “full perimeter”. Later these 39 stations, out of all more than 400 operating stations, appeared to be a ‘full perimeter’. All right, let it be! What did you choose to check? You chose to test 39 stations, all of which had obvious features of the container scheme, and none of which in fact fulfilled the conditions for authorisation by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In fact, all these authorisations had to be withdrawn for a long time. Okay. You chose to check them out. You checked them, checked them, checked them... When you were around Easter, it was in spring, in almost half a year, asked, “Well, how do you go with those tests?” and asked, “Well, just say, how many of these 39 stations have actually been built?” , The Ministry of Economics was unable to respond to this. It is recorded at the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and can be heard. They said: “We don’t know. We're still going on!' Imagine, for six months, 40 stations are being tested, most of which have not been built at all. It's not there! And the Ministry of Economics is still unable to say! You said at the turn of the year: "We know that seven permits should be maintained." When we asked to submit documents on these seven stations, so that we could make sure that there really is - to be preserved or not - the Ministry of Economics immediately said: "No, no, no, no! We will still check them." And you're still testing them?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You said: “As soon as we check, we will come to the Saeima and tell you everything.” Nothing has been said! Nothing is known! This, when it comes to inspections. And, talking about tests... It was very simple: you were given specific things that should be checked. First, self-consumption. Secondly, efficient heat. Thirdly, examine the reality of whether these data provided by economic operators are true, because its system... More. If we're talking about this system, about its misdemeanour, it's about the audits that are being conducted... So audits are a fundamental element of this system. As if on paper again everything looks very beautiful and very correct: these audits are carried out independently, by professional auditors. But the job is given and paid by the businessman himself. And here again, this big motivation appears, so that this audit... how this audit can become as required by the customer. It is unofficially known that very many audits have been made in this way: to be correct and qualified for the requirements of the Ministry of Economics, but to be profitable for the client. The question for the Ministry of Economics: what problems did you have to set up this audit system so that you, the Ministry of Economics, would be the one ordering it all, who is in contact with these auditors, making a competition, then distributing them to the companies that are being audited by lots, and that is the one controlling, accepting the audit result and paying for it? And we need to pay... Very simple. Now the businessman still has to pay it. This audit is more expensive for each individual economic operator than if it were organised by the Ministry of Economics. And this could be done in elementary terms: to levy the levy paid by these economic operators, and all these checks are carried out on this charge. But what did you do? To feed these businessmen, you stipulated by law that they would be us, electricity consumers, the whole society, who would pay for all of this. The public trader will put it in a tariff. Well, where again... Is that so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Tell me, what was your motivation, why did you do that? Go on. I see you sign up. Very good! I look forward to receiving answers to these questions. Go on. If we're talking... So you were given concrete things to do. They are still not being done. Why? Go on. You made a task force. Well, it is clear why this working group was being set up! If you don't want to do anything, you need to set up a task force, so you can hesitate. The question is: if this task force really had the task of sorting out this situation, what should have started? You should normally have started with... as treatment of the patient. Before you start to treat the patient and think about what medicine you are taking, you start making a diagnosis and carrying out tests. In particular, all these checks should be carried out in order to determine whether the companies in question qualify for this aid. You very much love to talk about legitimate expectations, about the principles of the rule of law, about the fact that we have to respect them. However, why, when it comes to the rule of law, you always think only about the legal interests of these OIC beneficiaries. But what about the public’s legitimate expectation that if the State had already offered any such scheme, then the economic operators have fulfilled all their obligations? There's nothing like that again. On the contrary. There is an urgent talk: “We can do nothing! As soon as we get them... If we persecute them, they don't give us God, they will judge them. Minister! You haven't thought about this system... may also be sued by the other party. And there will be more than 10 litigations, there may be thousands of litigations, and all of them will be lost... I mean, in a single gate... Whereas this system is constructed. The first thing that this working group should have done was to be clear at all, with regard to the legal validity of this system, whether it is at all justified and what the basis is. What you are doing is you continue to build this system on these wrong foundations, trying to hide its unlawful... all this unlawfulity embodied in this system. And the result? What you are doing is, in principle, you are now going to the same scenario as that of ABLV Bank at the time. OIC may be the same as ABLV Bank. In other words, you leave something legally questionable where it can be seen that regulation is not the right one. As a result, it can simply destroy the entire system, and everyone in the house on that wrong foundation can suffer. Both those who have done all things in good faith and who would really have reason to trust the law, for they have done all things for themselves, and all the others. That is the direction in which you are currently taking the whole action, one big crèche! And then you can really turn to the state with justified demands. Minister! Do you understand simply the global disaster that you are building with your activities in relation to the OIC? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D.Zaka: Global disaster! ) For what does this mean? We had, let's say, the same conversation... If we are talking about the rule of law of this system... The rule of law of this system. Then, if we look more at the rules of European Union law, we see that you needed to harmonise this support. The OIC - it is State aid which, under European Union law, should have been brought into line with the European Commission before it is implemented. This was not done. What is more, it has not been done for 10 years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolish intermediate call.) Under European Union law, aid which has been implemented without prior coordination with the European Commission is illegal. You understand what the consequences this can have for the Latvian state now? And if you keep it... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “There are no consequences!” ) Mr. Spolish, you will have the opportunity to come here and talk! You make some statements, but then you are afraid to justify them. Come here and justify! Go on. When it comes to the rule of law of this system, about the validity of the OIC system, one side - these are the legal aspects that I have now touched on, the other one - economic. If we look at these calculations... Yesterday we looked at the Committee on Petitions, and you yourself were sitting there... I think you should have understood that there's not something really funny there. What the officials of the Ministry of Economics said was trying to explain the obvious economic absurdities. Trying to say: “You know, there’s no difference whether we index expenditure with inflation rate or not... with inflation rate... Nothing is changing from this!” Well-founded questions arise from the European Commission's decision on this aid scheme. Is the aid scheme that has been agreed with the European Commission and the aid scheme that is actually implemented in the country of Latvia the same? In fact, has the European Commission not been misled so that in all possible ways the generous honeybrush that is made up of individual economic operators - the name OIC - can continue to be equally generous? That is, if we look at the very obvious thing that your Ministry of Economics is still defending, why the overcompensation formula does not take all the support into account... So, too, I have not received this economic, logical justification: why, calculated in order to put an end to this overcompensation... this level of support that would be due to the operator... Why is the aid paid to him for years under the previous aid scheme not taken into account? As you know, many generators have been working for a very long time, almost 10 years before the previous support scheme. And in essence, many of them have completely bought all the investments. In turn, the Ministry of Economics generously, with its regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, has provided entrepreneurs with the possibility that with the new support scheme, with this agreed support scheme, they can start to re-return everything. That is, they deserve, deserve, deserve, deserve, and now the Ministry of Economics says with its rules: all you deserve by selling your energy so far is zero, we do not take it into account, but all your investments that have been at that time we take into account and start to make a new return. In spite of the illusion that all aid is taken into account, the Ministry of Economics has made a reservation in such a way that the aid granted to investments is also taken into account. But it is insignificant compared to the support that the merchant received for his energy - both for electricity and for heat - if it was a cogeneration plant. And that's the enti million! Minister, it is obvious here where its fraud takes place! So the economic effect, even from self-consumption... You may know that self - consumption for cogeneration plants amounts to between 10 and 30 percent. Imagine the amounts that are being defrauded! Really cheated! And this is not just about these amounts. This is a fact. If such a finding is made, the operator shall not qualify for aid. Not only does he not qualify for aid, he should not only withdraw it, but he would not be able to receive it at all and he could be required to return it. And it would be quite the opposite - not to continue to pay them millions, but now they would have to pay millions for these illegal schemes, which you - the Ministry of Economics - have to continue to cover with both hands. Furthermore, in an illegal manner, as it was shown to you at the previous meeting of the Commission on Petitions, the request for this own consumption was examined. The Ministry of Economics has prepared regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that are unlawful, contrary to the highest legal norm established by law. And the reason for this was that we know there's a violation of this law, but we can't start to check, because then we will have to withdraw permissions. Absurd! So if we were talking about the task force, you had to start with two things. Firstly, there was to be a strategy, a strategic view of what we are doing with the whole area. The other thing. Real diagnostics. If you're going to... if you really want to cure rather than allow it to cough, so that it continues, you should have made a real diagnosis, an analysis of how that patient is sick, what its real illness is. You haven't done it, you're hiding it. Where is the evaluation of the justice of this system? That was the first thing to start with. Go on. It is very unique what this working group has been doing, as you say. You say (I quote your words from the interview): “We have now been clear about the structure and support levels.” Johaidi! Support has been in place for almost 20 years, but only now that we have paid not only one billion but entos, you are saying that you have finally been clear. What's that? On the amounts of this aid? The Task Force also continues to look at the macroeconomic assessment of the OIC system. Johaidi, that was a long time ago! You have, by nature, made a charge to yourself. And it is a pity that the prosecutor's office did not know these words before it prepared its application to the Constitutional Court. For it is, however, a fundamental context that would have given the Constitutional Court the opportunity to accept this application. Because one thing is to say: See, it's not fair that we're so many... that we are burdened with such a burden. Indeed, the Latvian State could impose such a burden on its citizens. But if it imposes such a burden, the other important thing that had to be predicted is how this burden is monitored, controlled. And it has not been done. If this aspect is taken into account, then I am sure that the Constitutional Court would accept this application. And we will soon prepare and submit such an application. And I am sure that we will succeed in getting this application accepted by the Constitutional Court and starting to examine it. Go on. The Task Force. For other measures. So instead of really starting to treat this plague, you will continue to cover it up, create an illusion before the elections. Although the same legendary decision you made - almost 80 million, Latvenergo's profits, directed towards the feeding of the oikists... ( Internouncing call.) Okista feeding! So 80 million are given a light hand to feed the Occistians to create an illusion at the elections that the Occist Circle is reduced. Minister, what should you do if you really wanted to fight this plague? You said all the time: “Yes, but the Ministry of Economics has no resources, there is no capacity to test all this!” And here you have the resources - 80 million. Take one million of these 80 million and make a check on this money - a proper check! If you do not know what to check, I can tell you what and how it should have been checked with regard to self-consumption, heat, fuel, all the things that are known to the beneficiaries of the aid. They do not want to do this, for it is not good for them, because no one controls them. And perhaps after this check it would be clear that the problem has already been solved! This would in principle have led to a fall in the burden of the OIC. The other thing you should have done is to review the support formulas, see how much money this business operator would have to receive and how much money he has received. Because you are in the same regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers... You have been made there that in these publications the merchant can put anything. He can buy himself a jeep, he can go to the Maldives, and we will pay for it. And all this will be legally justified in accordance with the regulations issued by the Cabinet of Ministers. Why haven't you done all this? Go on. I expect the next steps that will be taken immediately in the working group: you will probably come with a phenomenal proposal that you should buy back these commitments, and you will generously start doing so. That is, those economic operators who have understood that if they put this system in place, they will have to start fulfilling all the conditions for support... they will no longer benefit from it because they have dealt with what we can call fraud. They will understand that it is more advantageous to sell it at once and get it right away than to try to do something. I foresee that it will be one of the proposals of the Task Force, how this fraud can be covered right away and how they can earn it right away without waiting or working for all the years that they have left. What is happening at the moment - it is, in principle, obvious that the OIC area is politically covered, and this is still going on. And it leads to a very dramatic result. As I said, Minister, you should not worry so much about the proceedings that could be carried out by the Occistians, because, in principle, if the state had to take care of everything that they have to do, then, I think, many proceedings would simply have nothing at all, because there would be no one to judge. Rather, on the contrary, these proceedings would be the opposite: our country would have the opportunity to get back money from the olicists. It wouldn't be all you scared of, continuing to cover it up. And the other thing I'm asking you to think about. You will continue to cover the illegal activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, many of which have begun before you became a minister. Yes, you are not responsible for them, but you are responsible for continuing to cover them. That is your responsibility! You will continue to cover illegal activities - activities that are not in the public interest. And that is your responsibility! And because you are not doing this, it is right today to ask for your resignation. Because you're already... How many years have you been a minister for the economy? You can't say that you didn't know anything, because everything was told. You know everything. Today, I say to you again from this troupe, what was to be done. And it was known to you for a good time. But you haven't done this. On the contrary, you are doing the opposite: you are trying to cover the OIC sphere with every effort. And that is why we are calling for today to support the request for a resignation that we have tabled... ( Milestones.) I think that this vote will be very symptomatic: it will demonstrate what is actually happening to our country. What I am talking about is that real democracy does not work in our country, our country acts as a feudal state divided between feudals who simply ignore the interests of society, just think about how to meet their needs and how to continue to milk their society, their people. I call for this request to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U21	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U22	Hello, brothers and sisters! ( The transcripts are: “Hello, brother! ”) ; “With sunflowers!” ) Welcome to the sunflower festival! It is a pity that you did not support Ascolda Kļaviņš' proposals, then we could celebrate the celebration of our fathers today. ( Milestones.) Okay. You want to hear what I say (Interface: “No!” ), don't you want to?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U23	Debate, Mr. Nunozol. Don't talk to the grass, don't ask questions. The noise. Impressions. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U24	My saying will be in 30 seconds. I can stay here for 14 minutes, I have no problem! ( Laughs.) Depp. A.Loskutov: “We have to debate from the platform, you can’t stand!” ) I can debate. If you want to debate, I can also debate. We're all going to debate, we're going to lose, we're going to be in beekeeping. It's gonna be nice, it's gonna be wonderful! As we say, we will show us what we are. We've come here for a good time. I would very much like us not to have a good time here, but we still want to take care of the interests of the people! ( Internouncing call.) Can I express my thoughts? ( Interface: “Of course! ”) ) Okay? Can I? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “Speak what you need and don’t talk to the hall!” ) Will you obey? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Speak, Waldie!” ) No? Well, go on! Then go on! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U25	Colleagues! Well...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U26	Thank you, Mrs. Mourniece. Thank you very much. I have a great request: we are completing these ministerial dance shows! Yes, a great request: we're finishing these ministerial dance shows! ( Milestones.) Dear opposition! If you come with concrete proposals to put public administration in place, so that it is in the interests of the people and well-being of the country, so that it is not in the interests of some who want to live, I will be a Member of the position one hundred percent on your side and will actively fight for these steps... so that our country's facility sort out, I'll do... But for the moment to come, God’s Word says: “Do not be afraid. ” V.Spolitis: “Now! Now!’ ), dear friends, it's useless for the leaders of the people... Carly, my friend, honey! Yeah... But for the moment to come, God’s Word says: “Do not be afraid. ” L. Cigan: “There’s no such name!” ), it is useless to spend time on raising awareness among the fronts of the people. We're good owners in our land! We believe we succeed!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U27	Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U28	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Presidium! Colleagues! I, of course, share the concern of Member Ivars Zarins about the ambitious area of OIC and other omissions of Minister Asheraden, but I would like to look more specifically at another, very specific problem of the Minister for the country's economy and society as a whole, namely the endless story of one of the largest industrial enterprises in Latvia and certainly the biggest in Kurzeme. It is “Liepājas metalurgs”. ‘ Liepaja Metalurgs’ insolvency process has been in existence for two years, requiring the state from 150 thousand euros in summer months to 250 thousand euros in winter. These are just maintenance expenses! The State has already irreversibly lost around 100 million in this insolvency procedure, for which it is not responsible. No one is judged, dismissed, no official has even received a reproof. Please tell me: “What will happen if a private company is bankrupt?” I won't agree. Yesterday we discussed the resignation of the Minister of Justice, but the coalition decided to protect him despite the chaos in the insolvency sector. Today, obviously the same thing awaits Minister Asheraden, his hand washes. If the insolvency is clear, can the Minister explain why investors who want to buy the plant as a whole are rejected? Will it again be the same as in the ‘home plant’ of the Slaughter, because sale can make a good profit from each auction? Investors stand in line to buy a whole plant with all its assets. Why are we not using these opportunities? It can be concluded that throughout this time, the Ministry of Economics has led the process of attracting investors to an incompetent, non-professional and even abusive position, which will result in the country’s complete loss of the steel industry and assets. Although it was very easy to rebuild the plant without investing in its own resources, it also gained hundreds of jobs. For more than a year, a British consortium of companies British Steel, Graybull Capital and Baltic Metal Holding wants to buy a factory and re-establish its production. The rapidly growing British Steel is now the most successful steel industry in Europe, which developed on the basis of the failed UK company Tata Steel. British Steel has seen a resuscitation of insolvent steel companies, and billions are worth the assets and financial resources it invests in acquiring steel companies across Europe. In the company’s plans it is necessary to create a large industrial park in Liepaja based on Liepaja Metalurgs, investing around 500 million euros and creating 2600 new jobs. At the end of last year, the consortium British Steel withdrew from the negotiation process, because it was clear that the process of selling “Liepājas metalurgs” is being prepared for one particular applicant – the international aferist Igors Shamis, who has no working metallurgical combect and legal financial resources, but this did not prevent Asheraden from meeting with Shamis seven times personally. During this year, when negotiations with Shamisi failed and it became clear that he did not even plan to start production, British Steel reiterated its offer to purchase the entire collective of “Liepės metalurgs”. However, until today, the Ministry of Economics and personally Asheraden, who met with British Steel on 10 May, takes time and does nothing to even start negotiations with the British consortium. Avoid and lie. Meanwhile, “Liepājas metalurgs” property is sold by piece, and the moment will come when it will be sold out so that there will be no longer a set of assets necessary for starting production. Who needs this? Of course, before the elections, Asheraden cannot publicly say that he does not need any “Liepājas metalurgs” that he is tired of these problems and simply wants to sell the “Liepājas metalurgs” assets to his friends and sponsors of the party by receiving donations before the election of the Unity, because Uldis Pīlēns is the main asset of “Liepājas metalurgs”. Therefore, a foreign investor is fooled while the assets are being sold out to say that, unfortunately, the British failed and this time nothing happened. That the British people blamed themselves, that they woke up so late. The British Embassy has, of course, also expressed its dissatisfiance with all these processes, but this will not save the situation. Therefore, I call on Asheraden to acknowledge his mistakes and to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U29	The name of Member Inese Sustrout.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U30	Hello, dear colleagues! The Bureau and Ministers! I'm glad you're silent. The rest of us have been talking for four years. I have had less opportunity to do so, so I can't talk about construction issues at the moment when we are dealing with Asheraden's case. I have a question: what does the Ministry of Economics do? Does the Ministry of Economics do anything else at all, just trying to regulate OIC matters? Here, too, we are talking only about the OIC today. Perhaps it is urgent for the Minister to put together OIC cases so that the next government cannot stop the milking machine, with which every month from each farm, from every electricity consumer, and from milking money, so that some individuals can spend their money on their own needs. Some under the auspices of the Ministry of Economics at Campar and Pavlut were at a glorious couch. The Ministry of Economics is no longer interested in other sectors! But the question is, is the construction arranged? Is it really okay in the construction sector? In January 2017, three Ministers of Unity held a press conference in which the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden promised us a leiputija. I quote: “The country is ready to learn about a billion euros from European Union funds, which will be invested in the construction of various facilities.” The scale of construction will be so extensive that thousands of workers will need to be involved. In order not to open borders for migrant workers in the future, the country is about to teach low-skilled local people. In the years to 2019, huge money will flow into the construction sector! 2017 - 400 million, 2018, that is, this year - 600 million. The construction sector will rapidly develop and will require more than 7 000 workers. Where are they? Karlis Shadurskis, Minister for Education and Science, was happy to share information about what he intended to build in his area of administration. ( This is what the press conference itself is about.) It is planned to spend 116 million on improving the infrastructure of scientific institutes, 40 million on university construction, 82 million on vocational education projects, and equally large amounts on the construction of municipal educational institutions. Where is all this? Has anyone seen this rapid construction of educational and scientific institutions? Mr. Asheraden! First of all, legislation must be put in place and then the construction must be carried out. Do you think that in the construction sector everything has already been arranged before you were at Atis Kampars, Daniel Pavlut, Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, Anrijs Matīss? Former State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Juris Pūce, established party for Development/Par! promote the entry of new politicians into politics, false voters that party members have never been in politics... At the beginning of the ministerial work, Asheraden held a meeting with the employees of the building boards of Riga and Pierīga municipalities in Salaspils. Promised to arrange the industry, the building regulatory framework. We all hoped it would happen once, but... How is it always: “How can you not do it?” Nothing has been arranged until today. And about the Construction Law. The Construction Law was adopted in 2013 before the Zolitūde tragedy. Then it was inevitable and all those responsible understood that the law just approved had to be amended as a matter of urgency. As of 23 January 2014, the Saeima voted in favour of the first amendments to this law. At that time, I said from this troupe, and you can listen to it and read it in Saeima’s stenograms that the Construction Law is a brother of the Ministry of Economics. Many now agree with this. The proof of this is that the Construction Law has been amended seven times and almost always in urgent order until today. But they are not at all the last amendments. They will be more and more, we will have to correct the Construction Law here again, and more than 50 percent will be distorted. And its Minister for Construction, Asheraden, established a working group on 21 February 2017 by order No 44. Last year, the Task Force once again made so-called rapid amendments as a matter of urgency, i.e. put together some comma, but left the key to September. I'm sorry he didn't say what year he was. We hoped last year. The year is in the circle. As a representative of the Latvian Civil Engineering Union, I was delegated to work in this working group. How many working group meetings have so far taken place after the rapid amendments? I don't know, but I was only invited once. Is that serious? In the construction sector, future amendments will be very important, which will determine the competence and responsibility of construction actors. It is important to determine the competence and responsibility of municipal building boards, the competence and responsibility of the State Construction Control Office, the allocation of responsibility of the participants of the construction process (for the builder and designer to be responsible for the work done!) , as well as the protection of the interests of the customer. It is also set out in the Government Action Plan for Implementation of Declarations on the planned activities of the Cabinet of Ministers led by Māra Kučinska and in the Ministry of Economics Action Plan. The industry is desperately waiting, but the Ministry of Economics does not want to arrange for the construction, because it is probably better for someone to work. Does it really seem to those sitting in this room that legislation in the construction sector is all right today? Anyone who has recently been involved in the construction of an object understands that bureaucracy is an inconceivable process. But what does the Minister say about this? We don't know, the Ministry is silent. The Ministry has no time to submit to the Saeima even those amendments to the Construction Law, which the Construction State Control Office has long prepared for the construction information system - the so-called BIS. All those involved in the construction process wait for the paperwork to end once and we will be able to work in the way we work in the 21st century. The work of our closest neighbours in Estonia and Lithuania. But we still carry projects with trailers, waste paper and scrap construction boards. The Minister also had to get acquainted with the report of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the causes of the tragedy that took place in Zolitumo. There, not only the mentioned shortcomings of political perpetrators, but also the legislative and regulatory framework have been analysed in detail. It says what needs to be changed in legislation so that disasters do not recur, so as to cut red tape and that buildings have both physical and legal security. The report also makes it clear that Section 12 of the Construction Law needs to be changed in order to determine the responsibility of the building boards. The building boards cannot cope with existing resources, with the amount of statutory obligations and responsibility. The construction boards lack specialists and cannot find employees. In the field of construction there are also huge miracles, violations. For example, a house-ship. Five ministries six months ago were involved in solving and explaining the issue: a house or a ship? Minister Asheraden recruited the State Secretary for Construction, a specialist who has received maritime education. I could already ask my counselor on board, maybe this specialist knows the best. The sector is waiting for many of the many laws and regulations that will help the sector to be organised. But, unfortunately, nothing happens. The industry is also waiting for new general building regulations, which are like an apple tree for each member of the construction industry. The Ministry of Economics began to amend them already two years ago. Then I realized that more than two thirds had to be changed there and decided to lead as a new legislative act. He decided, but didn't direct. Why is it late again? Where is this legislative act? At present, all continue to work on old rules, knowing that they have two thirds of a brother. Does that mean that we build all the buildings in a way that safety is only one third? Two years ago, I had prepared a visual overview of the amendments to be made to the general building regulations (some of them have seen it). But so far nothing has changed. We're all still going by the old one. ( Interface: “To the top! ”) ) I have brought this roller, which is 15 meters... General building standards... ( Shows rollers.) Substitution: Ooo! ) Green deletes what needs to be deleted out there and red contains new amendments. That is what this legislative act looks like. ( Independence: “Give the Minister! ” ) Such a document works all the building boards and all the construction specialists! Do you feel that this is a serious job? Can this work be done? Two years must be worked with such an incomplete regulatory act for all construction participants! I have 15 meters here - this is the document. ( The transcripts are: “Demission! ” ; “Genitals!” ) I hope that the Minister will prepare the necessary amendments by the end of this Saeima and will submit it to the Saeima for approval. Today I will be voting in favour of maintaining the government. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ; “Uo!” ) Thank you for your attention. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U31	The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Gunaras Kūtris, a member of the Parliamentary Secretary, will be given the floor to communicate the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared. Name for the statement to Member Sergey Potapakin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U32	Dear colleagues, A meeting of the group of MEPs with the Chinese Parliaments will take place in the yellow Chamber. Come here, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U33	Name for the statement to Member John Tutin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U34	Colleagues! After five minutes, a meeting of the Subcommittee on Housing will take place at the premises of the National Administration and Municipal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U35	Name for the statement to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U36	Dear Members of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, In five minutes' time, please meet at the committee meeting in the committee room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U37	Name Gunārs Kūtris for reporting the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U38	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Inesis Boķis, Einārs Cilinskis, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols... Yes, Līga Kozlovska... yes, Inese Laizāne, Anrijs Matīss, Aivars Meija, Jānis Upenieks and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U39	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U40	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We will continue the sitting of the Saeima on 21 June 2018. On the agenda - draft decision on distrust to Minister for Economic Affairs Arvilas Aseradens. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U41	Dear colleagues, Mr. High Minister. In addition to what my fellow Members have today for you, for you (The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) works and omissions have already been told, I would also like to touch on another topic that we have today on the agenda. And this is the bill “Law on the rental of residential premises”. I would like to ask Mr Asheraden - it is very good that there is this opportunity today - why he has brought such a brother to the Saeima. Why does the Minister believe that the Saeima is such a magical laboratory, where, somehow, what has been etched by the Ministry for years? I do not really understand why such action, Minister, was to create even greater distrust for the Saeima or greater distrust for the government, because I think you have not even come to talk to the tenants of denationalised houses who have been plucking several times to the Cabinet of Ministers, who have also come and wrote to the Saeima. I really don't know what makes you do. The number of tenants of denationalised houses has not been identified, the issue of resettlement benefits has not been arranged since 2009. And you've just brought your bill to the Saeima right now and you don't even try to defend it in any way. It is such a sleepy self - confidence and incredible arrogance. I call on you to clarify this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U42	Member Astrid Harjus.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U43	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Saeima! Dear Ministers, Today, when it comes to the demand for democracy, everyone spoke of a sector that is more familiar and concerned about it. I will now touch more on the subject of the compulsory procurement component, because I am dealing with it while working on the Commission for Petitions. I thought to start my speech in a different format, but Mr. Zarins' long story, which in every meeting of the Commission is also being presented... and at first, I really listened to the Lord Zariņš as a knowledgeable expert with a great deal of admiration and interest, and he also has such a knowledgeable expert. But now I would wonder more about it if he didn't understand this area. In contrast to us, he has been a member of the Commission for Public Service Regulation for many years and has also been the Head of the Commission for Public Services. He is therefore familiar with this field in nuances and has also worked on the methodology of the mandatory procurement components, directly with the pricing process. And I found such an interesting interview. It has been published in lvportals.lv on 24 January 2011. Ivars Zarins, the Chairman of the Board of the Public Service Regulatory Commission, is interviewed. He is asked: why did the regulator accept in this difficult period of crisis a 10 percent rise in the minimum procurement component's payment position? And I quote: “You should listen to what the representatives of the regulated company say and to what bright faces they are sitting here, expressing the opposite – without charging the company everything will immediately collapse!” So I understand you understand... No, it's about OIC. You also understand the other side of this clothing - the lining side. And you understand that you cannot make your own decisions either. Just as the Minister cannot accept the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers alone. There is a harmonisation process that is quite difficult and difficult. But, talking more about this subject, I want to ask. You then left - you were elected to the Saeima in October 2011. It was from this driver's point of view that you came to the Saeima, and at that point you also said that OIC is a burden for the economy and a burden for consumers. But for seven years you didn't work with this burden. And only now, as the parliamentary elections approach, it is avalanche over the Ministry of Economics and, in essence, it is blocking the work of the Ministry of Economics. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Exactly!” ) As a result, other industries are truly... Can all of them be followed if, as of October last year, we have been looking at the Request Commission 14 requests from the Minister for Economic Affairs with 62 questions containing essentially more than 600 questions? The Ministry of Economics must concentrate all its efforts to actually this avalanche... This avalanche is over. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “And what is the fault? Ivars?Oh, no, no, “ Did it not receive this inheritance from the former? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Who was before?” ) I recall the energy strategy once again. On 5 May 2005, 73 Members voted in favour of the Electricity Market Law, which defines the production of alternative energy and provides that in 2020 40.3 percent of the electricity consumed will be covered by this alternative electricity. We are still very far from that. So, out of this position, we gave a mandate and legal confidence in the development of this plant. But when it comes to the work of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Ministry, it is very strange that this demand for democracy comes at the very moment when the Minister for Economics really is active in order to regularise the nature and purpose of the compulsory procurement component in a legal way. Since October last year, 21 licences for plants have been revoked from the OIC scandal. ( Insight: “How many hundreds?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ") And in the summer of 2017, under the leadership of the Minister for Economic Affairs, the uncoordinated rules on state aid for alternative energy production were finally agreed with the European Commission over a period of 10 years. The European Commission notes that a Member State has failed to comply with the procedural rules, but this aid is not contrary to the internal electricity market of a Member State and therefore leaves the decision to the Member State. On this basis, our government has set up a working group to reduce or exclude the mandatory procurement components on a legal basis. And there are a number of other measures to reduce the charges on the compulsory procurement component for consumers. I therefore call on the Saeima to reject this request for resignation and to allow the Minister for Economic Affairs to arrange the compulsory procurement component system, as well as to sort out in the sector the things that have been talked about here. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U44	The name is Arvil Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U45	Hello, honourable Members! Thank you for the opportunity to speak here. The last time was on March 8, and I don't have a lot of new news that I could say. I want to remind you of what I said. I still believe that the introduction of the OIC system was a fundamental macroeconomic error that needs to be corrected, and that this error is the responsibility of both Mr. Kalvitis and Mr. Godmanis, especially Mr. Godmanis, who, with the regulations adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers in 2009, is responsible... especially when this government had demisted... he opened all these hell gates, which the six governments have really tried to collect together in some way. Go on. I am addressing the Prime Minister from this troupe, talking about the fact that more or less the Ministry of Economics has exhausted its potential and that we have to assess this situation much more broadly, and I called for the creation of a high-level expert working group to deal with the issue of abolishing the OIC system. I have received such a mandate, so the government has made a decision, and I would like to say that for the first time in the history of 20 years since the start of the OIC, the Latvian Government has given a very strict mandate to the working group. First, to assess the macroeconomic impact of the OIC system. Secondly, to develop a scenario of how to opt out of this system. Thirdly, look at the ways in which the government... the State is able to fulfil the obligations it has accepted against the European Commission. With regard to the work of the committee, I would like to say that it is usually said that the commissions are being set up to delay time, whereas this is the very opposite situation. We have really managed to bring together 24 experts, high level experts. This work is attended, for example, by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, as well as by the management of LTRK and LDDK. And that is what I could call all kinds of associations - heat producers, industrialists - and all the possible members involved in it. We're all working. What we have done. We will immediately complete the work on the macro-economic assessment. There is no big surprise here. What we have seen in general: Latvia is, I would say, one of the poorest countries in the European Union that has allowed the most effective support for the production of electricity, green electricity. If we compare it with other countries, even if it is with our neighbours, it is at least two-thirds smaller. And so this energy is produced, and this macro-economic assessment, in addition to attracting scientists – both Latvian and international scientists... we have quite a clear situation in which this green energy matter is to be dealt with in Latvia. In any case, not in the way it has been dealt with so far. There is no doubt about this. Next. The working group is currently working on the development of various instruments that can reduce the impact of the OIC on the economy and are now defined at least 14. At the next section meeting scheduled for next week, we will work on the OIC withdrawal scenarios. The Task Force will therefore define the scenarios for abolishing the OIC. In this case, I would like to say that this message, in my opinion, was very clumsy from the media. There were interviewed people who really represent the sector. Of course, they will say, "We would like not only what is, but more." No doubt! There is no doubt that they would say that the OIC should not be abolished. I do not represent this opinion in any way, and I would like to say that I will carry out in full what the government has given me, this mandate. I will submit three things: a macro-economic assessment (at the moment it is very negative for this system); the second is the scenario of abolishing the OIC, which I will also present at the time of the submission, and we will work towards meeting our international commitments. So far we've done. Now Mr. Zarins. Thank you, Mr. Zarins. You've been busy for eight months. We have worked to answer 600 questions. I have to say that, in my political practice, I have not seen a great deal of such questions. And I want to ask... Using this platform, I would also like to ask the Legal Commission to assess whether it can really do so. Because, to be honest, if there are 19 questions to answer within 48 hours, this is difficult and, to be honest, the entire ministry sector concerned is indeed mainly concerned with the answers to those questions. And you have to think about it in some other way. But in any case, I would like to say to Mr Zariņš: thank you, Ivar, it has really helped. We have looked at many issues in a completely different light. And I want to talk about two parts. Part One: If we, Mr. Zarins, are talking about afero and cover, please... That's what Mr. Brigmann said when we looked at these issues in the Commission for Petitions.... Please, if it is a criminal act... Both the Prosecutor General's Office and the police - please turn there! And I hope that all will respond to the harshness of the law. With regard to the things we've been talking about here, on control and... I've kept my name. Thus, the first 40 stations have been inspected, 21 of them have been cancelled, another four are in the process of being evaluated; the others are allowed to work. With regard to the other 400, I said that checks will be carried out on a full perimeter. The accepted Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 262 allows... in fact, the public electricity trader has started the checks and will carry out, in accordance with these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, the checks of compliance of all the stations provided for in these regulations. This will be done, and we will see the first results already this year. With regard to regulation 262, I would like to say that it is not that the Minister can sign the paper and adopt the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations tomorrow. The regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are agreed with the ministries, political debates are held to agree on them. And I have to say that this was not an easy process, it took a very long time, and the industry did not pay any money and fought very crucially for its interests. But I want to say that there are some things that have huge benefits over what had been so far. So the first change that has been and has changed... as well as the industry lobby... So so so far, a lot of these cogeneration stations... they were not even obliged to sell this heat. There was no obligation to sell heat, although it is the purpose of cogeneration: first, heat must be produced and then only energy. So far, it focused on an absolutely generous procurement of energy and there was no interest in the sale of heat. It has been changed and has been imposed as an obligation. Second. Contrary to what is being discussed here, a very strict mechanism has been put in place to waive the right to state aid. There's a wrong raw material... Thus, if there is wrong technology and if there is an incorrect, inadequate self-consumption in the event of irregularities in self-consumption. This is a strict definition. And so there's a refusal for this here... refusing the operation of the station... Why does one year later accept this criticism? But, I would like to say, it was the result of a very difficult compromise... in order to obtain these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. So they managed to accept them, and they work and will be realised. With regard to what Mr Zarina said about this IRR component, I can agree that there is a lot of room for improvement in this direction; there is a completely new method of limiting profits. We are currently in the working group and are negotiating with the regulator to take over this IRR monitoring system, either in part or in full. It seems that this would be the most effective model if the regulator would further identify these issues. So I can clearly agree with Mr Zarins that this is the direction in which we need to work. And we will. With regard to the questions that were asked about construction matters. Mrs President, I will not finally agree with you. As regards construction standards, out of the 20 building standards, three have been changed. Let me mention just one of them: this is a question of fire safety. Until now, it has not been allowed to build wooden buildings above two floors in Latvia, whereas now... The new construction regulation allows for the construction of multi-storey wooden buildings. This building... It is currently one of the fastest growing sectors in Europe and Latvia will be able to participate in it. And now a whole ecosystem with a multi-storey wooden building is being developed, and Latvian companies can participate in export, as well as build here in Latvia. As regards the Construction Law. Three amendments have been tabled in Parliament. And it seems to me that the Construction Law, as far as I remember myself in both parliamentary and ministerial practice, will never be completed. It is constantly changing. Three amendments have already been tabled. As regards the allocation of responsibilities, the amendment has also been completed. And I want to say that there is not only a building board in construction, there are very many participants in the construction process. One thing, however, I believe has been very good: the new construction information system has been completed. And immediately the Cabinet of Ministers will confirm the date of implementation ( hopefully from August). So it's on the whole agenda, it's starting. And it seemed very important to me that during the meeting the LPA was very high... all the managers of the building boards assessed the system and called for its implementation as soon as possible. What is more important to us is the question: where is the moment when it is mandatory to enter these documents into the system digitally? It has to be said that one problem here is that Riga Construction Board significantly avoids this issue. We hope that we will find a compromise in the coming year. The Riga Construction Board is, of course, not interested in any transparency, and it would like to keep the existing system long enough. So I want to say that I do not agree in this regard. The relevant regulations are changed and amendments to the Construction Law take place, and they take place in close cooperation with the industry. And I want to say that... I want to say, Mrs Izstrauta, that perhaps we have really paid less attention to building boards. That has been an important sector for me. The sector is growing at an enormous rate today - an increase of 35 per cent. There's something to keep! But there are also problems... there are huge problems in the sector. One is the shadow economy, and here the Ministry of Economics has worked very, very much, moving forward with a collective agreement that provides for minimum wages in the sector, provides for an electronic time record system and many other things. In total, 13 measures aimed at really new, completely different levels of cooperation in the sector, and I think this is very important. As regards construction. Yes, it is true: young people will be needed. So Rail Baltica will at least have to mobilise some 7000 people. This is inevitable. We are also going to work on balancing these issues, but in any case I do not see the industry shrinking, it will only grow in the coming years, and I do not see any problems here. I was asked about the future rental law. This is a long-awaited law, and it is a very important law. Thank you. The issue of tenants of denationalised houses was addressed. My position is very clear: we have to pay this debt, and I also presented this case to the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister also agreed at that point. It seems that a reservation has also been made to this issue in the budget. And so, as you remember, this is a total payment to the municipality together with the government: half to the municipality, half to the government. Since this debt has to be settled, there is no doubt about it. But there is also a second debt that we need to pass on to society: we need to create a clear rental market on clear terms. And in the law here, I don't see any cops. The law clearly defines the rights of tenants and tenants, and here it works. So, I think, this is a very important thing. Another third in this respect. I want to say another thing that we may have missed for many years. It's a housing problem. We saw how it is growing - this problem - at the moment when the government set up a programme for young families who have to buy apartments. The demand is enormous. So we have already met the needs of more than eight thousand new families. And another problem appeared, for which we really are not yet ready at this point, but it seems that the first solutions are. So we need new housing in the regions. New dwellings. People are coming back, too, in large numbers. I looked at it. The migration balance has improved by five thousand. People are coming back, they're looking for a new, modern place. Industry is developing very rapidly in the regions, and now we see even the new... ( Interface: ‘ Which region? ’) ) Valmiera, Smilten, Cesis... if we are watching, there is a huge increase in demand. There need several thousand new apartments. If we look at the same Latgale, the balance of migration has changed perfectly in Rezekne. There is now a neutral population growth. And I would like to say that this is linked to the rapidly increasing wage in Latvia. It's growing at 10, more than 10 percent a year. And we see that Estonia, which currently has an average wage of over EUR 1200, has a positive population growth. We also need to prepare for the same. And at the moment we have agreed with the Latvian Development Finance Institution Altum and the Prime Minister on the new rental apartment building programme of the municipality or government, first round. I hope that, in July, we will be able to start implementing this, and that is why I would like to say that such rental regulation is very important. This is very important: clear regulation of rent. And I would like to say that, with regard to what you mentioned, Mrs Stepanenko, these refunds, there is no doubt: they must be paid. It has been a government debt. Until the crisis, they were paid. After that, restoring... with this law... definitely that must be done, and I have no doubt about this. So that would perhaps be the answers to the questions I was asked. Finally, I would like to say that we have to look at the system as a whole. If we look at the OIC system as such. A year ago it was EUR 260 million. By reducing the aid to TEC-1, TEC-2, it was reduced to 180 million, i.e. a third. And when we see how hard medium-sized and small businesses are, because the big industry really managed to help and we see an excellent increase in industry... So it was decided to shift Latvenergo's extra profit to support the small and medium-sized sector in particular by reducing their costs by at least 16 per cent, and now, with a government mandate, a strong mandate, the task force is working to get us out of this OIC system, and so on 1 September I have to be in government with these proposals. So we do this, and thank you for the opportunity to speak here today, and I hope that you will decide wisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U46	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Subtotal: ‘ Second time! ’) ; dep. I.Zariņš: “For the first time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U47	As far as OIC is concerned, I am accustomed: when I come up with specific arguments and there are no counter arguments on these arguments, then try to discuss the message itself. Mrs Harju, specifically for you. I've seen this story. And when really people either don't understand what they're talking about, or they don't have to say what they're saying, then they choose such a strategy. It was already when I tried to do it almost ten years ago, still working in the regulator. When I went to the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Kampar, and showed me what would happen, and I put all of this in front of him, I was simply declared the enemy of national energy and Gazprom's agent. That was rhetoric. It has not changed much for all these years every time it is touched. And that is why I stress that it is an afer, politically covered, which has been implemented for years. Not a mistake. Because it's a mistake if a person didn't know something. It was clear here where all this was going, and for target years it was implemented. That is why it is a politically covered afer, which is still going on. Go on. What you said... and called for my role as OIC. Here I have to explain to you again. You claim that you've already been expert in this field. To explain: the regulator has a very narrow, very specific role with regard to the OIC, which is imposed on him by law - to develop a methodology. This methodology... In this case, he is like an accountant, who simply has to collect all these data, count them together and calculate how much their component then comes. That's it! In this case, he is like a doctor who comes to you and who measures your blood pressure and tells you: blood pressure is high. In this case, it is not the doctor’s fault that there is such a diagnosis. Just as he is a professional doctor, he gives you a fair diagnosis, telling you how high blood pressure is. Here's the whole role of the regulator! To blame him for the fact that he is guilty of the fact that you have high blood pressure is absolutely out of place. While working in the regulator, I personally went to the Cabinet of Ministers and objected to these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers already when this generous support was made (you can take the verbatim reports of the Cabinet of Ministers). The regulator was simply told: “The regulator you are dealing with?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is a political issue, you have no right to speak about it at all." So, for my part, I have been working on this for many years - and here, too, in the Saeima. The fact that I haven't always been dealing with this OIC story... Well, there's so many aphers here, so many jeeps... to accuse me that I would have been a passive Member who would not have been active here in the Saeima... I think even my furious opponents could not afford to say that. So many soaps you've cooked here that I just had little physical strength for everything, and I only caught up on this matter once again when journalists showed to the public: that's really the area! And then I thought there was an opportunity to show the whole society what is actually happening here. And thanks to these requests, it is my activity that that has started working on this issue. You say that it seems very strange to you, and you don't understand, "What is it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Ministry of Economics works, but these requests are coming!” You don't understand it because you've confused the causal link. The Ministry of Economics is working intensively precisely because there are these requests. Thanks to these requests, this work is ongoing, and the Minister has also confirmed this to you. Go on. You called for some of my interviews. Well, again - either you deliberately wanted to mislead the audience now, or you did not understand what you were talking about, because pricing and the OIC methodology - these are two different things. The tariff is something quite different. But it's a separate conversation. If you're interested, I can tell you specifically. Go on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “Sustainable!” ) On what the Minister for Economic Affairs said about these procedures. Minister, imagine how I feel. You're there, on the other hand, you're a whole department, but I'm one, and I have to deal with it all. I must also follow these rules of procedure. I work day and night to do it, and I'm sorry. ( Intercretion: “Love! ” ) Moreover, you already have to write down your answers; I still have to read them and understand what you have spoken there at all ( Dep. R.Balodis: “But you like it!” ), because these responses are usually very narrow, encrypted, incomprehensible, with hope that finally it will be Zariņš. But he doesn't think so, he doesn't feel so. And I can tell you, continue not to remain at peace. I'm just... (Applause) I'll help you deal with that OIC. And if you really want to deal with it, then it will be either like a springboard for a possible rebirth, or your guillotine. Depending on whether you are an old Unity or a New Unity. And if you are the “New Unity”, then you know well what you have to do to really be the “New Unity” and society to believe you. So far it seems you're trying to cover up the old one. And so there are all these problems too. Because basically, when you talk about the same task force that you called for, saying that there are high-level experts and so on... Yes, experts may be at a high level, but the main task is to give them what they are doing and what they are doing. You say: macroeconomic assessment. Johaidi, in 20 years - macroeconomic assessment! Well, good for that macro-economic assessment, but in parallel... the first one that should be is a legal assessment. Pull all these legal discrepancies out! Because it's your shortcut, with which you can make this system completely recyclable and end all this burden. You don't want to do this, you don't, but that's the first thing you should do. The second is a financial assessment of the justification for the grant of the aid. Because, in essence, if you are familiar with the opinion of the European Commission, a decision allegedly legalising this aid scheme (for which I am not convinced)... In fact, when reading this decision, it is obvious that what is agreed with the European Commission and what is actually being implemented in the country of Latvia are two different schemes. And perhaps there is a serious fraud here - that the European Commission has been cheated so that this generous aid scheme can continue. And if you now take this opinion from the European Commission and follow it up, then, apologies, you can resolve this OIC within a month, because it is obviously oversubsidised. And if we take into account the financial principles that the European Commission lays down, then it would appear that we have paid everything for a long time and that we should no longer have to pay billions. But you do not want to do this at all, and that is why we are talking today that it is a politically covered area that is still continuing by the Ministry of Economics. Next. You asked to submit to the Prosecutor General's Office... I've done all this before! All these aspects have been given... and, as you know, criminal proceedings are taking place. And today, in support of your proposal, I will also submit an application to the Prosecutor General's Office for self-consumption, for this apparent fraud, which is now covered by the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations by the Ministry of Economics, with a special, conscious amendment... Even though they see that they are in conflict with the law... so that the requirement of the law can be circumvented and not enforced. And here again we are talking about possible fraud of many million. And not just for fraud! It's about... If you caught all this now, the Ministry of Economics would start to check... what the Saeima confirms in writing... that they do not want to do so, in which case they should withdraw their authorisations. Then, perhaps, this story would have already come to an end. You don't want to do all these homework! Your team is working as a team of doctors who are afraid to diagnose the patient, but they all say: “Well, it’s cancer... We don't know how we're gonna treat it. It is so huge that expensive treatment procedures will be needed." Instead of simply leaving the sun, allow fresh air to inhale! And it would turn out that everything had passed away, there would be no illness anymore. Go on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Putniņš: “It’s enough!” ) I therefore call on the working group to... Legality assessment and justified financial support. ( From the group's Unity: 'Come on!' ) Unfortunately, none of this is done. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “It’s no longer funny!” ) And that is why we believe that our request is justified and we call for its support. On the other hand, if you do not support it today, it will serve as a real proof that this is a politically covered area that you will continue to enjoy. You have everything divided! Yesterday you covered the Afero of the Ministry of Justice, today here is the Ministry of Economics with your Afero... The feudal state continues to exist. Distributed Lands, every feudal bit of its own, society is shed, life continues! Colleagues! It can't last long! I very much hope that this will be resolved in the next Saeima. Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U48	The name to Member Inese Sustroutt, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U49	I will be very brief. The Minister said that the amendments to the Construction Law were submitted to Parliament. I've just tested it, it's not! So your employees have probably given you wrong information. In the spring... I think that there was a public consultation on these amendments in January. So theoretically, they were ready already in January; they could be submitted to John. They have not been submitted! Just checked news. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “Building is growing and flourishing!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U50	Name to Member Andris Morozov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U51	Colleagues! We have heard the Minister's answers. Interesting! And its answers were nothing again. I didn't hear the answer to my question. Mr. Asheraden, answer: What is happening to the “Liepājas metalurgs”? Why don't you support investors? Why are you not with them, and why do you allow the largest company in Kurzeme to be destroyed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U52	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U53	Minister, words will not be like that! In fact, the fact that there have been several pickets of tenants of denationalised houses, the fact that today even the sub-committee in the Saeima decided on possible amendments to the law that had been submitted almost, shows that the work has not been done qualitatively. And you have to admit it! This bill should have been already a set right for tenants, and you had to prepare a draft for the payment of compensation. You said today from the troupe that you would prepare it. But it is not clear when you will do it and whether you have not come to this Saeima sitting with the project. No, no? You'll just talk and then forget?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U54	I closed the debate. ( From the group Unity: “Juhu! ” ) Please call us! We will vote on the draft decision on distrust to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Ašeraden! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 48, refraining from - 2. The draft decision is rejected. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Mārtiņš Kazaks as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U55	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 19 June, the Board of Budgets and Finance (tax) of the Saeima examined the application of the Deputy President of the Bank of Latvia on the approval of Mārtiņš Kazaks as a member of the Board of the Bank of Latvia. Mārtiņš Kazaks as a professional authority has been confirmed at various levels. Since 2010, he has been the main deputy economist of the Swedbank Group; he is the main economist in Latvia, as well as the Head of the Baltic macro-economic research part of the Swedbank structure. The Saeima has also confirmed his professional authority, confirming him as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Although there was a discussion in the Commission, however, support was unanimous: all members of the Commission unanimously supported the approval of Mārtiņš Kazaks in his post. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to do the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U56	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Mārtiņš Kazaks as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. (Applause) Welcome to Mārtiņš Kazaks with high position! Thank you. On the agenda - draft decision “On the release of Zita Kupce from office of a judge of Zemgale district court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U57	Hello, dear colleagues! Yesterday, at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, the draft decision on the release of Zita Kupce from office of a judge of Zemgale district court was discussed. She requested in her application that she be removed from office as a judge at her own request. On this basis, and on the basis of the Law on Judicial Power, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported this draft decision and, at the same time, thanked Mrs Kupce for her professional activities. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite to release Zita Kupci from the position of judge of Zemgale district court by 21 June 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U58	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Zita Kupce from the position of judge of Zemgale district court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The Education, Culture and Science Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities” to be examined after the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The National Administration and Local Government Commission is asking the draft law “Amendments to the Election Law of the European Parliament” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to change the agenda of the sitting and to consider the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupation Museum of Latvia” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks to make changes to the agenda of the meeting and to consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Credit Register” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of State Administration and Local Government is asking to review the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks the draft law drafted by it “Amendments to the Law “On the Preservation, Use and Fixing of Documents of the Former State Security Committee”” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Education, culture and... So we decided about it. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days”” to be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? The agenda has been amended since Members have not objected to it. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board On the agenda - request of Members Ivars Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Sergeja Mirska, Raimonda Rubika, Andra Morozova, Janis Adamsons and Vital Orlovs to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden "Based on the validity and compliance of the "recompensation mechanism" provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 262 "Regulations on the production of electricity using renewable energy sources and the pricing procedure". Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U59	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. High Minister. Highly respected colleagues! The application board examined request No.40/Lp12 “Based on the validity and compliance of the “recompensation mechanism” provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 262 “Regulations on the Production of Electricity by Renewable Energy Sources and Procedure for Pricing””. The request was rejected by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the Commission not to support and vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U60	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U61	Yeah, this is one of the stories. This season last demand for OIC related. What is the story about? The story is about the same legendary regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that we are talking about, namely, with which attempts were made to implement an illegal scheme for self-consumption, an attempt was made to legalise the “indecently committed” violations, for which nothing is due - just warns, and you can continue it for half a year. And another story is about how overcompensation is calculated, what the Ministry of Economics told us as a hero story, how it fights with OIC. And one of these hero stories is that the Ministry will now start to prevent this overcompensation. When you get acquainted with how these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers provide for overcompensation, there are some interesting questions. In essence, one of the cases revealed in these Cabinet Regulations, which the Ministry of Economics has confirmed in writing, is that the calculation of this overcompensation, thus calculating this internal rate of return, does not take account of all the aid. The aid already received by the operator for his electricity production, which he has sold for years and which deserves this generous aid under the previous aid scheme, is not taken into account. That is, to be understandable. There have been several aid schemes. At the OIC this is the last story that we have and is basically starting in 2007-2010... depending on when the businessmen who had started their operations before... as you know, it could have been done since 1998... This aid for the previous scheme, for electricity... These formulae are not taken into account at all. Thus, the principle offered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs by its regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers is as follows. When a businessman comes back and seems to start calculating this overcompensation, he is taken into account for this calculation all the investments made during the previous period, while the aid he has received for the electricity generated is not taken into account in this formula. This, in turn, means that when calculating this internal rate of return, these future payments due to him can be significantly higher, as they will prove to have not been sufficiently compensated. That's one thing. That is the essence. On the other hand, the question that emerged in the context of this request - what about the European Commission? Because the Ministry of Economics says that it has coordinated this support with the European Commission. However, if we read the European Commission's decision... I think it's in point 77... The European Commission makes it very clear that the Latvian side has stated that when calculating this overcompensation, any aid is taken into account, so all aid is and it is purely logical that it should be. Because if we want to figure out what is then due to the economic operator so that he can work in accordance with the rules of European Union law, that is to say, to receive proportionate support rather than excessive aid, then all that has already been paid to him should be taken into account. And that is obviously in contradiction with these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. This is a contradiction with number 1, which shows that this request is justified. Objection number 2. Let's go! The Ministry of Economy, when calculating this cash flow... to those who are not clear, I will explain... This compensation mechanism looks as follows: When everything that the businessman has earned and will still earn, and all his expenses are put together, the appropriate formula is used to calculate what profit margin he would ultimately have to receive for all his activities. And on that basis, these future payments form - how high or low they should be to ensure this profit margin, the internal rate of profit, not to exceed nine percent. What is very interesting when calculating this cash flow? The net cash flow consists of its notionally, of two cash flows - from inflows and outflows. So, from expenditure and revenue. What's interesting? The regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers provide that these revenues are indexed with inflation rate, thus artificially fix them higher, thus making it possible to achieve more compensation for economic operators in the future. The Ministry of Economics has tried to state that there is no difference already between them, whether they use their indexation for expenditure or not, and this does not change their outcome in the end. When they were asked again in the protocol to confirm whether, in fact, as the Ministry of Economics claims in full seriousness, the amount of expenditure... The assessment does not change depending on whether inflation is taken into account or inflation is not taken into account; of course, they could no longer do so. That's the next thing. What else is interesting in this formula? How is this formula designed? It follows from the example provided by the Ministry of Economic Affairs that there is nothing to be added to these publications. Colleagues, so this businessman can put his jeeps in, say, his travels to the Maldives or Seychelles (depending on where he likes to go), and all of this will have to be paid by all of us. It's all going in there! That is what these regulations of the Ministry of Economic Affairs lay down, such a regulation that all these expenditures are justified and can be put in place. Finally, they also represent this OIC burden, with which the Ministry of Economics is currently fighting as heroicly as it told us. Here comes an interesting question once again, if we look at how these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been made. How was it hidden in these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers so that it would be legally possible? Where was the problem? The Ministry of Economics had to bring it in line with the European Commission, and the Ministry has told the European Commission that it is placing marks at a certain level. That means... so that the economic operator cannot place disproportionate amounts of calculations. And really, the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations... The first step also provides that, when making this overcompensation, account is taken of the marks at that level so that expenditure is limited in any way so that it does not become excessive. But then it is the next step, where it can no longer be seen that it is in line with the European Commission - that a businessman can challenge these calculations, he can come and say, 'You know, I do not agree with them!' He/she shall be entitled to submit his/her calculations on the basis of his/her actual costs. Moreover, this amount of aid which is due to him is already calculated on the basis of these actual costs which have been incurred in the previous three years. And if, over the last three years, he has successfully bought himself a jip or a mission to go and look at climate change in some tropical islands, we will have to pay the price. Moreover, there is still a year to come. The question is, how is this justified again? One - what has been agreed with the European Commission, the other - with the principles of the rule of law and the basic principles on which this aid scheme was established in general. And how relevant is it to the public interest? That's another thing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri and the deposit A.Loskutov’s intersacrements.) Go on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Žigāne: “No one listens to you!” ; dep. A.Klementjevs: “Everyone listens! Everyone is interested!” ) If we look at the European Union... The European Commission's harmonised aid scheme, then there's a condition where overcompensation... Even the Ministry of Economy has acknowledged that this aid has been excessively generous and that, for its part, it undertakes to prevent this overcompensation. It is about deadlines: it should be done within a month, it must come into force. On the other hand, the Cabinet Regulations provide that five years may pass. These businessmen who have worked, who receive this generous support... These regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers impose five years more as an opportunity that they can continue to work and receive... And only after these five years will the Ministry of Economics be entitled to make a conversion. Johaidi! What is it again?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And all of this is presented in full seriousness as a fight against the excessive burden of OIC! Colleagues! Well, sorry, it's just a total nihilism! A total denial of public interests or simply one very shameless lying and deception. Colleagues! These are just a few of the aspects. Another very interesting aspect that we discovered during the preparation of the request... I think it will be shocking for many. It turns out that support for TEC-2 is still not agreed with the European Commission. This means that we are still paying the TEC-2, the largest OIC beneficiary, illegally. It's okay! Of course, you can not support this request again. It is up to you to agree to this and to support and cover up these discrepancies.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U62	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Sergeja Mirska, Raimonds Rubika, Andra Morozova, Jānis Adamsons and Vital Orlovs' request to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Asheradens "Based on the validity and compliance of the "recompensation mechanism" provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 262 "Regulations on electricity production using renewable energy sources and pricing procedures"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 49, for - 3. The request is rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U63	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, The Foreign Affairs Commission examined this draft law yesterday. We work with document number 5084B. We received 11 proposals. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U64	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnzols... So Mr. Nunozole does not want to speak. Members support the proposal supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U65	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. And that was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U66	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U67	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U68	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U69	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U70	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U71	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U73	6. - Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U75	7. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U77	8 / 8 - Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U79	9. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partly supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U80	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U81	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U83	And finally 11. - Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U85	All the proposals were therefore examined and supported. And the Foreign Affairs Commission supported this draft law at second, final, reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I am calling for this to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U86	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 21, for - 1. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U88	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U89	Dear colleagues, For the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service”, 20 proposals were prepared, submitted and discussed in the Commission. 1. - the proposal from the committee responsible, which I ask for support on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U91	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Please support it, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U93	3. - the proposal from Member Chigan, which has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U95	4. - Member Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal, which the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U97	Next and the commissions... the proposal from the committee responsible, which I ask you to support...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U98	Proposal by the Legal Bureau
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U99	What, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U100	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U101	I'm sorry! Proposal from the Legal Bureau, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U103	The Commission's proposal is next.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U104	No, six. - The Member's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U105	The proposal by Viktoras Valaiņš, which has been partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U106	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U107	7. - the Commission's proposal, which I ask for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U109	The next one is the Commission proposal, which I ask for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U111	Mr Valaiņa's proposal is the next one that the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U113	Next, the Commission's proposal. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U114	Also 10. - the Commission's proposal - Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U115	Next, the Commission's proposal. Please support it, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U116	The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U117	The next item is the Commission proposal. I also ask for this support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U118	12. The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U119	13. - Commission proposal. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U120	The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U121	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Viktoras Valaiņš' proposal, which the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U123	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U125	16. - Commission proposal. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U127	17. - Commission proposal. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U129	18 - Commission proposal. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U131	The 19th proposal is from the committee. I also ask for this support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U133	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U135	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the third reading of the draft law on amendments to the Civil Service Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U136	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the law “On holidays, memories and celebrated days”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Boris Cilevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U137	Dear colleagues, The Commission proposes that the draft law "Amendment to the Act on holidays, memories and famous days" be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U138	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 4, for - 3. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U139	Thank you, colleagues. The Commission has examined and supported this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U140	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U141	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Brigmanis, who suggested that I also sign this bill, a court of law, as the eleventh. So I was just such a technical writer of 11, 12 or 13. Ten signatures were collected before that. However, I would like to draw your attention to this draft law because, you see, it has been a little funnyly recorded. Unlike all other holidays, famous and remembering days that are repeated every year and for which only the month and the date of the month are indicated, in this case also 24 September 2018 - the pastoral visit of His Holiness Pope Francisco in Latvia is mentioned. Of course, I understand that if this year was not recorded, we should, in fact, continue to celebrate this year, and that would not be logical. Maybe some transitional rules should be imposed or something else. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this draft law because, in similar cases, the Cabinet usually adopts an order and moves it to one of the next Saturdays. This year, for example, was April 30, which was Monday. September 24 will also be Monday. And 30 April was moved as a working day to Saturday - 21 April. In my opinion, a very logical solution that would also apply in this case. And then we should not hear accusations from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Welfare and the government as a whole, that the establishment of such a holiday is, in fact, prejudicial to the economy. In my opinion, once again, this idea should be implemented differently - not by law, but at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. Apparently, the Cabinet does not want to take this recommendation from Latgale municipalities into account, and therefore Members of the Union of Greens/Farmers are forced to bypass Mr Kučinska. I think it shows that Members do not trust their own Prime Minister. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Or my day!” ) And you say all the time that we demand the resignation of one minister, another minister, third minister, but you show yourself with this draft law that you do not trust your government. In 1993, when the previous one was here, unfortunately, the pope in that sun, as far as I can see, was also a holiday... not a holiday, but a free day from work. And I think we need to look at some of the experiences that were then solved. I certainly think that it could not have been a separate bill, as you are now doing. So in conclusion, I would like to say, once again, that the Cabinet of Ministers should deal with this. Secondly, in my opinion, this draft law is in a very ridiculous form. Of course I will not vote against it, but I cannot support such a ridiculous solution either. ( Insight: “What are you going to do? ” ) I will not vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U142	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U143	Dear colleagues, Following your and our activities in connection with this law lately, there are a number of proposals. I think it would be right for the last six months before the elections to be held to ban these laws from touching at all. Because what is happening is pure populism, and everyone understands it. But, of course, this time we cannot refuse Catholics. What if the Orthodox Patriarch comes? Will we respect the voters? But this time it is very good that it is 24 September, because then there will be one and a half or two weeks before the elections. It's a shame that this isn't October 5 or 4. That would be even better. The festival could then be started and continued in the polling districts. Colleagues, I understand your desire to please. But perhaps it is also worth reading, for example, an opinion that says that the price for your vote is 8.2 million. Well, it's hurled, of course, it's not a big money! But it's irresponsible. What you do is irresponsible! I understand you think that, as a result, people will vote for you. But it would be legally correct to foresee that if the leaders of spiritual denominations come here, then we have a holiday: the Dalai Lama arrived - the holiday, the Orthodox patriarch - the holiday... And then let us live happily. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Let’s not be simple!” • laughter.) Every day, it's a holiday!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U144	The name of the Member, John Crag.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U145	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, Of course, I wasn't serious here... talk a lot (interfaces.) , but I think just have to answer some... explain. Because, of course, the closeness of the elections is constantly mentioned here. ( Insight: “What is different?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Yes, 4 October will be elections, it’s nothing new. You see, honourable colleagues, it's a month, it's a year, and we start to think about what has happened to us at that time. For some, this will obviously be a very important event - this October elections. I understand that this is something that is constantly mentioned here... But I'll tell you honestly - I'm going to have a pope's visit going to mean more than these events in October because, in order for the pope to come to Latvia at all, this question, to this visit, was worked for two and a half years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Why do you ask for a holiday at the last moment?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And no one knew clearly whether he was coming or not. The visit was carried out in various formats. The Pope was invited by the President of Latvia, the Pope was invited by the Prime Minister, the Pope was also invited by the Latgale people. However, there was no clear answer. It was not clear if he would or would not be. And it is the pope's decision that he will arrive on September 24th. He could also come after the elections. And even if it were after the elections, we would have called for a holiday because, weeds, it is an opportunity to meet the pope. The Pope travels to Latvia to celebrate the centenary of Latvia with us and to thank God - and we can do so! - that we have the gift of freedom that we have received; that we have our own country, that we have our own parliament. That we can climb this platform and tell us a lot. And now you can ironize me -- maybe I'm telling you... You know, I'm not going to convince anyone - vote by your conscience. - that this day must be a holiday. This day must be a holiday because the people of Latgale, the clergy of Latgale, have expressed this desire for a holiday. And it's not like a day like... here a few weeks ago there was this debate about the holidays... that you don't want to insult any profession... may be a kindergarten holiday or builder or more... There was a great debate between the dictators. Sorry, this is a unique opportunity to meet a man - the spiritual leader of the world. And, you know, looking at your old heads (I'm talking about my head too), I want to say that you may not have such a possibility for the second time. You see, dear Members, you have big plans, big intentions, but very often there's only a chic from these ideas, and you don't understand why that is: "We had a very good idea, a very good wish." I can tell you that because you have no blessing, there is no blessing for what you want to do. But when you meet the pope, you will be able to receive this blessing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “The church is separated from the country!” ) Of course, those who do not accept it will be able to dig potatoes. Well, please, well! Or go to the mushrooms... The pope's visit is very important in several respects. Firstly, it is an international recognition. During the Pope's visit Latvia will be given the attention of the whole world. There will be a large number of foreign journalists coming to Latvia who will write and share their experiences here. The Pope will arrive in the Baltics at the time these small Baltic states celebrate their centenary. It is very encouraging, not so often the pope travels around. As I said, honourable colleagues, many of you may not be able to do so again. With the third such invitation, the pope has publicly appreciated the values of our country and the spirit of the people. The pope arrives on a country visit, but the main goal of his visit is to meet the people. And that is why it will be very right for a people to be present at the pope rather than the people to watch television or read somewhere on the Internet that the pope has said. And these men, this people that shall be there, shall be blessed. You can't believe that. The pope wants to see the people, to talk, to pray together. And if you take part in such a mission, it has quite a different force. And all those who asked for a holiday to be announced think that this holiday must be so that anyone who wants it can meet a high guest unhindered or at least watch their screens. Holiday is also important from the organisational point of view of the event. We now see Riga. You can't get anywhere, hundreds of cars... If it's a holiday... The Pope will also visit the Riga Dome, and I think many of you will also attend the Dome Church... I think that every person who wants to do so should be given the opportunity to participate in this unique and religious event that is very important to a person. Since the main event, the Holy Mise, will be celebrated in the international harmony of Aglona Our Lady, most Christians will have to take a very long journey to Aglona, to the place of the event. And it takes time. That is why I am asking for support for making this day a holiday, because next year it will not have to be celebrated, and next year there will be no populism... I would like to say thank you to everyone who understands the importance of this day and Pope Francisco's visit to our country. And thank you once again to those who will support this holiday! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U146	Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U147	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I think the idea that this historic event, when the pope arrives in Latvia, should be supported... there must be a date which at least Christians, and therefore Latvia as a whole, would have a free day. Prior to that, the ministries said that this could be dealt with in such a way that only municipalities in Latgale set a holiday for their employees, which of course is completely unacceptable, because the holiday would only be for those people who live and work in Latgale and only for those who work in municipal structures. In other words, private companies would not have a holiday. So it is not to be supported, it is not the solution. Next. Just now, Mr. Klazka said that the Pope has been invited by the President of Latvia, the Prime Minister, and that is not the case yet. Then why can the Prime Minister not make a logical solution at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers order? I can't understand that at all. Tell me honestly, the Union of Greens and Farmers: Kučinskis doesn't listen to you anymore! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “No! What to do?” ) Thank you. Next. We, the Group of the Regions of Latvia, are going to invite Kučinski to visit us in summer (Interface: “The Pope needs to be invited!” ) because we have, of course, had many questions for him. I think I will personally call on him to make a sensible decision in this case. And you too, both the Union of Greens and Farmers, the Unity and the Nationals, try to force Kučinski to listen to you and make a sensible decision! And then, probably in September, we have this law as a matter of urgency - I will say, brothers, what you now want to adopt! - Can we get it out of here...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U148	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U149	Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U150	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - 4, for - 2. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U151	Madam President, The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U152	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the Commission? There is therefore no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - 5, for - 2. The law is passed. (Applause) On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U153	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Colleagues! The Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima reviewed and prepared for the third reading the draft law “Amendments to the law on the regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications”. Three proposals have been received. See page 6. 1. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U155	Page 52. 2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U157	Also 3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U159	All the proposals have been examined. I call on the honourable Saeima to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U160	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law on Amendments to the Communication Act, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U161	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has concluded work on amendments to the Law on Communication. Three proposals have been received for the third reading. 1. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. I've been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U163	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is also editorial. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U165	And finally 3. - Proposal by the Legal Bureau, which provides that the law shall enter into force on 1 September 2018. This was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U166	Mr Schic, will you have three minutes to debate? ( Milestones.) So Mr. Schic does not want to debate. Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U167	Therefore, on behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call for support for the amendments to the Communication Act at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U168	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Communication Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on gardening, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inguna Rībena.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U169	Colleagues! Three proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law on the Law on Gardens. 1. is the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Arnis, and this is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U171	2. is the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Arnis, who has been partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U172	Thank you. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U173	3. is a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U175	Please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U176	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on gardening! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U177	Hello, colleagues! We work with document No 5107 “Amendments to the Law on State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Strengthening them in Land Registers”. A total of four proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. After a long debate, no support has been given.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U178	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U179	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U181	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U183	And 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U184	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U185	Thank you. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U186	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Rights of Land Property of the State and Municipalities and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Honourable Members and Saeima staff! I invite you to gather for the traditional Johns Leasing in the Red Hall of the Saeima! The arrival of all Lagos and Johns is almost mandatory. Name for the statement to Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U187	Dear colleagues, The meeting of the European Affairs Commission will begin at 12.30 a.m. on our premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U188	Name for the statement to the Member Gaid Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U189	Colleagues from the Legal Commission! Legal Commission meeting at 12.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U190	Mrs. Chigan, maybe you can hold a committee meeting at least 12.45? Come help! Commission meeting: 12.45 p.m. The Committee on European Affairs will meet at 12.45 p.m. Name Gunārs Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U191	Colleagues, not registered: Inesis Boķis, Einars Cilinskis, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Inese Laizāne, Ainars Latkovskis... yes, Anrijs Matīss, Aivars Meija, Rihards Melgailis, Renārs Putniņš, Jānis Ruks, Veiko Spolitis, Jānis Upenieks and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U192	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U193	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! On June 21, 2018, the Saeima is holding its meeting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Crowd-Publishing Companies”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U194	Colleagues! See amendments to the Creed Company Law. We have received 11 proposals for the third reading. Proposal 1 - Proposal by Mr Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, which provides for cases in which a municipality may or, on the contrary, may not be involved in a credit institution... to invest the savings income in the share capital of the company. It is partly supported, included in 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U195	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U196	2. - a proposal from the responsible commission - Budget and financial (tax) commissions. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U198	3. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U199	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U200	4. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U202	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U203	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U204	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U206	7. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U208	8 / 8 - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U209	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U210	9. - a proposal from the responsible commission - Budget and financial (tax) commissions. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U212	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U213	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U214	And 11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U216	Colleagues, we have examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U217	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Creeds Companies”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U218	Dear colleagues, Amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations. The Legal Commission received four proposals and these are essentially linked to three strands. The first is to raise awareness of aggressive driving; the draft law has been supplemented by three points, namely, about unnecessary rapid braking, about drifting where it cannot be done on the roads, and about driving on rear tyres (cycles, tricycles and quadricycles). In other cases, for reasons of road safety, there is a slight increase in the administrative penalty and a significant increase in the penalty for the abuse of children. Consequently, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I am asking 1. - Mrs Stepanenko's proposal is not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U219	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U220	2. - The legal commission's proposal - please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U222	3. - The legal commission's proposal - please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U224	And 4. - The legal commission's proposal for the date of entry into force of the law, that is, the day after its announcement - please also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U226	Consequently, all the proposals submitted to the draft law have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U227	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on the processing of personal data, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U228	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the proposals submitted for the third reading of the draft Law on the Processing of Personal Data. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is related to the proposal of 9 and intends to supplement the tasks of the State Data Inspectorate by stating that it gives an opinion to the necessary institutions. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U230	2. - a proposal from the Legal Commission to supplement the draft law by providing that the State Data Inspectorate shall publish on the Internet website information on infringements and prevention of data requirements of legal persons governed by public law, their institutions and officials and other public bodies. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U232	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which provides for the extension of the right to inspect data by providing that it has the right to request and receive independent and impartial opinion of experts within the framework of the examination. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U234	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U236	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U238	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U239	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U240	7. - a proposal from the Legal Commission to add the title of the article to the information obligation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U242	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, editorial nature. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U244	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs relating to proposal 1, namely the body entitled to accredit the certifying authority. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U246	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Minister Rasnač's proposal, editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U248	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U250	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U252	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which provides for clarification of the legal provision on prescription for bringing an action for infringement of the data regulation. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U254	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, stating that, in relation to the processing of data carried out for scientific or historical research purposes, national legislation may provide for derogations from the Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U256	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U258	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U260	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides that until the entry into force of a separate law on the processing of personal data, certain provisions of the Law on the protection of personal data shall apply. And it is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U262	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U264	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U266	And 20. - a proposal from the Legal Commission stating that the law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U268	Therefore, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U269	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final, reading of the draft law on the processing of personal data! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U271	On the agenda - Draft Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U272	Dear colleagues, We shall continue to refer to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health” (No 25/Lp12). Third reading. Last time, we examined two proposals that were partly supported and included in Amendment 3. The proposal was drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs and has been endorsed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U273	Members, I would remind you once again that the Saeima has decided on proposals 1 and 2 earlier. 1. - supported. 2. - partially supported, included in proposal 3. There is now proposal 3 on the agenda - the proposal from the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U274	Hello, colleagues! Unfortunately, the commission responsible has not acted correctly in the majority decision of the Saeima. In particular, I would like to remind you that more than two years have passed, and colleagues certainly have forgotten this discussion, as it was when it was supported 1. - My proposal and that of Member Inga Betes. What did we include in this proposal? We provided that a woman who wishes to stop pregnancy may, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, receive free advice not only to medical persons mentioned in the second reading, but also to other specialists, in particular a psychologist who is not a medical person, a social worker who is not a medical person, as well as a lawyer (if the Cabinet of Ministers includes lawyers in this group of specialists). What has the commission done? Unfortunately, it has distorted the text already supported, and it must be said, in a rather peculiar way - it has included the words "to another specialist", which the Commission had previously supported, but has put in brackets this range of other specialists, deliberately narrowed it to the version approved at second reading, so - to medical subjects. Colleagues, we have already decided once that a woman chooses to whom person she receives this consultation, without narrowing it down to the hospital. It was our decision. I therefore believe that this part, in particular the fifth part, in which this provision is included, would, in fact, not have been put to the vote, because it would, by its very nature, run counter to the scope that has already been adopted in proposal 1. I therefore call for this proposal to be split into two parts so that there is no misunderstanding. One part is the introduction, with the exception of the fifth and sixth paragraphs. A fifth part shall be put to the vote separately. Thus, we could sort this provision according to the decision of the Commission on the procedure for the extraction, processing, storage and distribution of sex cells referred to in the sixth paragraph and remain on the already voted version, because we, the majority, decided that the range of these specialists is wider than that currently proposed. My call is not to support it in this wording, to divide and to vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U275	Thank you. So the proposal has been made to divide this proposal into parts and to put it to the vote. This will have to be decided by the Members. Does Mrs Barch want to talk about this proposal? Dividing? Thus, one Member for, one for, one for, and one for. Yeah, about the division. You want to bring together both of these debates, both on division and on the proposal? Thank you. The name of Member Aija Barch.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U276	Highly respected members of the Bureau! Dear Members, Honourable Members! Thank you, Mrs. Mourniece. I refer to both of these issues and call on honourable fellow Members not to divide motion 3 into parts. Because in essence, if you look at it, it's the same thing. I don't know. Obviously we still need to include someone else... and that means that we will prolong work on this law again, but to be honest, it is already a “long way to climb”. I call for the 3rd proposal not to be divided into separate parts. And why? I will try to tell you, my fellow Members, about the whole proposal 3. So the Social and Labour Affairs Commission worked very hard with the Prime Minister, addressing the Ministry of Health and the Ministers of Health so that our draft law would include a single register of sex-cell donors. Because we have a large number of medical establishments that perform these manipulations, but unfortunately each one of these medical establishments makes its own register. Thus, for several years we do not have complete information on this. In the Cabinet, when examining the reply to the Social and Labour Commission... We have been told that a single register of donors of sex cells is still to be supported. And the time period... This period is reflected in the draft law proposal 18 - the transitional provisions. And that's July 1, 2019. The idea that the manipulations carried out by medical institutions in all previous years will, of course, be included in a common register with respect to confidentiality. This is very important. These requirements cannot be fully implemented at present due to the lack of a single register. Dear colleagues, The draft law also provides for other important additions and amendments in the field of sexual and reproductive health. It is therefore very important today to adopt a draft law at third, final, reading. Otherwise, the draft law will remain pending and we will only be able to think whether or not the next Saeima will take over the draft law. But the very essence: at the very beginning, when drafting laws, the Cabinet of Ministers had a clear message to the parliament that we can import or export sex cells. It is a question of a ban or an authorisation. And since the first reading was adopted, which was a long time ago, we have not been able to decide on it. I therefore call on honourable fellow Members to take the bill very carefully today.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U277	Thank you. Colleagues! Let us conclude the debate and then decide how to deal with this proposal in whole or in part. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U278	Mrs. Barch! I very much respect you as a highly qualified professional, but I have to say that in this case you have acted manipulatively. I agree with everything you say about the register of sex-cell donors. Absolutely! Its rules must be adopted, there are no questions. But say, please, as a leader, why has this issue been pulled in the length for more than two and a half years? In February 2016, I sent the Commission a reply to the question of what could be the wording that would be harmonised within the Commission. I had asked the Legal Bureau whether this version would be in line with the decision that had already been taken, and whether this could be the proposed alternative version, which also included the register of donors of sex cells in it. The reply from the Legal Office was: ‘Yes, there could be’. At the beginning of this year (I don't remember exactly a month now, but it could have been in February or March) I was asked once again by your committee consultant what my opinion would be on the version that is now being proposed. I said: ‘What else do you ask for an opinion on a version that is not correct, in line with the decision taken?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ And I reminded me of the same thing again. And in this regard, the register of the donors of sex cells. When Mrs Čakša came to the political group to take office when she was nominated, she was asked: “Sorry, please, when will this register be introduced, which is really vital for us to remove from the agenda any problems relating to this issue and the consequences of which we are fighting at the moment?” It was answered that this register should be held in May 2017. It is June 2018, but there is no such register yet. Mrs. Barch! I call once again for two important things not to be mixed up. One concerns the possibility for a woman to be consulted, and here you are aware - I do not know if you or other colleagues have done so, but it has been done deliberately! - you have narrowed this circle by lobbying the medical services. Let us not do that! Let's just not do it! ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U279	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U280	This paragraph or the article carries a very high information load and sales load. I would like to remind all our colleagues that the law was adopted in September 2005, and the law more than 12 years ago records clearly and lightly and in Latvian that the infertile family register, the medical fertilization register and the register of the donors of the sex cells are set up in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers. The administration has been fooling us with this case for 12 years for reasons beyond my grasp, until we now say, “You need to make a single register!” It has never been said that there should be two registers! And it's about what's going to be the next issue that the civil service's treasured... on a completely unified register, a completely unified register. Yeah... The institution must have misunderstood the norms of the Education Law. The question is, therefore, that the register must be, and the register is the one from which all its problems arise, because the law, the article of which we do not change, is clear and clear that donor materials are to be destroyed if more than three children are born in Latvia from this donor. Such records have not been in place for 15 years. The second point that is being raised is about the specialist. Yes, as a medical surgeon, of course, I'm more interested in medical matters. Of course, it is very normal that the offer is made to a psychotherapist, gynecologist and other health professionals. But the woman who chooses this course also needs other specialists. I don't know if it should be put inside, and maybe by voting... But yes, it is also acceptable for a woman to be consulted by a lawyer, a social worker and other specialists, going to the end of pregnancy and so on... But my proposal: in order not to confuse the most important one, to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U281	'For' or 'no' vote, Mr. Schic? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “He himself doesn’t know!” ; dep. M. Schics: “About!” ) About. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U282	Dear colleagues, The accusations to the commission chairman that she would tow the length of the adoption of the law are neither in place nor in time. I would like to remind you that this draft law was already presented to the Saeima in the previous parliamentary term, and when the first proposals were put forward, we asked: "Let us adopt regulation so that clinics can import and export embryos, and then we will talk about your other proposals." Your attitude to this draft law was that we were forced to stop examining this draft law in the previous term and take it now. You did not want to split up and to discuss this issue seriously.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U283	The name to Member Aija Barch, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U284	Dear colleagues, We are back in the same situation as we were when the draft law in 2016 was ‘ taken off the track’ because of the contradictions. We're back right there! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “That’s it!” ) And I am very sorry, my fellow Members, that I are now starting to have such a false (probably unfounded) suspicion that there is some force or election that this law is not adopted at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “We will accept!” ) That's right! That's right, honourable colleagues! Because what are we talking about? We are talking about the fact that a pregnant woman who wishes to artificially stop her pregnancy has the possibility of being consulted by a family doctor or another specialist - a psychotherapist, gynecologist or another person trained to provide such advice. The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the content of this training programme and the arrangements for providing training. Dear colleagues, If we need the support of a social worker, we have strong social services in Latvia, and this support will be provided. But ending a pregnancy, colleagues, if I properly understand the substance of the matter, is a medical process, not social manipulation. I call for the vote on the 3rd package.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U285	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U286	Dear colleagues, I'm opposed to Mrs Barch: a social worker is not a medical person. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) That's right! And by supporting your proposal, we are actually excluding a woman from the right to receive advice from any other specialist, from any other specialist who is not a medical person. Colleagues! I'll just be clear... I can see that there's a lot of dust now... For the sake of clarity, I will ask my colleagues who, in the past, voted in favour of the motion by the majority of the Saeima, to stick to the fact that... to support the debtor's proposal to divide proposal 3 into parts. May nothing be confused if you have voted in favour of the first proposal. I call on you to do exactly this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U287	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U288	Dear colleagues, On February 11, 2016, when the Saeima last examined this bill, I stood here in this platform and told you about the meaning and nature of the first proposal. The point and the essence of the first proposal was exactly as colleagues mentioned here - to allow a woman who has doubts about whether to put her child in the world, to choose the advice of a specialist who can best dispel her doubts and eliminate them. And not about the medical - abortion - procedure for a woman is the most common question; she has the most questions about how she can raise this child, how she can support her; where she will live, what benefit she will receive and whether she will receive at all; how she will receive support from the father of the child, who may not want to support the child. Women's questions are often not medical. Dear colleagues, On 11 February 2016, our colleagues Jānis Ādamsons, Gaiddis Berzins, Inga Bite, Mārtiņš Bondars, Andris Bikiķis, Einārs Cilinskis, Jānis Dombrava, Aleksandrs Jakmirovs, Ritvars Jansons, Guntis Kalniņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Nellija Kleinberga, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Kārlis Krēsliņš, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Gunārs Kūtris, Inese Laizāne, Ilmars Latkovskis, Aivars Meija, Sergejs Mirskis, Romanas Moundiņš, Imants Vadnieks (Dep. J.Viļums: “All good people!” ), Igors Pimenovs, Arvīds Platopers, Sergejs Potapkins, Edgars Putra, Artis Rasmanis, Ivans Ribakovs, Raimonds Rubiks, Jānis Ruks, Inguna Ribena, Jūlija Stepanenko, Inguna Silver, Silvija Šilfa, Edvins Šnore, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Trupovnieks, Jānis Tutins, Juris Vectirāns, Juris Viļums (Dep. J. Viļums: “Well, I told you all the good people!” ) and Ivars Zarins supported proposal 1. Colleagues! You who supported Amendment 1 ask you to support Imants debtor's proposal to break down 3. - the Commission's proposal - ( Dep. H.Abu Mary: “We will not divide! Let's not split up!" ) and reject the fifth paragraph (Dep. H.Abu Mary: “Let’s not divide!” ), because the fifth is in contradiction with what the Saeima decided on 11 February 2016. Colleagues! If we do not do this today, it will be a violation of the legislative procedure. This law will be adopted in violation of the meaning and essence of the Saeima roll of order, changing the vote of the Saeima in February 2016, in which case there is a very high risk of legitimacy of this law. Please divide this proposal and vote in instalments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U289	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U290	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We are going to direct this draft law to the third parliamentary term. The original objective was to export and import sex cells. And that's it! That is what we need internationally! But it's covered with all kinds of proposals. This proposal. For three years, the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima fought against the incomprehensible opposition of the Ministry of Health regarding the establishment of a register of sex cells. I don't know what the reason is. Surely there were some reasons that we did not know. Finally, it has been achieved that this register will be an integral part of the electronic common accounting system. We will not allow young, inexperienced women to be used countless times to harm their health. The health inspection will control it. One point. On this proposal by the Debtor and Bee. Dear colleagues, We have discussed this many times. In the Ministry of Health, in the Ministry of Welfare, in the municipalities, everyone says that it is not possible to regulate the social and municipal sphere by health laws. This will simply not work for those other areas. Yes, I agree with my colleagues Indebtor and Bite that there is a need for a multidisciplinary team - gynecologist, family doctor, social worker, psychologist... but all of this can be determined only by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, with which the entire field is overseen. By medical law, you cannot force a social worker to work. I call on you not to leave this law to the next 13th Saeima, not to divide anything, because we cannot divide today! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “Let’s go!” ) Yes, the piece that the Debtor wants to remove is not what he wants. We should therefore stop viewing today and hold extraordinary meetings of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “It will no longer happen!” ) This will no longer happen, Mrs Barch says, and I am afraid that the majority of the members of the Committee on Social Affairs will remain in their opinion, in their position, because we have gone all this thorny way. So I ask you to support the Commission's drafting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U291	Name of Member Līga Kozlovsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U292	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, That is what I would like to say on this particular point. I'm not a lawyer. I'm a doctor. In addition, a family doctor. And family doctor MK Regulations No.268 determine teamwork. I worked with both a social worker and, if necessary, with a lawyer, I worked with a gynecologist and also with a cardiologist, if a woman has special heart problems, with all the specialists that a particular woman needs in order to protect her right to make a decision on the one hand and to give her advice on the other. It's a supporting, clear track. If this track needs to be further strengthened by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, we are strengthened by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers! But on this article - Article 5 - which the Commission has explained and given us as such - I must say confirm that, as a doctor, I have certainly voted with both hands. Here there is both a clear position on the establishment of the register and a clear position on the team's work with regard to a woman's decision on the possibility of an end to pregnancy. This is a very clear statement, and I call for a strong vote in favour of this Commission decision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri: “Thank you!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U293	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris. (Interface: ‘Speak from a legal point of view! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U294	Dear colleagues, I'm really going to talk like a lawyer this time. If we look at Amendment 3 and if we now divide this proposal into three parts... The part that Inga Bite is calling for not to be supported and on which Mr Debtor also said that its wording is not what he would have wanted... If we exclude this part - the fifth paragraph - this means that we do not provide in this law for a state-paid option to seek advice. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “It’s not!” ) At or with the doctors, at the treatment of the persons referred to there. This will not be the case if we delete it. On the other hand, he cannot agree with Mr. Zeruks that the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to provide a training programme for other specialists, unless other specialists are mentioned in this section. There are well-listed professions. I call for support now for the package of proposal 3, as it is a step forward. If, on the other hand, other specialists are to be included in this section, we weigh the case and in the future we include other specialists. I agree, perhaps we also need psychologists, lawyers and the like. Otherwise, we generally delete the possibility of obtaining the possibility of a national consultation. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U295	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U296	On behalf of the Commission, please vote in favour of the 3rd package.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U297	So there is a proposal to divide the proposal of proposal 3 - the Social and Labour Commission - into parts. We must decide on this by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the partial examination of the proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal to examine proposal 3 in parts is not supported. So we have to vote in favour of 3. - a proposal from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U298	Thank you, colleagues. The proposal tabled by Member Smilten is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U299	Members don't mind... Let us start a debate. Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U300	I am sorry, this proposal, the proposals 6 and 7 are almost identical, the same. Unfortunately, the Commission did not support it, so... The register was not clear. But you've already heard the chairman of the commission today... We hope that there will be a single register with 1 July next year. Fear that some women may unfortunately be used as a source of business to export or sell their eggs will not be possible anymore, as there will be a register. Consequently, both the proposal and the proposals 6 and 7 speak of an unborn woman. We don't want to discriminate... You have seen - today there were representatives of many organisations outside the Saeima House and there was no need to discriminate against women as an unborn woman. I will say, as a doctor and also as a Member of the Saeima, that this law has been in place for two years... We've been working for more than two years... Last... No, not last year, but in June 2016, we took it off the agenda - precisely because of this proposal. No scientific, medical study proves that if a woman does donate her eggs, she does not have any medical problems. There was a discussion about whether or not a particular medicine is being prepared before this procedure, which could cause or increase the risk that a particular woman could get, for example, cancer. There are no such studies; there is no scientific evidence for this. That's the number one. Number two. We cannot discriminate against unwed women to donate their ova, such as a family member who cannot have a child, or a friend who cannot give birth. I think this is a violation of human rights, so I am calling for... these proposals, as well as 5 and... What was that? Six and seven, I think... Proposals 6 and 7... They're the same... So I am calling for the 'no' committee vote. ( Milestones.) 5. - it's not... I am talking about 4, 6, 7. ... ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U301	Name of Member Inga Bite. ( The ring of noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U302	Dear colleagues, At the moment, we have a choice between the actual three options. One option is what the Minister for Health Guntis Belēvičs has offered at the time and what has actually been supported by the Commission - that sex cells could only be donated by pregnant women. In this respect, we have seen a great many protests here, at the door of the Saeima House, in the media and everywhere else. The other is the option offered by Hosama Abu Meri: “We don’t do anything! Let everything stay as it is: the same barrack as happens; women can go to hand over their sex cells as much as they want, because there are enough clinics, they are becoming more and more. And let everything be as it is.” And now the third option that I propose to support in the next proposal, namely two things. The first is to increase the minimum donation age (whether a woman has or has not given birth), to increase it to the age at which, on average, the first children are born in Latvia. Why? Because sex cell donation is actually a possibility that a child will come from these sex cells. And so you need to know what it means to hold your child in your hands and what it means to realize that your child may be born to someone else. And it's possible from this age. And the next one proposed by this proposal: one person can donate sex cells once. The law provides that one human’s sex cells can be created, maximum, up to three offspring, and is completely sufficient for one donation. I ask for support for Amendment 5. But as this resolution is at the moment, I am speaking on Amendment 4, asking for support to be given to Amendment 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U303	The name of the Member, Aija Barch, on the fourth proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U304	Dear colleagues, I will refer to Article 17 of the Law on the Choice of the Donor of Sex Cells. Proposals 4, 5, 6 and 7. And I'll start with 7, combining all together. Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, Karina Ploka (at that time - Korna), calls for the word “born” to be deleted in Article 3 of the draft law. And that is the question of which there are a lot of discussions and why the Commission was also not ready to remove this word from the bill at all this time. We fought for a long time, as Mr. Gauluk said, with the Ministry of Health, the National Health Service and along with gynecologists, we took the committee meetings on several occasions until we reached this register with 1 July next year. Thank you, fellow Members, for your support of Amendment 3. Consequently, as a Member, I asked the Commission to support the Commission's decision on proposals 4, 5 and 6, which the Commission did not support, but 7. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, whose commission has not supported... Please change this decision and support Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U305	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U306	Sometime I... I would also like to express my views on proposals 4, 5 and 6. Our data presented to us in committee meetings shows that we remain 10 thousand less every year, Latvia loses 10 thousand people every year. That is why I do not understand why we are so keen to support someone who wants to risk his or her reproductive health. I have a great request: to understand that we are not, in reality, a homo sapphile (a man of wisdom), we all so strongly believe that we are a homophile. Well, 10 to 20 percent of our actions are based on our own decisions. The rest are reflexes, instincts, childhood injuries, public consciousness and motorism. And if we want to insist that we are a homo-sap, then you would be advised to enter YouTube and find such a case: “Most people are sheep.” There the girl is also asked, “Why do you get up for this walk?” - “Others do it!” “Well, but it’s absolutely illogical that you’re doing it!” - “Yes, but the rest do.” And so we also understand why we are fighting against alcohol and smoking advertising, and we want to set stricter rules for gambling dependent on it. Well, we're not homospy, we're not people's smart! In my opinion, the intention to allow an unborn woman to donate her ova to support some business, so that someone would earn money at its expense.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U307	The name of the Member, Renar Putnins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U308	Mr. Nunozol! Brother! It should be noted that statistics show that every fifth of our country dies from problems and complications caused by alcohol or cigarettes. That is, on average, ten people die a day because of alcohol or because of cigarettes. It is a much, much bigger problem, which should pay attention to rather than prevent women from doing what they want themselves to do. The next stage, I think, would be that we would decide that women are unable to figure out... No, now we are talking only about the inability of women to decide what to do or not to do. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L.Čigāne: “Along with men!” ; dep. H.Abu Mary: “Yes, right!” ) Then perhaps they should not be allowed to be elected either! We're back in the Middle Ages, we're subtracting them from their right to vote, now! ( Internouncing call.) Well, what are we talking about? Let women choose what to do for them. Believe me, they're smart enough! In fact, they are wise and knowledgeable. Well, stop getting started! “ That’s right, ” he said. Right!” ) (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U309	Name of Member Līga Kozlovsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U310	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, So for several years now, there has been this sharp debate on what can be a donor of sex cells, both for women and men. There are only a few conditions. First of all, both men and women must be healthy. Second, there must be a reproductive age. I would like to remind you that the reproductive age - that is, the age at which children can be given birth - is much longer, according to the World Health Organisation. For women, it is between 15 and 49 years old. However, our legislation provides that a person is to be regarded as a child up to the age of 18. And why up to 35 years... Is that so? Because women eggs with 35 or more years of age are simply getting older. Different genetic mutations are possible. According to studies by the World Health Organization, the most healthy, forgive me, the sperm is also between 18 and 45 years old. In fact, that health criterion is included in this Commission decision and also in the decision of the Ministry of Health and the decision of the Ministry of Welfare. However, with regard to this one word - 'born' - I would certainly have been going through a broader discussion, but probably no longer need such a discussion, because Aia Barch's proposal, which is a new proposal from the Commission, and which provides for the withdrawal of the word 'born', is to be supported because it removes the tension. With the fact that women, forgiveness, are divided into two groups, sorted, we show some racist, forgive, direction of thinking. But if we take this word out, then we can certainly support this new Commission proposal. So I call for support for the proposal made by Aia Barch, which includes 7. - A proposal from the Ministry of Welfare. Thank you. I would like to call for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U311	Name of Member Inese Lībiņa-Ener.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U312	Dear colleagues, Thank you to Mrs Kozlovska, thank you to Mrs Barča, who have been explained here from the tribunal, and to Mr Abu Meri for having only, by nature, the discussion as a factor of whether or not a woman has given birth. Does Latvia have access to the Register of Childbirths in the World? Will we seal these women in the passport that they have or have not given birth? We're gonna do it? Let's go? Dear colleagues, What do you want from Latvian adults who make a decision? They can donate one of their two kidneys and donate egg cells, and it is important that Latvian medical care ensures both the procedure of registration so that a person does not harm his or her health and other conditions. The law-sharing of women, adults, babies and non-movers is humiliating. It's humiliating to stand here and discuss it, humiliating to look in the eyes of those women who are desperate, come to the Saeima House and say, "Deputies, put on common sense." It is not possible to determine by legal means whether a person has or has not given birth! You can't do that! There is no such world register of babies. What is happening here is, in my opinion, a poor political campaign with various racist features, as colleagues have already said here. I call and ask you not to use this platform for such purposes. And support Proposal No 7! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U313	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U314	President-in-Office. Colleagues! I'm not here to defend unborn women. I am here to defend the work of the Social and Labour Commission. Colleagues, you who have touched this problem twice in the parliamentary term are now free to speak as you feel like it is. We, the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, truly all these ‘cross-roads’ entered the chaos that prevailed in this business. In business, because it was provided by seven private companies and there was no control. And very often - very often! - women who have been donors of eggs entered public hospitals in gynecology units with restimulation syndrome. And some gynecologists tried to do something, object. The Latvian Association of Gynecologists and Obstetricians was the one who recorded the word “born”. Of course, it does not withstand any criticism, but it was a step of despair, and the commission kept it until there was nothing better. Now that we have voted on Amendment 3, this matter has been resolved. There will be a register. That is why this debate should no longer continue. You don't have to pull the stabs after the battle. Proposal No 3 deals with everything and this discussion does not need to be continued. I call for support to be given to the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare to delete the word 'born' and let's go! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri: “Death!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U315	Name to Member Juris Villums. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Vilim, tell me how right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U316	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Please, your patience and peace, because I understand that I must now try to correct the mistakes that you have made because of the cries. First of all, I would like to say that no one needs to list the names of all the Members who have once supported the principle that only a woman who has given birth can donate. Among their names are mine. But by getting to know all this in more detail, talking to women, medical practitioners and so on, I have changed my decision and I want to support it... ( Internouncing call.) Pai, Pai... and I want to support the idea that we do not need to restrict women depending on whether or not they have given birth. I'm not going to go into all the stories. But now, ladies and gentlemen, a technical thing. You are talking about support for proposal 7 but not support for proposal 4. I think they are identical. They are identical - they foresee the same thing. Only each of them gets to the same end. In other words, if you support the fact that we do not restrict women, depending on whether they have or not given birth, and remove the word "blessed" from the outside, then you can vote for both motions 4 and 7. And in essence, if proposal 4 is supported, then proposal 7 will not have to be put to the vote because it is identical. On the other hand, there is a risk. If you do not vote on Amendment 4, then Proposal No 7 may in theory not be put to the vote, because that is exactly the same. So, in order to have no problems, just decide whether you are in favour of Amendment 4 and the free choice of women, or whether you are in favour of it. I hope that now you...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U317	Named Members of the Sylvia Shiff.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U318	Colleagues! If you agree that politics is a big money, then I could agree that this is a political issue. However, I have so far seen this issue as non-political in the sense that it is a monetary issue. Although my colleagues convinced me, and then I understood - yes, it is a business that makes good money. And all this time, while this issue is in our commission, I constantly tried to clarify it in the ministry. How, then, are they connected and how, then, are they earning from the business that they are so persistently unwilling to introduce this single register? I am also referring to this in the request from the Minister for Health for his resignation. But there's another thing here. There's another thing here. Another side that we cannot ignore. I'm Mom, and I'm Grandma. And I'm very concerned that these young, single girls who think they're going to have their youth and health all their life, treat this thing lightly, submit to this advertisement, this easy, quick money, and thus bemoan their health. I would never want my children or my grandchildren to get into this situation. I think no one wants that. I very much respect you, Mr. Putniņš, as a doctor. But I'm angry at you, my medical colleagues here! So, what are you taking? Why can't you either agree once, or each one to say their opinion, what about that hormone stimulation? I'm not a medicineman, but I've listened, too, this is so much about it! You're telling us how you're in the office, when you're drinking coffee or somewhere else... Tell and fear everyone about the horrors of this hormone stimulation, how it ends up human health, what problems can then arise. Indirectly, it was also claimed... said my colleague Ražuks, that the gynecologists, in their horrors about all this matter, proposed that it be put into the issue of an unborn woman. What do you mean, respectable doctors? You are politicians, but your basic profession is a doctor, you have made an oath not to harm people. Then, please, speak also when you talk about these issues, educate us who are not medical doctors, how it is. And where is that policy, and where is healthcare? The medical opinion? And I longed very much for you to say: “No, that is not true. Hormonal stimulation does not affect women's health." Or Hosam Abu Meri will say, “Yes, influenced, but it’s so tiny that you can not worry about it.” ( Milestones.) For that, please, I would like to know from you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U319	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U320	Yeah. Dear colleagues, I would also like to remind you of the origin of the proposal at second reading. It was presented by the Minister for Health, Mr. Belevič. All those who participated in the meeting of our committee remember that we looked at the issue by inviting the non-governmental sector, inviting representatives of the Ministry of Health, the representative of the Latvian Association of Gynecologists and Childhood Specialists. They convinced us, at second reading, that we should have the same wording. And indeed, in our commission, there was an exchange of views: some believe that women's free will is the key, and others believe that women's health is the key. That's it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “But what to do now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U321	Okay. Thank you. Please call me! The debate has already been closed. Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Smilten's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 42, for - 22, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U322	That's it, colleagues. 5. - the proposal from Member Bee. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U323	The Legal Bureau shall advise that the proposal is to be put to the vote. This proposal is to be put to the vote. And we can vote. The Legal Bureau shall advise on the existence of. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Member Inga Betes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 41, for - 2. The proposal is not supported. It is also put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U324	The 6th proposal by the Minister for Health Anda Čakša is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U325	That is why this proposal is also to be put to the vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for Health, Chash! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “I don’t participate!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -2, for -45, for -12. The proposal is not supported. The proposal is therefore not to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U326	So, colleagues, to move on to other proposals. The proposal was drawn up by the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U328	The proposal was drawn up by the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour. It has also received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U330	Proposal No 10 was prepared by the Legal Bureau. This is supported and included in proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U331	The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U332	Proposal 11 was also prepared by the Legal Bureau. This is supported and included in proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U334	Proposal No 12 was also prepared by the Legal Bureau. It is also supported and included in proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U336	Proposal 13 was also prepared by the Legal Bureau. This is supported and included in proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U338	The proposal was drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U340	Proposal 15 is not supported and cannot be put to the vote in due course.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U341	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U342	And 16. - The proposal by Karina Plokas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U343	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U344	Proposal No 17 By Karina Ploka, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U345	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U346	And the last one is the 18th proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U348	Request to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U349	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on sexual and reproductive health! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda: draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U350	Dear colleagues, We work with document No 5117. Of course, this bill may not be so interesting, but it is very important. We are now looking at it at third reading. In its meeting of 12 June this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” and prepared it for the third reading. 32 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U352	2. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U354	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U356	4. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partly supported and included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U357	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U358	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U360	6. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U361	The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U362	7. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U364	8 / 8 - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U366	9. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U368	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U370	11. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U372	12. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U373	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U374	13. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U375	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U376	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U378	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. Unsupported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U379	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U380	16. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. Unsupported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U381	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U382	Dear Saeima! The sitting is long, Members may already lose their attention, and many think in the summer solstice. However, I call for attention to be paid to this proposal, on which the Commission as a whole shared its views, which was a conceptual support, but there was a lack of one vote in the vote to support it at the meeting of the Commission. In the past, there were justified reservations that educational institutions and foreign students who act in good faith should not suffer because of unscrupulous educational institutions and unscrupulous foreign students. Therefore, a proposal is proposed to address directly those educational institutions which take irresponsible action against the law, inviting questionable persons to Latvia. I think that it will certainly not be the University of Latvia or Riga Stradins University; rather, it will be separate private universities, which base their business on attracting foreign students, thus achieving that more than 50 percent of all students in these universities are studying abroad. The proposal provides for the creation of a new article - Article 9.2 - stating: “If several violations have been detected, where the purpose of the entry and residence of the foreign nationals invited does not coincide with the purpose indicated in the documents submitted for the visa or residence permit, the invited person shall be denied the possibility of further inviting other foreign nationals.” So, if a person has indicated that he is entering Latvia for one purpose, but the actual action has different objectives and if there are several and there are not one person, but several, then the State deprives the guest of the right to invite other foreigners. Because we have experienced cases when Latvia is forced to send out of the country not one or a few but several dozen foreign students whose purpose of entry is contrary to the purpose indicated in the documents. Article 9.1 already states: “Inviteer assumes responsibility for the purpose of the invited foreigner’s entry and stay for the purpose indicated in the documents submitted for the application for a visa or residence permit, for his departure from the country at the specified time, as well as, if necessary, ensure that the expenses related to the foreigner’s health care, stay in the Republic of Latvia and return to the country of residence are covered.” This means that already, the law provides for an obligation: if the university has invited a foreigner and if, for example, after a month or two months he goes to Germany to work and does not actually study at a higher education institution... This university is obliged to report this and to deduct this person from the educational establishment and to expel him from the state. However, this is not always the case and it is therefore proposed to impose sanctions against these guests if they do not comply with the immigration law. I call for support for Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U383	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U384	Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Dombrava. For both the second and third reading, he had tabled a large number of proposals, which led also to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior making proposals in which she took into account the views expressed by Mr Dombrava in our commission. There was a very intelligent, good discussion, and on the basis of some of Mr Dombrava's observations, not only the Parliamentary Secretary's proposals of the Ministry of the Interior were made, but also the joint proposals of the Commission. So thank you very much for your interest in these amendments. It has to be said that the idea of this proposal received some support, the Ministry of the Interior is committed to working on it. But it was in this wording that we could not support it in the Commission, and I would also call for it not to be supported here, because the Ministry of the Interior promised to work on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U385	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U386	Yes, indeed, the commission looked positive, but the vote was negative. The Commission therefore does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U387	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 13, against - 58, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U388	17. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U390	18. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U391	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U392	19. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U393	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U394	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U395	The 20th proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U396	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U398	22. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U399	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U400	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U402	24. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U404	25. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U405	... including 26. - the Commission's proposal. Members agree. 26!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U406	Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U407	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U408	26. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U409	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U410	27. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported... Partially supported, included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U411	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U412	28. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U413	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U414	29. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U415	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U416	30. - The proposal of the Saeima Member, John Adamson. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U417	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U418	Colleagues! The Immigration Law provides for a procedure in which the Minister of the Interior places one or other person on the black list, i.e. on the list of persons who are not allowed to enter and visit the state of Latvia. This is very correct: there is a need for evidence, information is needed, and all these decisions can be appealed to the courts. When the draft law on immigration was prepared, it was also agreed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would be the subject of decisions concerning diplomatic corpses or diplomatic representatives. We have recently seen that these trends have gone a little further. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has the right to include, according to the current version, any person, thus declaring without any explanation that this person is prohibited from entering the territory of Latvia. Once again, I stress that the Minister of the Interior has an obligation to provide explanations, reasons for not being allowed to enter here, whereas the Minister of Foreign Affairs can include anyone on this list. And I remember a couple of years ago, the Foreign Minister published an entry on Twitter, which then appeared on other Internet sites: “Sittings in the middle of the night, around two o’clock at night... I am sitting, drinking konjacs and thinking about what to add to the black list.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Break!” ) That is why I have also made this proposal to limit the powers of the Foreign Minister and to limit the powers of the Foreign Minister to the diplomatic corps. This is very logical. Decisions of all other persons shall be taken by the Minister of the Interior. We have a variety of special services that are able to deal with this problem, to justify who and why should not visit the country of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U419	Name to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U420	Dear colleagues, This proposal, in my opinion, is not really justified, because without a logical and substantive contribution, the foreign minister limits the right to determine what persons are for Latvia for undesirable political reasons - when there is a political context. The existing practice is that the Minister of the Interior places the list of undesirable persons on the basis of potential threats, potential dangers for our country, and in these matters really the security services make their recommendations. The nomination of an undesirable person proposed by the Foreign Minister as such for political reasons. I would like to remind you, in the context of our joint votes, of the so-called Magnitsk law when we addressed our decision, the decision of the Saeima, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, calling on several officials of the Russian Federation to recognise Latvia as undesirable persons. In fact, Mr Adamson's proposal is aimed at making sure that we never have the opportunity to record people on the list of undesirable persons on the basis of political motives. Please do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U421	The name of Member John Adamson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U422	Colleagues! As far as we are legally acting, we could already see yesterday, when we voted in favour of a draft decision, in which even the surnames did not prevail. When we talk about politically motivated reasons why someone or someone else should not enter, we should also talk about something else. Obviously, legal rather than political aspects should be put first. And then what do we do (do we want to do)? Censorship? I believe it is absolutely sufficient if the Minister of the Interior can justify why that or another person is threatening our security and what he can or cannot work together here; but the Minister of Foreign Affairs has to work in his own sector and do not have to come under the authority of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U423	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U424	Yeah. This proposal by John Adamson is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U425	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - A motion from Member Adamson! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 23, against - 46, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U426	31. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U427	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U428	32. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U429	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U430	Colleagues! We have examined all 32 proposals. Please support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U431	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! As soon as the results of the registration have been prepared, Gunārs Kūtris, a member of the Seimas Secretary, will read them.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U432	Currently not registered: Inesis Boķis, Gundars Dauge, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Jānis Kžads, Andrejs Klementjevs, Ivans Klementjevs, Inese Laizāne, Annie Matīss, Aivars Meija, Rihards Melgalis, Romanas Mežeckis, Artis Rasmanis, Jānis Ruks, Veiko Spolitis, Mārtiņš Šics... Yes, Jānis Upenieks, Juris Vectirāns... Yes, John Wucan... And Ivars Zarins... It's too, Clementyev... There is, too, and the Many... I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U433	Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U434	Dear colleagues, I call for seats to be held in the Saeima sitting room. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U435	Colleagues! The draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments", of course, will not be as interesting as the previous draft laws, but it will be interesting with the number of proposals received - these are 206. Proposal No 1 - Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Putra's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U436	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U437	I will, of course, not come to talk about each of these proposals. However, I must draw your attention to the fact that, at third reading, we have received more than 200 proposals for a draft law which we, at least in the Group of the Regions of Latvia, did not support at first reading, because we considered this to be not a normal practice. Immediately, at first reading, the draft law must then be rejected, improved and directed as an alternative draft law. But now, of course, the Legal Bureau, including the Members of the Saeima, has done a good job. Thank you all for your hard work. The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia will also support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U438	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U439	No, no. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U440	Mr. Viļuma, do you want a vote? No, no! Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U441	2. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U443	3. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U445	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U447	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U449	6. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U450	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U451	7. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U453	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U454	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U455	9. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U457	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U459	11. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U461	12. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U463	13. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U464	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U465	Incorporated 14. - the Commission's proposal. 14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the commission responsible, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U467	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U469	16. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U471	17. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U473	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U475	19. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U476	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U477	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U479	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U481	22. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U483	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U484	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U485	24. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U487	25. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U489	26 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U491	27. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U492	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U493	28. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U495	29. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U497	30. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U499	31. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U501	32. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U503	33. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U505	34. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U507	35. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U509	36. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U511	37. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U513	38. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U515	39. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U516	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U517	40. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U519	41. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U521	42. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U523	43. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U525	44. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U527	45. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U529	46. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U530	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U531	47. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U533	48. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U535	49. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U536	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U537	50. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included 51. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U538	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U539	51. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U541	52. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U542	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U543	53. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U544	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U545	54. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U546	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U547	55. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U549	56. - also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported, included 57. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U550	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U551	57. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U553	58. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U555	59. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U556	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U557	60. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U558	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U559	61. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U560	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U561	62. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U562	Partly supported, included 63. - the Commission's proposal. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U563	63. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U564	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U565	64. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U566	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U567	65. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U568	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U569	66. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U570	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U571	67. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by 69. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U572	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U573	68. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by 69. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U574	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U575	69. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U576	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U577	70. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U578	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U579	71. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported, included 72. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U580	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U581	72. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U582	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U583	73. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U584	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U585	74. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U586	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U587	75. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U588	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U589	76. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U590	... Partly included 77. - the Commission's proposal. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U591	Partially supported, included... Yeah. 77. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U592	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U593	78. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U594	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U595	79. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U596	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U597	80. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U598	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U599	81. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U600	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U601	82. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U602	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U603	83. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U604	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U605	84. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U606	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U607	85. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U608	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U609	86. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U610	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U611	87. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U612	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U613	88. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U614	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U615	89. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U616	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U617	90. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U618	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U619	91. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U620	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U621	92. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Aid included in 93. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U622	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U623	93. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U624	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U625	94. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U626	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U627	95. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U628	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U629	96. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U630	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U631	97. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U632	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U633	98. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U634	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U635	99. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U636	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U637	Proposal No 100. Partly supported, included 101. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U638	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U639	101. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U640	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U641	102. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U642	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U643	103, too. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U644	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U645	104. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U646	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U647	105. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U648	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U649	106. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported, included in 107. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U650	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U651	107. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U652	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U653	108. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U654	Members are in favour. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U655	109. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U656	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U657	110. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U658	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U659	111. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Partly supported, included in proposal 112.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U660	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U661	112. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U662	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U663	113. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U664	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U665	114. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included 115. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U666	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U667	115. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U668	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U669	116. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U670	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U671	117. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U672	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U673	118. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U674	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U675	119. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U676	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U677	120. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included 121. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U678	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U679	121. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U680	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U681	122. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U682	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U683	123. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U684	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U685	124. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U686	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U687	125. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U688	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U689	126. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U690	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U691	127. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U692	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U693	128. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U694	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U695	129. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U696	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U697	130. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U698	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U699	131. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U700	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U701	132. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U702	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U703	133. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U704	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U705	134. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U706	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U707	135. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U708	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U709	136 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U710	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U711	137. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U712	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U713	138. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U714	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U715	139. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U716	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U717	140. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U718	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U719	Proposal 141 is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U720	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U721	142. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U722	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U723	143. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U724	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U725	144. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U726	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U727	145. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U728	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U729	The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U730	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U731	147. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U732	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U733	148. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U734	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U735	149. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U736	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U737	150. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U738	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U739	151. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported, included 152. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U740	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U741	152. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U742	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U743	153. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U744	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U745	154. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U746	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U747	155. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U748	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U749	156. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U750	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U751	157. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U752	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U753	158. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U754	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U755	159. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U756	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U757	160. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U758	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U759	161. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U760	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U761	162. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U762	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U763	163 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U764	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U765	164. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U766	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U767	165 has also received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U768	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U769	166. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U770	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U771	Commission proposal 167 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U772	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U773	168. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U774	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U775	169. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U776	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U777	170. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U778	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U779	171. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U780	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U781	Proposal 172. Partly supported and included 173. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U782	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U783	173. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U784	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U785	174. - partly supported the proposal included in 175. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U786	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U787	175. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U788	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U789	176. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported, included 177. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U790	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U791	177. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U792	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U793	178. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U794	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U795	179. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U796	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U797	180. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U798	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U799	181. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U800	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U801	182. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U802	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U803	183. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U804	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U805	184. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U806	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U807	185. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U808	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U809	186. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U810	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U811	187. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U812	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U813	188. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U814	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U815	189. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U816	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U817	190. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U818	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U819	191. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U820	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U821	192. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U822	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U823	193. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U824	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U825	194. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U826	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U827	195. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U828	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U829	196. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U830	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U831	197. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported. Incorporated in 198. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U832	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U833	198. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U834	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U835	199. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U836	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U837	200. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U838	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U839	201 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U840	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U841	202. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U842	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U843	203. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U844	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U845	204. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U846	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U847	205. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U848	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U849	And 206. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U850	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U851	Colleagues! We have examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U852	Please call me! Mr. Dalder, do you want to talk about procedural issues? Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U853	Colleagues! For the third reading of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers’, no proposals have been received. I call for support to be given to the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U854	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Audit Services, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U855	Colleagues, this draft law, too, has not received any proposals for third reading, so I call for it to be approved at third, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U856	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission asks to include the draft decision “On cancellation of Arvja Garā from the position of a judge of Rezekne Court” on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Andris Morozovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U857	Hello, fellow Members, again! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined and supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” (No 998/Lp12). 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U858	Members want to vote on proposal 1. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 53, no. - 17, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U859	2. - the proposal of Minister of Education and Science Shadursky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U860	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U861	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U862	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U863	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U864	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U865	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U866	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U867	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Partially supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U868	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U869	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U870	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U871	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U872	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Karlis Shadursky! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's against - 22, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U873	9. - Alda Adamovich's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U874	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U875	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U876	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U877	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U878	Members agree. Incorporated in 12. - the Commission's proposal. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U879	Yeah. I'm sorry. 12. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U880	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U881	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U882	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U883	So, colleagues, these 13 proposals were supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U884	And the Commission calls for support to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U885	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, I am calling on you to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U886	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 21, for - 1. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Law on General Education, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U887	Hello, dear colleagues! So we look at the third reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on General Education". The Commission has received 47 proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U888	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U889	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Ministry of Education and Science has worked for 27 years... I can name a few things, because all will not have enough time for me. Opening of training from the age of six years and extending of elementary school to nine years. Basic education is more than one class. We introduced the principle of guidance, but we repealed it after seven years. Basic school graduates' right to choose subjects of their own will when entering high school. Well, I know many who chose not to learn mathematics, chemistry, physics. When he reached grade 12, the graduate of high school could choose which exam he would take. Well, I can call it a variant - a composition that was mandatory, history, Russian, foreign language and homeliness. There could have been sport, there could have been music, much. Again - mathematics, physics, chemistry. After that, we have been wandering here for several years in all areas: we do not have any physical objects - there is no one who learns about engineers and so on. It was a mistake. I can name a lot more. Now we have opened the law and look into the word “area”. Once again, I would like to speak in a light language, for those present, as well as for the people who may listen, to explain their vision, their opinion that this word is not suitable for use in Latvian law. Every person's life goes through school. The reform is intended to give more autonomy and creativity to the school, and that is very good. But let us not give up the concept of "directions" because it includes the idea of purpose! The goal is one of the most important components of life, activity. Each person has about 80 percent water. If a person has no goal, then he is by nature a vertical mouse - so said an unknown scientist who studied what it means to fail to achieve the goal because of a lack of knowledge. Children, adolescents, and young people are aware of their goals during school. I therefore call for: let us not change the fundamental concept of "direction" in the text of the text against the non-sensing concept of "area"! What does that even mean? Is the area of content organisation? Is the area a content direction? Is there a particular form of organization? This is not a scientific concept. And I would very much like all the commissions... Members of the coalition could scientifically explain to me how they understand and explain why this word, which has been translated and, as I understand it, has been used in the world... Here is Latvia, and I am very surprised that the members of the national flank who take care of Latvian do not understand that the national value is the correct form and expression of the national language. And closing. Welcome to all 76 'no' Members who abstained or did not vote for the celebration of Teachers' Day on the first Friday of October! I understand that it was not the teachers who voted and expressed their opinion. I warmly congratulate you! 36,000, as the minister corrected me, the teacher is quite outrageous about your ability to think about and take care of emotions. Emotions are the most beautiful that can be in man. And to many, forgive me, I understand: also to you. - these emotions are not developed. Welcome from the teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U890	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U891	Mr. Platoper! It reminds me of a great meeting of scientists, where they argued a whole day, how to choose the right place for discussion: either at a round table or at a quadratic table. And there was no day in the discussion on this important issue, and there was no time left for the basic question. That's it. Are we talking about the substance, or are we talking about the "field" and "direction"? Both are Latvian words, and both have the right to exist. But you have to choose. And if we discuss a table - round or rectangular - then we will never come to content. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U892	The debate is not yet closed. Member Arvīds Platoper, second time. ( The box “No! ”) ; “Go, go!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U893	Dear Mrs. Janina Kursītes-Pakules! I'm very excited about your speech, it was really very emotional. Unfortunately, the Saeima commissions do not allow me to speak, I usually stop after 25-30 (Interior: “minutes!” ) for seconds (interferon, laughter.) ... I'm stopped and I'm not allowed to speak. And that's working style! And I'm so sorry that in the commission... I don't know how in other commissions, but 20. (See the box below.) ... Since I have no opportunity to say my thoughts to the end of the commission, I use this platform to... Because the mass media does not usually show me (The Unity of the Group: “Word!” ) and does not reflect opinions... There is only one point of view expressed by the Minister for Education and Science, who cannot distinguish himself between lessons and classes. ( The drug is noise. Imposition: “Well, well!” ) And in this respect, I have a great call at last for a change in working style and for a debate to be held within the Commission, not for an end to the Member in opposition at all times. Because I have the feeling that only a minister with officials from the Ministry of Education and Science, who have been unable to arrange education in 27 years, is the only wise person. When people sit in opposition, who understand nothing, demagogically speak, they are populists... And in every way else we are called: when we come out of the rot, we have grown in the barrel, fed through the mouth. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Speak about yourself!” ) And that is what the highest-quality Member of Unity says! I'm sorry. For me, this kind of working style is, to be honest, unacceptable.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U894	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U895	The Commission is not... I'm sorry! The Commission has supported proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U896	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Education and Science, Karlis Shadursky! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 46, it's 31, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U897	2. - An offer from the Saeima Member Arvīds Platoper. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U898	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U899	3. - Andra Morozov's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U900	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U901	4. - Andra Morozov's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U902	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U903	Colleagues! I would like to emphasise once again that, despite the fact that the amendments to the General Education Act are already being seen at third reading, almost nothing has better become there. I am pleased that the deadlines in the field of specialist education have, however, progressed for a year, but I believe that Shadurski also called for a year's delay in the reform of the content of competences. ( Minister of Education and Science K. Šadurskis: “What?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ") I have no doubt that the approach based on the content of competences will help to achieve the goal of education, the preparation of smart, qualified graduates with a broad horizon, who will be ready for new challenges and will be able to reach the top. However, this is not possible as a result of the reform that is currently planned. Examples of new programmes are still being hidden. Perhaps because they are not yet available. The reform is unwittingly hasty and is put on children, teachers, and parents as a matter of urgency. That is the populism of pre-election! The opposition's concern about all this - it is not populism! In my opinion, the main problem of the reform is the fact that the elections are in the autumn. And Shadurskis needs to set the... We already have a two-member society, because it is an excellent pre-election instrument that always works. It is an up-to-date approach and it excludes the successful implementation of the reform, as the reformers themselves do not support it. The problem of both the two-linguistic education system and its current content is the fact that supervisors in the field of education have not been able to implement and control the laws already provided for. Do Not Help Teachers to Learn the Language (Dep. A.Latkovsky: “Helped teachers!” ) has not been able to control sufficient use of the national language in schools, has not been able to motivate young, talented teachers, attract to work in schools and, simply doing nothing, has continued an old-fashioned approach. More! Shadurski deceived his teachers by promising an increase in salary, but only a part of the teachers will receive a lump sum allowance. This is about the proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Adamovics: “There are no proposals!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U904	The proposal that subjects can be combined in the fields of training.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U905	The state has not been able to raise education... the prestige of the professions involved. I think that the hasty reform will not result either. To put it better, give it, but not what everyone would like to expect. The result will be that, as a result of the hasty and incomprehensible reforms, all problems will be put on schools and teachers, who ultimately blame for nothing working. Then tell me that teachers do not deserve an increase in wages because they do not know how to teach. This will, of course, continue to undermine the prestige of the teaching profession and certainly will not improve the quality of education. Therefore, I call once again on you to reflect and not to support amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U906	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U907	The Commission has not supported proposal 4. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Latkovsky: “Rightly did it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U908	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 27, against - 42, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U909	5. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U910	And neither is it possible to vote because it is identical to the previous one.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U911	6. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U912	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U913	I will talk about all the proposals from the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia. So I'll ask if I don't have enough time for two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U914	When necessary.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U915	Yeah, okay! Hello, honourable Mrs. Mourniece! Presidium! Minister! Dear Members, For the second reading, we had prepared proposals for the draft law on the Law on General Education that would allow for the retention of special educational establishments as they are and would now function. For the third reading, we have prepared proposals for this draft law that allow for the maintenance of educational adjustment programmes. Unfortunately, however, neither one nor the other proposals of the Group of the Latvian Association of Regions were supported. Why? As we are well aware, within general inclusive education, at any cost, or, to be precise, the price of Minister Shadursky, all those who move much less should get inside general education schools and learn from the new model of competence, which I may say, sometimes also of lack of competence, education. I hope that the reason for this time is not that reasonable and rational proposals, of which many coalition parties then simply borrow and present themselves as their own, in fact, the Latvian Association of Regions creates and prepares. The Association of the Regions of Latvia in these matters called for the restoration of the previous or old norms of the law. Why? This is why children from boarding schools and special educational establishments are able to study in educational programmes adapted to their educational needs, including special and pedagogical correction programmes. Thus, Article 4 of the Shadursky bill reads as follows: “The Cabinet of Ministers... defines the criteria for assessing and recommending an educational programme appropriate to the special needs of the learners;” What does that mean? So Shadurskis and the Cabinet of Ministers know the needs of each child's special training. Therefore, it will be recommended that everyone also learn from an existing programme. Isn't that absurd? Mr Šadurskis is not listening, he only submits 100 proposals for second and third reading (in particular his subordinates). Who will work with these children in general schools? One teacher with 20 or more children? As we know, the work of social educators in schools is on the shoulders of municipalities, and not all municipalities are prepared to pay for the services of social educators. Let's imagine, Mr. Shadursky! You can imagine yourself at the teacher's place at any hour when you will have 20 or more children in the next year, three or four of whom will have come from boarding school, for example, with all their problems, with police records and so on. You will have 15 children in general education, and one year later you will also have children who should learn from the social correction programmes that you are eliminating. And now you will be one with 25 or more children, and with such a timid composition! How will you teach them the training of new competences? You're removing old programs, putting all the general education in schools. What's going to happen in that class? You don't think about it. In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, I asked the officials of the Ministry for Education and Science how many children are studying social correction programmes for the moment? The answer was very shocking - 845 children, and it was pretended that it was less than one percent of all those who go to school. But are 845 children not children? It's three high schools! Three secondary schools around. So we don't care about every child in Latvia? They will be able to learn from general competence education programmes? I don't think so. And finally. The Association of the Regions of Latvia made a proposal to postpone all these changes related to special education and special adjustment programmes until 31 August 2024. Why? First, to manage the Minister with the introduction of competence education in general schools and only then go to reorganization of another type of school. To arrange the optimisation of the school network together with the Ministry of Transport, VARAM and municipalities. May the Ministry of Education and Science and Minister Shadurski still this year until the elections respond and deal with the consequences of the liquidation of boarding schools. All the issues related to the promised dismissal allowances for teachers, which are currently not being fulfilled, as well as the promised increase in the annual salary for educators, should also be fully resolved. One thing is clear, and it has already appeared in the press that 710 euros will not be available to teachers from 1 September, as has been promised. Prior to that, it was announced that only those municipalities that comply with the ultimative rules of the Ministry of Education and Science would have higher salaries for teachers. And most importantly, finish, Minister, at least one reform that you have begun during your ministry of education and science. For, as it seems, some good reforms are coming to the next Saeima. Who will have met with the introduction of competence education in an experiment there will only be fully seen when first-class children, who will start their education, reach 12th grade. Then we will see the outcome of the reform. How many reforms do these children still have to undergo? Will there be more than 20 reforms every year? These are issues that should certainly be considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U916	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U917	Hello, honourable Members! I will try to explain in a few words what a educational adjustment programme is. I think Mr Krumins will not be able to explain, because it has been explained in all the meetings of the Commission, but here in the Saeima we have heard the same text as before. So, pedagogic correction. If educational problems arise with them or other learners, they are offered educational correction programmes that are short-term, very similar in content to general education programmes, but provide additional support measures to motivate young people to learn and to return to their framework programmes shortly. Unfortunately, the practice so far shows that this return has rarely taken place. What Mr Krūmiņš spoke about boarding school for children is absolutely not... What Mr Krūmiņš has said about children with learning disorders is absolutely no question of pedagogical correction. So... Well, in fact, I would already be very happy if Members were to debate more about the issues on which they have gone into and which they understand than to say what we heard in the previous reading. ( Intercretion: “How Zariņš for OIK! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U918	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U919	The Commission has not supported proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U920	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 31, 41, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U921	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U922	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U923	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U924	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U925	9. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U926	Mr Krumina talked about all the proposals from the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, and everyone will obviously have to vote on them. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 29, against - 40, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U927	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U928	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U929	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U930	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U931	12. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U932	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U933	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U934	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U935	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U936	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U937	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Shadursky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U938	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U939	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. Partially supported, included 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U940	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U941	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U942	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U943	18. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U944	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U945	19. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U946	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U947	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U948	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U949	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Shadursky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U950	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U951	22. - Mr. Shadursky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U952	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U953	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Partly supported by proposal 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U954	Does the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia want a vote in this case? I do not wish to vote. So to record - the Latvian Association of Regions does not want a vote. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U955	24. - the proposal of Minister of Education and Science Shadursky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U956	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U957	25. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U958	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U959	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U960	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U961	27. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U962	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U963	28. - The motion of Saeima Member Julia Stepanenko. Partially supported, included 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U964	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U965	29. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U966	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U967	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank everyone, all of you and - a miracle! - also the Ministry of Education and Science. This is one very positive proposal, I guess the most positive decision in this bill, because we are talking about 10 minutes shorter training hours on the day before Christmas in all programmes - both pre-school, high school and special programme. I mean, if it's 40 minutes, then 30 minutes, and if it's 30, it's 20 minutes. I just want to thank you. And I think we don't need to vote at all. At least something positive is in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U968	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U969	The Commission has supported proposal 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U970	And Members also supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U971	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U972	Thank you. So Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U973	30. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U974	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 29, against - 45, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U975	31. - Mr. Shadursky's proposal. Partially supported, included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U976	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U977	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U978	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U979	33. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U980	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U981	34. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U982	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U983	35. - Mr. Shadursky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U984	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U985	36. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U986	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 27, against - 42, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U987	37. - Mr. Shadursky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U988	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U989	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U990	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U991	39. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U992	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 27, against - 42, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U993	40. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U994	Please call me! Let's vote for 40. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 28, against - 44, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U995	41. - Andra Morozov's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U996	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for 41. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U997	42. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U998	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 42. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U999	43. - Mr. Shadursky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1000	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1001	44. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1002	Please call me! To be put to the vote on 44. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1003	45. - Mr. Shadursky's proposal. It provides for time limits for the implementation of the content of competences from 1 September 2020, therefore by year: 1 September 2020 - 10th grade, 2021 - 11th grade and 2022 - 12th grade. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1004	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1005	46. - Mr. Shadursky's proposal. Partly supported, includes 47. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1006	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1007	47. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1008	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1009	That's it, colleagues! We have examined all the proposals for third reading. I really hope that these proposals will provide the basis for improving the quality of our education, which... We'll start in two years. I therefore call for support for this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1010	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on General Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 52, it's against 22, it's not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1011	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1012	Mr Platoper, do you want to give me a motive for a vote? Will you submit... Is that so? No, then you have to submit in writing. No, no, no! You can vote... No, wait! Only in writing if you put forward the reason for the vote. You pressed the button. I understood that you have the motivation to vote. If not... No, if not in writing, then no! A report on the reasons for the vote shall be submitted in writing after the vote. Proposals can be debated. Thank you. So there is no report on the motives for voting. And the law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Scientific Activities, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1013	Five proposals have been received. Four of them are related to the reduction of the criteria for universities in the field of culture to be included in the Register of Higher Education. In particular, 20 percent of their academic staff should have a doctoral degree, while other universities remain 50 percent. 1. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1014	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1015	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1016	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1017	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1018	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1019	4. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1020	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1021	5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1022	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1023	Please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1024	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1025	Dear colleagues, On June 5, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government examined proposed amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation. As a result of the vote, eight of the eight Members present voted against the proposal for a first reading. Why? It must be said that the Law on Election Aggregation lays down requirements for election campaign not only in the Saeima elections, but also in the municipal elections and in the European Parliament elections, where, as you know, the citizens of the European Union also participate. This leads to a degree of discrimination which has been taken into account. Secondly. The use of the state language in public space is governed by the State Language Law, but at the same time all activities, instruments and means used in pre-election campaign are regulated by special laws, such as the Law on Media, the Law on Advertising and others. We are therefore restricting the application of this draft law here. This is already laid down in the Pre-election Act itself and additional restrictions would be excessive here. Thirdly. Article 10 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the proposals proposed are contrary to what the European Court of Human Rights takes into account. In a court case against the Turkish Government, which had introduced a provision prohibiting pre-election campaign in the Kurzeme language, the Turkish Government was punished by a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, both financially and morally. In the light of all these considerations, the Commission did not support the adoption of the draft law, and on behalf of the Commission, I call on it not to support the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1026	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1027	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I think it is not only for me that it seems a little surreal that we have to discuss the question of the language in which the election campaign in Latvia should take place. Just as surreal as the fact that a debate may be a question of teaching in Latvian in educational institutions of Latvia. It is absurd that an election campaign, a candidate for the post of President of a people to be held and put to the vote by persons familiar with the language of the country, can take place in a foreign language. It seemed that during these years we will all have understood one truth, which is enshrined in Article 4 of the Satversme: the state language in the Republic of Latvia is Latvian. The preamble to the Satversme also emphasises trust in Latvian as the only state language. In international practice, there is also a concept of basic linguistic rights. And the State language law must also be respected. Colleagues supporting these amendments would continue to strengthen the position of Latvian in our own country. The Latvian language must be dominated in Latvia, its state administration, its schools, everyday communication and, yes, also in political campaign in elections to the Saeima, local governments, the European Parliament, as well as before popular voting and legislative proposals. The reservations that we have people who do not know the language of the country do not mean that the campaign of pre-election should not be in the language of the country. The fact that there are enough people who do not know the language of the country shows a serious problem. This shows the fact that these people have difficulty integrating into society, the labour market and the information space of Latvia due to the low language skills. But Latvian citizens should not have any problems in understanding and evaluating the pre-election information provided in Latvian. If there are such problems, they must be corrected and resolved, and not pre-election campaigned in a foreign language. The citizens of the elections are the ones who decide whom to entrust power. Can such decisions - the decisions on which the future of Latvia depends - be entrusted to people who do not know the language of the country? Should public administration and legislation not be based on values defined in the Constitution? Is it possible that the state funding for political campaign is received by parties who lack respect for the state of Latvia in order to promote its language? Is it really normal that a Latvian citizen, who knows only Latvian, loses the opportunity to learn what the political forces that are candidates for elections offer because he does not know a foreign language? The wish is that we are speaking to the whole of society. And without hiding and lying, we can speak only one language - Latvian. I think that every voter primarily wants his or her predecessor to adequately represent his or her elite's interests, not just mechanically present in the Council, the Saeima or the European Parliament. It is obvious that the legislator is clearly aware and understands what is being voted on, what is being discussed and what arguments are being presented in Latvian. Members must be chosen not by the most beautiful hairstyle or the most famous rhetoric, but by their skills and skills, and the Latvian language skills should be at the very heart, because their ignorance is either laziness or neglect or clear indifference. Continuously using a foreign language in public communication, advertising material, everyday life, we seem to define that knowledge of this language in Latvia is self-evident. And it's not a question of whether we need to learn foreign languages at all. Of course you do! It is about how much we respect our own country and national language. This is a story about self-esteem and respect for Latvia and Latvian language. Language is the basis of any nation. Latvian is at the heart of our country, and our country is as strong as its foundations. We all want a society that feels part of Latvia, respects it, is proud of it, speaks the language of the country and appreciates its unique culture. I really don't believe that those who lack so much... A little respect for the language of our country, in order to promote it, should be allowed to do so. Because then you have to ask: which country are you applying for? However, I call on Members to support the draft legislation rejected by the Commission at first reading, to discuss the content and to put forward proposals to improve it at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1028	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1029	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Ladies and gentlemen! When we passed the draft law to the commission, I was one of the few who voted against. Of course SASKAJA voted 'no', some non-group Members voted 'no'; I was the only member of other groups who voted 'no'. And I will also vote against this bill today. I do not deny that Latvian should be strengthened in all possible ways. Of course! We adopted a law here in the Saeima, amendments to the education system, that after a few years there will be an education system only in Latvian. But right now, right now! - we have both schools in Russian and media in Russian, including the state order, so the Latvian Radio 4, Latvian Television 7, and all these news and information providers work not only in the state language. It is a little funny that we maintain the use of foreign languages in one area and provide opportunities to promote the election in the field of campaign only in Latvian. Moreover, when I was abroad with Latvians, I saw that not all of them freely manage Latvian and that it is really easier to speak English with some people. In fact, if we adopt this provision of the law that promotion is to be carried out only in the state language, it means that none of the pre-elections can speak in a language other than the state language. At the same time, if we want to go into such a system, it must be discussed very carefully, all the details must be discussed, and perhaps in the next Saeima elections, which will be the 14th Saeima elections, perhaps - I say again! - can be considered. But in no case is it now as long as those - three or four - months before the parliamentary elections. Colleagues, however, I call for this draft law to be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1030	The name to Member Richard Cole, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1031	Thank you to Mr Viļums for his interpretation of the legal provisions of the amendment. Maybe that's a misunderstanding. In some ways, it could be partly accepted that the maximum level of communication of the draft law in a foreign language is perhaps not an adequate restriction, because no candidate can be banned from speaking to potential voters, even in his own fiction. But here we are talking more about... There are clear restrictions on election campaigning, which are more relevant to paid advertising. It is clear that both the public media and commercial media, where there will be discussions, will remain and are not considered as part of the pre-election campaign. Here we are talking more about advertising, environmental advertising, on which campaign materials appear in a foreign language. It is the same, the very essence, and this is what these amendments - to ban this kind of campaign - and not to prevent a candidate from speaking in a foreign language. Not at all!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1032	Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1033	I will immediately reply to Mr Kola's statement that this is about advertising. After all, ads can be in the media that I have mentioned, and many media come out not only in Latvian. I will say even more: if we adopted such a rule, as you propose, we would, in fact, hand over some of the Latvian citizens to only one political party. I think that is wrong! It is not even national right. Most recently we heard that SASKA is trying to attract Latvian voters. Right? They are trying to attract both Russian-speaking and Latvian-speaking. And now you want to say that all Russian-speaking, Russian-minded people will immediately vote in favour?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( Milestones.) I also think that Russian speakers, one part of whom is very patriotic people who speak Russian, would like to vote in favour of the National Association. Why do you want to deny yourself the opportunity to talk to Russian-speaking people and call them to vote in favour of the National Association?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1034	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1035	Dear colleagues, First of all, it must be explained in the bill that it was only about environmental advertising, but it does not apply to others... This is a bad bill, because the legislator has not ordered the parachute to be repaired either by the Ministry or by one of the Members. The second question. If we talk about pre-election campaign, the aim of the campaign is not to test how people understand language, how people love or do not love language... The aim of the campaign, the campaign of pre-election, is to pass to each of the voters information about political parties, their programmes and the candidates of the parties. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Only citizens can participate in the election! They need to know the national language!’ ) And here it is very important that people understand better. That's a point two. And the third point. No one has abolished the right of national minorities to use their languages. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Viļums: “Polish, Ukrainian!” ) Consequently, the restriction of this right, although pre-election during the campaign, is not particularly humanely correct. And finally. All these speeches from the National Union... To be honest, there are very few concerns about the preservation of Latvian. There is only an effort to show: here we are the best, we are the greatest fighters. Remember better about those areas that are your responsibility and where those your representatives are not dealing with your works. That was what we were talking about yesterday.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1036	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1037	When it comes to managing citizenship and migration matters after a citizen's passport, I am really ashamed that there are citizens who address the staff of the Office for Citizenship and Migration in Russian. Then there is the question: How have they acquired citizenship? We know that the former head of the Office for Citizenship and Migration, which issued citizenship to the right and to the left, is now on the line. However, this does not mean that we must continue to allow bilateralism in Latvia. Here is a concrete proposal that the campaign of pre-elections with Latvian citizens takes place in the state language. It is not a problem - to address Ukrainian, Russian, Lithuanian and Estonian citizens living in Latvia. Let's make this decision and move forward!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1038	Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri... Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1039	Colleagues! I think that this bill is that everyone needs to remember, almost from their head, what is written there: the campaign of pre-election must take place in the state language. There are attempts to explain that in general we think on one side or on the other side... Election campaign shall be conducted in the official language. That's it! Everything possible! From shirts and Facebook records, if it can be considered as an angitation, to everything else. I think it would be even logical in theory, because here is Latvia. You have to speak Latvian here. I partly agree with what Mr. Cole says. But what about real life? We understand that. And then there's such a schizophrenic situation, colleagues! National associations are, in my opinion, such a political opponent or enemy. They want to achieve a reduction in the impact and increase in their impact. They now actually, covering the whole of this field, tell us that none of those sitting on this beach, or those who still claim... they tell them that they do not come into the elite that they have monopolised, namely in the information channels of the people - in the channels in which they perceive the information that this particular party has monopolised. And, moreover, there are favourable conditions. Look at the reality! Favourable conditions - they have monopolised this audience. We know their influence - from the PR point of view, from the point of view of public relations - in the Russian-valuable media; also, their exposure in the Russian-valuable media cannot be competitive. We can see that, too, by distributing votes... not the votes, but the number of mandates between the districts... Three mandates come to Riga. Who's gonna get them? Not the aliens they added... There's only 17,000 going to vote. One and a half more mandates. And if it is not yet possible to try and break through and address the Russian-speaking audience, trying to say that, no, it is normal to vote on other parties as well... I think there is a reflection of this schizophrenia that, on the one hand, you want to reduce their influence, but in practice you help them. Well, and the other side is going up in the tributary and says, "No, no, we don't want it - such amendments!" And so on, although it is by nature beneficial to them in the context of these elections. I agree with Mr. Kola. The state of Latvia - it is necessary to speak in Latvian, but from a practical point of view, knowing how decisive the next Saeima elections will be, how high the rates are, and seeing that this proposal has been simplified and has not been developed to the end - there is no control procedure for controlling the language... I will probably abstain from this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1040	The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name Gunārs Kūtris to report the results of the registration as soon as they are collected.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1041	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Inesis Boķis, Artuss Kaimiņš, Guntis Kalniņš... yes, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Jānis Klžads, Ivans Klementjevs, Askolds Kļaviņš, Līga Kozlovska, Armands Krauze... is, Inese Laizāne, Anrijs Matīss, Aivars Meija, Rihards Melgailis, Artis Rasmanis, Jānis Ruks, Veiko Spolitis, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Upenieks, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1042	Thank you. Interruption until 5.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1043	Dear colleagues, I call for seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”, first reading. We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1044	Dear colleagues, Of course, it is very pleasant that almost all the debaters mention SAVE, but I think this problem is not just SAVE. It is, in fact, much wider. Firstly, regarding Mr Dombrava's question of how Latvian citizens may not know the Latvian language. Well, I have some interesting facts for you. There have always been people living in Latvia who have very different ethnic backgrounds. And of those citizens who obtained citizenship by registration, about one quarter belong to national minorities. Of course, it is quite natural for all naturalized citizens to speak Latvian because they are facing trials. It is quite natural that those Latvian citizens who have finished school after the restoration of their independence speak Latvian language, because it is a mandatory requirement. But there is no legislative act that would instruct those people who left school during the Soviet period to know the national language. Do you suggest that these people's rights be restricted, that they should not be allowed to vote, perhaps something else? I think that would obviously be contrary to the Constitution. Second moment. This is not just about elections. I think speaking to people in the language that is more convenient to them is simply polite. And even if people speak Latvian freely, I always try to choose the language that is more convenient for the person, especially when it comes to voters and employers. Because voters are our employers, and we need to adapt to them and do what is more convenient to them, not the other way round. And the third. After all, let us not forget about the Constitution! In particular, Article 100 of the Satversme - freedom of expression. Is the use of languages in the context of elections to be seen in this particular context? Yes, of course. Because in 2010, Turkey adopted amendments to its legislation that were very similar to those currently offered by colleagues from the National Alliance - that the campaign of pre-election is only allowed in Turkish. And there were provided for pretty severe penalties - up to prison. ( Interface: “There was criminal responsibility! ” ) But some of the Kurd politicians still used the Kurd language in an election campaign, and they were punished. Some were sentenced to quite substantial fines, some even prison sentences. However, on 21 January 2013, the Strasbourg Court, or the European Court of Human Rights Chamber, concluded that this constituted a violation of freedom of expression. And in this case, the situation is absolutely identical. Yes, of course, you have not yet proposed criminal liability for these offences... But also for those Kurd politicians who have not been sentenced to prison and who have been subject to relatively small penalties - for them too, however, the Strasbourg Court found this to be an infringement. That is the interpretation of the principle of freedom of expression laid down by the Strasbourg Court! And in the same way we must interpret Article 100 of the Satversme. I understand your desire to strengthen the language of the country, but I am very much in favour of it, but we must always look for a balance between measures aimed at strengthening the language of the country, on the one hand, and general human rights, on the other. And in this case, your proposal certainly does not meet these requirements, and I call on you, however, to be aware that we now have some red lines. And its red lines have actually been set exactly in the Constitution. You always defend the Constitution. Then act, please, in accordance with the principles of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1045	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Mr Dolgopolov, is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Dolgopolov: “No! The Commission has called for the rejection of this!” ) No. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -14, for -23, for -25. Draft law has been rejected. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Customs Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1046	Colleagues! The draft law ‘Amendment to the Customs Act’ has been examined by the commission responsible. The aim of the draft law is to ensure the codification of administrative infringements regarding administrative violations in the customs field, thus complying with Cabinet of Ministers Order No.38 “On Concept of Development of the Administrative Penal System”. The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading. I also invite you to support this at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1047	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Customs Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1048	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1049	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “The Czech Game Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1050	Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission at its meeting on 12 June this year examined the draft law on the Czech Game Law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. Working on the 2018 budget and medium-term budget, the government supported the proposal of the National Association to introduce VAT voucher lottery in Latvia as an instrument that would reduce the shadow economy in a benign and socially motivated way. Reducing its share is one of the government's priority tasks to ensure an increase in the well-being of society, social protection and economic development. The draft law, taking into account the experience of other countries – Slovakia, Malta, Portugal, Poland and also Lithuania – also provides for the organisation of a Czech game to improve the tax culture, the aim of which is to involve Latvian citizens in the fight against the shadow economy, by ensuring that a transaction document is issued for the service received and the goods purchased, thus promoting fair competition. For illustration. In Slovakia, the introduction of a set of measures to combat the shadow economy, which included a cheque lottery, resulted in a VAT gap of 40.1 per cent in 2012 and a reduction of more than 25 per cent in 2016 to 29 per cent. And the Slovak Ministry of Finance has assessed this lottery as a very good marketing tool, which also contributes significantly to improving the control activities of the revenue institution. The Czech game is not considered a game or a draw within the meaning of the Law on Gambling and Gaming, nor a lottery of goods and services within the meaning of the Law on Lottery of Goods and Services. The winnings received from the Czech game will not be subject to personal income tax. The draft law provides for the duties of the organizer of the cheque game - SRS -, the rights, duties and restrictions of the players, the procedure for registering cheques, the procedure for determining winners, notification, the procedure for winnings. The draft law provides that a proof of payment expenses is recorded in the check game, the transaction value (excluding value added tax) of which is at least EUR five. The ratio of 70:30 will be used to determine the winners, i.e. 70 percent of the vouchers issued for the services provided and 30 percent for the goods delivered. The draft law provides for the period of operation of this law from 1 July 2019 to 1 March 2021. Unfortunately, this draft law also raised many questions about what it does not contain or is not sufficient or inadequate for the original idea and essence. I will list some key issues. Why is the organisation of this lottery not immediately entrusted to the public limited liability company “Latvijas Loto” but a procurement is planned, which significantly distances the implementation time and complicates the process? Why, contrary to the initial implementation deadline - at the end of 2018 - the beginning is set only for July 2019 and in general an unimaginably short duration of operation is foreseen - until March 1, 2021, which is one year and eight months? In such a short period of time, the growth in the tax culture cannot be sustained, all the more so because all the countries of the European Union that have introduced this instrument are working on it for several years. Why does the draft law not include the proposed automatic recording of the lottery, which would be carried out from the side of the businessmen who have introduced new cash registers that register online with the State Revenue Service? In Georgia, this was precisely the main motivation for introducing cash registers equipped with the GPRS system. There is also no thought of the possibility of registering a lottery for the elderly. Why is the principle of the amount of lottery prizes offered very much simplified and based solely on Lithuania's experience, which is relatively short - only half a year - versus Malta with 20 years of experience, Slovakia with five years of experience, Poland with four years of experience? Why the amount of the prize is not nuveled, rather than depending on the amount of the cheque transaction, as is the case in other countries, for example, by setting a 100-fold ceiling in Malta - not more than EUR 11 647... And why is the minimum amount of the voucher fixed at EUR 5 - besides VAT - when it is twice as low in the same Slovakia and Poland? Nor is it intended to involve companies with financial prizes, as is the case in Portugal and Poland. Why has there not been a thorough consultation and knowledge of experience in the recently mentioned European countries? Taking all this into account, although the Cabinet of Ministers asks for urgent determination of the draft law, it should be noted that my colleague, Ms Silverba, pointed out (please quote): “the draft law prepared does not correspond to the quality of the draft law that could be approved by the Saeima at first reading”, and the Commission decided: firstly, to set up a working group, including the proposal developers from the National Association, representatives of “Latvijas Loto”, representatives of society and entrepreneurs, and to improve the draft law; secondly, to set a sufficiently long deadline for the submission of proposals at first reading, to approve the draft law at first reading. Accordingly, on behalf of the Commission, I call for the adoption of a draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1051	So, the commission doesn't demand urgency, if?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1052	Don't ask.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1053	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1054	Dear colleagues, Thank you, Imant, for quotes from my commission. I really believe that this is one example: when officials are asked to do something, they are doing it for long teeth, without any interest and even without even knowing what they have actually produced. Because I think to introduce this measure for one and a half years, to invest enormous technical capacity, to programme, to order services and so on... And if you, my fellow Members, open up an annotation and look at it, then you will understand that, as a result, the revenue in the budget will fall. And already in 2019 they will be 250 thousand smaller, in 2020 - 458 thousand, in 2021 - one million and 256 thousand smaller. To my question, how can you get it ready that the measure is as if it were to increase the revenue in the budget, but as a result of this, we only get minus, they were in no way able to answer, their answers were completely incoherent. And the other point I want to draw attention to. You have certainly noticed that for a few years there has been a huge struggle by entrepreneurs with the State Revenue Service, and you have been able to understand why new cash registers have to be introduced. However, this bill and its claim are evidence of a failure of power. Because why will this measure - the check lottery - only work for one and a half years? We can see that the preventive effect of measures is expected to gradually decrease over time. That means... If within a year and a half there is no way to improve the economy, what is the point of introducing cash registers? If, in addition to the incentives for people to demand cheques and everything else, the power is lowered; if after a year and a half, entrepreneurs have nevertheless found ways to optimise taxes, some alternative ways to avoid paying taxes... I believe that this would be absolutely right: to demand a quality of work. Work for which someone is able to carry responsibility and for which responsibility is required. However, I call on you to make the work done by officials to the end and to reject this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1055	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1056	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to my colleagues, both Mr Debtor and Mrs Silver, who have already spoken some of my speeches. I will only talk about what has not yet been said. Well, first of all, the very title of the law – “The Czech Game Law”... Basically, it won't be any game, because no games, as you say, the element there won't be. It'll be the most common lottery. The Czechs, who will meet these requirements - five euros or who are still there - and will be duly registered - will be able to participate in the lottery. So basically this law should be called - Czech lottery law. The Legal Bureau indicated that other terms should also be specified in this Law. For registration. We are still, for a year, fighting the introduction of that new cash registers. Entrepreneurs simply do not understand how to deal with it. One year ago, one of the suggestions was indeed on-line, or next generation, cash registers, which could perhaps really help to reduce the proportion of the shadow economy. At present, almost every small rural shop has an opportunity to pay with a card. This means that this Internet connection is already available there. In other words, these online cash registers, or cash registers connected online, would already be able to connect - and I will mention - about 90 percent of trading venues. Another nuance that appears in connection with this law. As Mr. Debtor pointed out, it is not entrusted to “Latvijas Loto” but is subject to separate procurement. We don't know who will win it. Obviously, it could be a private service provider. However, check-in is provided on the cekuspele website. ggov.lv. Thus, a private person who would win this competition would have every opportunity to use the website address, which contains a reference to the state institution - gov.lv. In addition, this law has been written in English at www., and Mrs Reinde may express her opinion on this in particular as to why we should actually lay down an English term in the law if without it we can do it completely calmly. Then it is already necessary to write a simple “ccouple” or “cekuspele”. gov.lv” without this at risk, which is not a long time ago it is necessary to place on any website. By the way, other state institutions as well as ministries should study it, because websites of some ministries do not open if you only enter a abbreviation and gov.lv - you must also write this www. And why should we create a new website? After all, there is vid.gov.lv. I understand that for some people and entrepreneurs this address is not quite pleasant, because it is associated with a not quite pleasant experience. However, if such a lottery is held and it is widely communicated to the public that, here you have the opportunity to ask for a check in good faith both for the service provider and for a trader of a good, you can also take part in a winning. And it must be registered on the SRS website. That would be advertising to our own national authority. Why are we afraid of this? That seems to me to be a little bit of a second. As I said, colleagues have told us about other things. Although Mr Debtor calls for the creation of a separate task force and this law to be passed on to the Subcommittee on Tax Policy, which I understand is led by Mr Putra, and probably to the fact that both this task force and the sub-committee will work very hard in one common body, because the deadline for the submission of proposals is scheduled for 3 September, as far as I understand. However, the whole system, as we will try to get out of this bog, is not, in my opinion, acceptable. I call for the 'no' vote at first reading on this draft law, for it to be recast and for it to be brought up to September with a high-quality bill, even though today's reservations from three different political forces. And then, I think, it will be supported by minor adjustments, not as it is now when the substance needs to be redrafted. I call on you to respect your own time and your work and to vote against this poor-quality bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1057	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1058	Mr Viļuma, I am speaking on behalf of the Commission. And the majority of the Commission decided on the principle: every initiative is condemned or supported. If the debtor was the initiator, then, the National Association, also in summer, work and come with a ready result, and with the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, we will have to improve this draft law during the summer period. That is the decision of the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1059	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Czech Game Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 58, against - 5, abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals. Mr. Debtor, deadline for the submission of proposals!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1060	I'm sorry. Deadline for submission of proposals - 3 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1061	Thank you. Proposals are due by 3 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1062	Dear colleagues, For the second reading, the Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Strengthening them in Land Registers”. No proposals were received. On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1063	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1064	Proposals for third reading shall be submitted by 24 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1065	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1066	Before the second reading, the Legal Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate”. On behalf of the Commission, I ask for support for the adoption of the draft law at second reading, as no proposal has been received.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1067	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1068	Proposals for third reading shall be submitted by 24 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1069	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 September this year. On the agenda the draft law - Amendments to the Land Books Act, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons. ( Interface: “Ritvar, you have! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1070	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Land Books Act” is a related law and no proposals were received for this draft law either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1071	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Land Books Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1072	Proposals shall be submitted by 24 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1073	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals for this draft law, too, is 24 September this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Labour Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1074	Dear Members of the Saeima! On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call on you to support the first reading draft law on the Labour Act (No 1254/Lp12). The draft law “Amendment to the Labour Law” was reviewed on several occasions at the meeting of the Commission. The Saeima received a draft law from the Cabinet of Ministers. At the last meeting of the Commission, at which we saw these amendments to the Labour Law, we invited the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Aseradens, and he took part in the meeting of our Committee. The draft law has been designed to facilitate the conclusion of the main agreements of the sector and thus ensure greater protection of workers' rights and interests and the limitation of wages in the shadow economy. The draft law provides for agreement between the parties to the general agreement of the sector on a lower premium for overtime work than the first paragraph of Section 68 of the Labour Law, if the general agreement provides for a substantial increase in the minimum salary. Dear Members, The Social and Labour Commission invites you to support the draft law at first reading. We do not require urgency, although we received such a request from the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs is committed to working with the draft law during the summer period to prepare it for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1075	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to Labour Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1076	The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs invites the Saeima to set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals on 10 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1077	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 10 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1078	Good evening! I guess I have to say that now, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment”” is addressed in a single package with the draft law “Law on the rental of residential premises”. Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” determine, among other things, which persons are entitled to receive assistance in solving the issues of the residential premises, as well as the procedure for providing assistance in solving the issues of the apartment. Taking into account that the current version of the law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” refers to the law “On Rent of Accommodations” and the regulation contained therein, it is necessary to make appropriate amendments to the law “On Assistance in Resolution of the Issues of the Apartment”, which would be in line with the new regulation of the draft law “Law on the Rental of Accommodations”. The draft law in the committee has been examined and approved for consideration by the Saeima at its meeting. Please also support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1079	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing Apartment Issues”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - no, for - 20. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1080	Taking into account that the next draft law will be the law on the rental of residential premises and is linked together, the Commission decided to wait until 1 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1081	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law on the rental of residential premises, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1082	Dear colleagues, New draft law – “Law on the rental of residential premises” – has been designed to clarify and improve the current regulation, to ensure the equivalent scope of obligations and rights of tenants and tenants, as well as to address other issues in the area of rental law. The new law provides for the establishment of rules for the rental and use of residential premises during the period of the lease and for the termination of the contract, regardless of how the residential space is owned. It is also foreseen that rental contracts for all apartments will have to be registered in the Land Register. The service will be free of charge and registration is planned as one of the preconditions for possible implementation of the obligations in the event of an uncontested event. The registration of the rental contract is also planned to provide publicly available and reliable information about the concluded transactions, to protect both the new acquirers and the former tenants in the event of the change of the lessee, and to prevent the possible conclusion of fictitious contracts. The new law will allow to speed up the settlement of disputes in cases where the tenant has to leave the dwelling after the expiry of the lease agreement, if no agreement on a new contract has been reached, the tenant has incurred a rent debt or in case of disposal of immovable property, if the tenant has not been entered in the land register. In order to protect more the interests of tenants, it is envisaged that the rentalr will only be able to increase the rent if the lease contract includes principles and procedures for increasing the fee. Significant changes in the planned term of rental contracts will be temporary and new contracts will have to be concluded on a temporary basis. At the end of the term, the living space will have to be released unless a new contract is concluded as provided for in the draft law submitted. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the draft law in the Commission has been discussed, noting that it will still require a great many improvements and corrections. There are many unanswered questions about the draft law drawn up at the moment, including the issue of the regulation of the transitional period, to understand to what extent the planned changes will affect the relationship between tenants and tenants, including the tenants of denationalised houses. The draft law has been examined and approved by the committee for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima at first reading. Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1083	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1084	Dear colleagues, Today, we heard the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, who, by the way, said that the Ministry is very active in housing policy. But this is a very interesting and long story, because I don't know what housing policy is in Latvia. Maybe someone knows. I have never felt it personally and have never seen it before. And in this case, the question is the rental of living spaces. The first version of this law appeared in the 1990s, when denationalisation processes and the return of property to legal owners and their heirs began actively. In the meantime, a whole population formed, which had legally rented apartments in denationalized homes. And to protect this lawful (I emphasize again - legal!) the interests of the tenants and protect them from eviction, the first version of this law was adopted, which is mainly about this issue only. After that, over time, this law has been raised with various improvements and additions, but the essence remained the same, it was unchanged. A few years ago, a new version of the law on the rental of residential premises appeared at the depths of the Ministry of Economics, which has not even gone further than the Cabinet of Ministers, because it did not fully meet the requirements to be met in this area. Now there is the third option that, to be honest, some things have been set up, but some things have been shifted to the administrative bed. If you read an annotation, the aim of the law is, on the one hand, to ensure access to housing for citizens, and on the other hand to develop the market of rental houses and rental apartments in Latvia. The development of the market sector through administrative methods seems to me to have failed in any country. Among the 44 articles contained in this bill, there is no talk about economic levers. The Minister said today that, here, the government is going to develop a programme - a construction programme - enabling municipalities to participate in this project. The draft law does not concern this area at all. Therefore, when it comes to the value of this bill, it is quite low. There's a lot of bunny here. For example, most of the 44 articles of the law regulate how the rental contract should look. In principle, it could be determined calmly by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, but the legislator (in the person of the Ministry of Economics) has chosen another path. Second moment. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) I can beat anyone. Second moment. The coherence of different sectors. This is about private-public relations. By the way, illustration of the effectiveness of housing policy... Yesterday we devoted some time to introducing innovations into the law on Social Apartments and Social Housing. If you carefully read the proposed draft law, then you noticed that the law we fought for here yesterday will lose its validity with the adoption of this law. So the job is under the tail of the cat! And that happens, unfortunately, also to other things - the cessation of shared property and to all the others, which have already been talked about a lot today. Why do we abstain from voting on this package? Firstly, to vote in favour means to support the Ministry of Economic Affairs in shaping a crèche. Secondly, we do not vote 'no' for one recital: there are two or three rules here that would really be useful and could be incorporated. Thirdly, because long ago the relationship governed very well by the Civil Law has been divided here, just like many other cases in the Special Housing Act... This field is regulated by more than 10 laws and more than 100 regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Haos is terrible here. Driving chaos - it is not a work of mind, but to pull out some rational grain, we refrain from supporting this draft law this time, to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1085	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1086	Good evening, colleagues! In my opinion, this draft law is a two-year work of the Ministry of Economics, which will have experienced the first reading of the Saeima today. I hope it will be, and I want to explain why this is important. If we want to develop housing projects in the regions, develop our own housing stock, then two thirds of this draft law is very important. But what Mr Dolgopolov said was that 20 years ago this law was passed mainly to protect the tenants of denationalised houses. The biggest problem is that the situation has changed dramatically at the moment, and this draft law... Unfortunately, the previous law hinders the development of new projects, rental houses in Latvia, especially in regions where it is now very topical. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading and for a sufficiently long deadline to be set for this, already today, in the knowledge that this draft law will have to be seen further by the next Saeima. And I also call on the next Saeima to support this draft law and move forward by striking a balance between tenants of denationalised houses and property developers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1087	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1088	I understand that everyone is very tired. I'll just say one sentence. There is one very positive moment. The Commission has agreed that, in future work on this draft law, we will take into account the Commission's statement that this law will apply only to newly concluded contracts. This is very important to protect the same unfortunate tenants of denationalised houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1089	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the rental of residential premises! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 52, for - no, for - 22. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1090	Colleagues, as previous speakers have said that significant improvements and corrections are needed to this draft law, the Commission proposes to submit proposals by 1 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1091	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance", first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1092	Highly honourable Members of the Saeima! On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I presented draft law No.1256/Lp12 - Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance, which the Saeima received from the Cabinet of Ministers and was drafted by the Ministry of Welfare. Very briefly, what are the main objectives of the draft law and its necessity. So improve the state of play in the provision of technical equipment. It is perfectly possible that, when we draft the law by the third, final, reading, we will have set our standards and that those who need technical assistance will also have the possibility to receive public compensation so that individuals can choose their own technical assistance. Secondly. The draft law establishes a supplement to the family state benefit as a form of additional income which is not taken into account when assessing the customer’s material resources, which primarily concern persons requesting social assistance from municipalities. The draft law provides for improvement of the content of social rehabilitation services of persons dependent on psychoactive substances, complementing also the range of recipients of the service. Fourth. According to the task and opinion expressed by the Ministry of Justice, the draft law clarifies the delegation for persons with oncological diseases who are entitled to receive psychosocial rehabilitation. And fifthly, the draft law provides for amendments regarding the content and organisation of social rehabilitation services for persons with various functional disabilities. Dear colleagues, When examining the draft law, we have received constructive objections and proposals from the Latvian organisation for the cooperation of people with special needs, SUSTENTO. Representatives of other non-governmental organisations were also present at the Commission’s meeting, including members of the board of the National Rehabilitation Centre Vaivari. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the adoption of a draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1093	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1094	The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs calls for a deadline for the second reading of the proposals on 3 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1095	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 September of this year. On the agenda - first reading of the draft law “On the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of India on Air Transport”. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1096	Hello! We work with document No 4883. By this draft law, Latvia amends its air traffic agreement with India in accordance with the requirements of the European Union. It will improve the legal basis of the agreement for the provision of air services between Latvia and India, thus improving marketing cooperation, flexibility of routes and liberalisation of freight services. The Foreign Affairs Commission looked at it at first reading and supported it. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1097	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amending the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of India on air traffic! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1098	Deadline for submission of proposals - June 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1099	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 29 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1100	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and the Sub-Commission on Public Health have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Patients’ Rights”. In essence, this draft law provides that a person has the right to be authorised to decide on further treatment by making an appropriate entry in the single sector electronic information system. Thus, the system, which is now being developed, also provides the means to add it to the main essence of the eHealth system. It is foreseen that a person will be able, without difficulty, to authorise an electronic signature online by someone who would decide in cases where the person is unable to do so himself because of illness or other circumstances. Thank you very much to the Group's Unity, Mr Alexey Loskkov, who created an initial understanding of this, and helped to legally formulate it. Then we worked with the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and prepared this draft law for first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1101	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1102	The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has decided to invite the Saeima to set the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading on 10 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1103	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 10 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Law of the Pedvāle Art Park”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1104	Dear colleagues, We work with the bill “Pedvāle Art Park Law” at second reading. Five proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1106	2. - the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been partially supported and included in the third report. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1107	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1108	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1110	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1112	And 5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1114	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1115	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on the Pedvāle Art Park Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1116	4 July
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1117	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 4 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Jelena Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1118	Hello, honorable Bureau! Colleagues! The Social and Labour Commission worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Law”. Five proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare Plakas is editorial and specifies the name of the disability information system. The Commission supported proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1120	2. - The Plokas proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare adds a list of users of the disability information system with two institutions who are granted the right to process the information contained in this information system. The Commission supported proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1122	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. The Minister's proposal provides for the administration of funding for persons with disabilities who study in universities and colleges, up to five per cent of the state budget resources allocated to these services. The Commission supported this proposal. But I want to apply... to express your opinion immediately...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1123	So you want to debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1125	Please press the “microphone” button. Yeah. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1126	Colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this proposal has not been properly debated within the Commission. The proposal is unclear: a certain amount of funding in the amount of five per cent of the state budget funds only for the administration of funding for persons with disabilities who study in universities and colleges. I would like to remind you that the procedure for calculating and allocating the funding necessary for the assistance service is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers, not the amount of funding to be determined by law. I therefore call on you to abstain from voting in favour of this proposal. And I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1127	I closed the debate. The Commission has supported the proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Karlis Shadursky! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - no, for - 21. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1128	4. - Plokas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, which intends to extend the term of issue of regulations of the Cabinet until 1 November of this year. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1130	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, which provides that the introduction of assistant services for persons with disabilities studying in universities and colleges shall take effect on 1 January 2019. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1132	Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1133	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Invalidity Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1134	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 3 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1135	Thank you. Proposals are due by 3 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law on animal breeding and breeding, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1136	Honourable Members! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law on Animal Breeding and Breeding. The aim of the law is to introduce a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 to improve the system of animal breeding and breeding. The draft law specifies the competence of the state administration institutions, associations and organisations engaged in the breeding and breeding of farm animals and domestic (room) animals, establishes new tasks for the Latvian University of Agriculture, as well as ensures consistency between Latvian regulatory enactments and legal provisions of the European Union. Request to support the draft law at first reading
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1137	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on animal breeding and breeding. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1138	Proposals are due by 31 August.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1139	Deadline for the submission of proposals - which August?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1140	31.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1141	So the proposals are due by 31 August this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1142	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared amendments to the Law on Land Management for consideration at the Saeima sitting. Seven proposals have been received by the Commission. The proposal is from Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1144	2. - Mr. Tatar's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1146	3. - Mr. Tatar's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1148	4. - Mr. Tatar's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1150	5. - the proposal from our former colleague Ingmars Līdak. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1151	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1152	6. - Mr. Līdaka's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1153	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1154	And seven. - the proposal by Mr Arniss, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, who is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1155	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1156	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. Request for support at third reading
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1157	Second reading. Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1158	Second... Second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1159	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Land Management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1160	We will wait until 31 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1161	21 or 31?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1162	Until August 31.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1163	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 August this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1164	Dear colleagues, The amendments proposed for the second reading in the State Funded Pensions Law effectively address the issue, which has been topicality of society for a long time, i.e., the possibility of inheritance of these pension capital. These amendments were already discussed by the Commission at the autumn session and continued at the winter part-session. In the spring session we have successfully reached, in the opinion of the Commission, a very successful solution, because the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Welfare, Ministry of Justice, State Social Insurance Agency, Financial and Capital Market Commission, Latvian Bank, Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia, Association of Commercial Banks of Latvia as well as citizens' initiatives submitted to the Saeima, “On an Inheritable Savings of Second Pension Level”. Overall, 18 proposals are therefore put forward for consideration. 1. is the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is, of course, supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1166	2. there is a proposal from the commission responsible, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1168	3. is the proposal of the committee responsible, which provides for three options for dealing with funded pension capital: to transfer it to the formation of a first-tier pension; to add funded pension capital of a person included in an inheritance or to provide for the inheritance of this pension capital in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Law. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1170	Proposal 4 is a proposal from the commission responsible, which has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1172	5. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission which provides for action in cases where a member of the occupational pension scheme requests an old-age pension, as well as options to choose what to do with the occupational occupational pension: either to add unfunded pension capital or to acquire a life insurance policy. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1174	6. Mrs Inguna Silver's proposal, which has been partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1175	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1176	7. there is a proposal from the committee responsible, which provides for a detailed scheme of how the institutions and also those who receive this inherited funded pension capital act. Proposal 7 has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1178	Further, from the proposal 8 to the proposal 16 inclusive, all the proposals from the commission responsible, which exclude the texts voted at first reading, are rejected. Let me explain briefly. When in the Saeima we looked at the laws contained in the 2018 budget package, including the Funded Pensions Act, then in fact amendments were already made to all these articles within the framework of the package law and came into force with 1 January. The Commission therefore decided that maintaining these versions was no longer relevant and excluded these versions of the first reading. Therefore, Proposal No 8 is a proposal from the committee responsible, which has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1180	9. is a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1182	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1184	11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1186	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1188	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1190	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1192	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1194	And 16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1196	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. A deadline shall be set for the entry into force of these amendments, which will determine the treatment of funded pension capital, i.e. from 1 January 2020. Proposal No 17 also provides that 80 per cent of this funded pension capital will be subject to free action, while 20 per cent of capital will be transferred to the first pension level. And that's because, from 2010, as you know, pension legislation has the possibility that part of the state, in cases where they do not own income, carries out this state insurance. It would not be right that the contributions paid by the State would also fall within this general system of inheritance, so that there is a mechanism that 80 per cent of the funded pension capital is subject to that system of inheritance and 20 per cent is added to the first level. The Commission, of course, supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1198	And also the 18th proposal, which is on the norms of the coming into force of the law, is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1200	On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, please support amendments to the State Funded Pensions Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1201	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Funded Pensions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1202	Proposals for third reading shall be submitted by 18 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1203	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 18 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1204	Good evening, colleagues! So the Social and Labour Commission has prepared a draft law on the second reading of the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and their Liquids. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission has been working on this draft law since 15 September last year. During this time, a number of Commission meetings have been held on this draft law, and a working group has been set up to coordinate the views of the various stakeholders involved in drawing up the draft law and clarifying and lowering the rules and reaching consensus, and this is the result of our work. Today, we are looking at the four proposals put forward for the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1206	2. - Member Vital Orlov's proposal. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1207	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1208	3. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1210	4. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1212	Please vote in favour of the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1213	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1214	Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading: 3 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1215	Thank you. Proposals are due by 3 September of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1216	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined at first reading the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions’, which aims to improve the effectiveness of the exchange of information between different types of lenders on the creditworthiness of borrowers in order to avoid that the same borrower borrows inappropriately in different non-bank creditor systems. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1217	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1218	The deadline for the second reading is 3 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1219	Thank you. Proposals are due by 3 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1220	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared amendments to the Law on the Administration of the Sea Safety of the Sea, which provides for improvement of the regulatory framework in the field of monitoring of ship traffic and exchange of information data. The existing systems will be merged into a single national information system - the International Freight Logistics and Port Information System. The system manager will be the Ministry of Transport, the holder - the Latvian Maritime Administration, and the law will enter into force on 1 January 2019. Request for support at first reading
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1221	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1222	Proposals - by 31 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1223	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 31 August this year. On the agenda - draft law on consumer protection law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1224	Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy invites you to read the draft alternative law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection", which includes the draft laws "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection" (No.1290/Lp12) and "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection" (No.1294/Lp12), on which we decided and paid to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission last week. As demonstrated by past practice and as the study of the Consumer Centre for Consumer Protection shows, since 2016, when a number of restrictions came into force under the Consumer Rights Law, effective regulation of so-called 'quick credit limitation' has not been achieved. On the contrary! In 2017, there was more activity of non-bank credit providers, the amount of loans granted increased. Changes in sector regulation are needed. The proposed amendments aim to protect the consumer against over-indebtedness; to ensure that the information necessary for assessing creditworthiness is available between the consumer and the credit provider; to improve the quality of the information necessary for assessing creditworthiness; to facilitate the assessment of consumer solvency; and to ensure the proportionality of the overall cost of credit. The Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1225	Member Edward Smilten has applied for the debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1226	Colleagues! This is one of the last draft laws today, but I think very important when it comes to quick loans. Lift your hand, which of you has used fast credit services in the last three years! Anybody? That's right! Because it doesn't matter to you, you're not the target audience of fast credit firms. Those who have stable, good income, do not need a loan, rather make up savings. Those with stable, legal but low income also do not need loans, as banks can receive loans and credit cards. For those who have regular cash difficulties, illegal income, damaged credit history and who make financial decisions emotionally and impulsively - yes, they are the real ones! They are covered by advertising that is issued by fast credit companies, because there are no conditions for quick loans - just send an SMS or click on the Internet. In short, people who are in chronic financial difficulties and who are in a difficult material situation are the real ones, which are covered by quick credit. But, colleagues, is Section 201 “Frequency” of the Criminal Law: “For various types of loans, which have been made knowingly using the heavy material condition of the borrower, and whose conditions are unduly burdensome for him (fruiting), - a penalty with temporary deprivation of liberty or forced labour or a fine.” Quick loans are, in most cases, allowed by law for such fruiting because these lenders balance on this fine border between the statutory activity and the criminal liability for unauthorised fruiting, using the heavy material situation of borrowers. This is a clearly visible business model. Man has financial problems, he borrows money, he cannot repay, he takes another credit. This is a common practice. And this time the problem is much bigger: it is such a closed circular system or rather the loop in which this man falls. We enjoy the National Development Plan, which talks about Latvia, Latvia's situation and the vision of the future. What are the main challenges? It says that the level of poverty in Latvia is one of the highest in the European Union. In terms of income levels, Latvia is the most unequal country in the European Union. Colleagues! Fast loans balance on this fine border, bringing people into debt and even more poverty and poverty, robbing them of their future opportunities to use their income for their personal or family needs. It's such a peculiar birthplace. It is also misleading to believe that quick loans are short-term unsecured loans. Security, colleagues, is very valuable: all future income from hard work is pledged. The reports show clearly that 170 thousand people in Latvia are unable to make payments above 200 euros in time. That's the target audience for quick loans! Payments above EUR 2000 are delayed by around 45 000 people. These late payments also include payments for quick loans. The result: a country is struggling with severe problems that, not even in the long term, but already today, represent a major threat to the future and the economy of our country. The country is fighting to return, but it is fighting the consequences. The reason is often the excessive financial burden that people are going abroad to make profits. We have seen both LNT stories and others, where people refer to it as one of the arguments for departure. The country is also struggling with the shadow economy. Today, we also adopted the Czech game law as an instrument to combat it. Working time accounting problems in construction and other things - these are the consequences, colleagues! There are whole sectors in which the situation is very well known that it is the worker who, rather than the employer, insists on cash payment - on payment in the envelope. So quick credit is one of the causes of the shadow economy. And it's not a myth. Yesterday... last night, the Chairman of the Board Jānis Endzins said at the meeting of the commission: “The number of people who can be employed is decreasing every year.” And it is a reality that the employee goes to the employer and says, “I have debts, so please pay me in the envelope!” Envelope, colleagues! So this person will not be socially insured and the burden will lie on the other taxpayers. These are losses of millions of euros in the Latvian state budget. Latvia thus loses its human resources and taxpayers. The LTRK called on the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima to take active action already this summer. Colleagues! We are adopting laws by which we deny these taxpayers access to healthcare and in other ways try to stimulate them to pay, but this is a fight against the consequences and not the causes. The Review of the Consumer Centre provides a fairly realistic, clear picture that non-bank credit providers have re-granted EUR 586 million of credit to consumers, an increase of EUR 48 million over the previous year. So nine percent more. Another important thing. Distance credit extension services are increasingly being used. The total number of extensions of distance credit has increased by more than 40 per cent. On 31 December last year, there was only one third of the distance loans in the portfolio of non-bank lenders without any extension, with repayment in a single instalment, contrary to the results that were previously available; there this proportion was much higher. The number of loans extended three or more times: from 36 to 43 per cent has increased in particular. Colleagues! Therefore, they can no longer be referred to as quick loans; they have already become long loans. If it is not possible to pay, then it is offered to split the credit, pay according to the payment schedule, and this is more like banking services, with only a wild interest rate. There is no way out for these people. The majority of banks are also unable to credit, and these people are in debt traps. They are already thousands, therefore, the Association of the Regions of Latvia offers clear rules for the game in the future. Everyone would know: if the money borrowed, the maximum borrowing rate, the total cost, would not exceed 25 per cent. The game rules are the same - 0.07 per cent per day. Everything that exceeds these 25 per cent, according to Article 21 of the Criminal Law, will be unauthorized fruiting using the person's heavy material condition. Thus, the Association of the Regions of Latvia wants to radically reduce the slavery of Latvian people's debts, the subsequent emigration and departure into the shadow economy. This draft law includes the amendments that we made in the last sitting, as well as the urgent amendments made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. They are brought together in the same bill. I hope that the head of the Commission, taking responsibility as rapporteur, will be strong enough to push these amendments through this summer and to put them in order. Thank you. I invite you to support it!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1227	Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the debate... The Members of the Saeima, Abu Meri, Dalder, Brigmanis, Dzintars and Gaidis Berzins, ask to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the sitting of the Saeima will continue without interruption. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1228	I propose an absolutely basic way of resolving this. We do as Christianity, Judaism, and Islam say: fruiting is sin, and we do not. And everything will be fine. There will be no problem. Let's take it and ban it!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1229	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what is a very brief addition?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1230	There's nothing to say. The Commission will certainly work.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1231	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1232	Let us wait until 5 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1233	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is July 5, this year. On the agenda: Draft law on amendments to the electoral law of the European Parliament, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1234	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The National Administration and Municipal Commission, in cooperation with the Central Electoral Commission, has developed amendments to the European Parliament Election Law. The aim of the amendments is to further improve the development of the electoral system as a whole and to give voters more opportunity to choose the most convenient election district in the European Parliament elections in these specific amendments. As a result, the voter's activity would be increased. Remember that 41.34 per cent of the voters voted in the European Parliament elections in 2004, but only 30.24 per cent in 2014. The draft law offers additional solutions so that the voter can vote in the polling station abroad on prior registration, and the voter in Latvia can vote in any district within three days before the day of elections if it is possible to ensure compliance with the principle “one voter – one vote”. That is, the respective polling station and the polling station on whose electoral roll the voter is registered shall ensure, in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Central Electoral Commission, the electronic exchange of electoral lists. The committee of the polling district, whose electoral roll is registered by the voter, may confirm that the voter has not voted. Such an amendment to the electoral law of the European Parliament would be a good introduction, which could also be used in future elections to local governments as well as the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. On behalf of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1235	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1236	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 14 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1237	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 August this year. Dear colleagues, The commission of mandates, ethics and applications requests to change the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On consent to search of a person, start search in the declared place of residence of the person, inspecting the property removed from the person’s car and the property removed as a result of search, as well as removal and inspection of the car” and to include this draft decision after point 58 of the agenda. Do Members object to these changes to the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1238	Colleagues! Everyone has certainly heard about various peripetations and difficulties in the design, approval and further development of a memorial complex for the victims of Soviet occupation. Now that all these issues have been fully resolved, it is finally possible to start construction, but it is quite clear that by 1 October 2018, which is now the deadline set by the law, it is impossible to implement this project, because it is planned to be implemented in two stages. Taking all these circumstances into account, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission calls for this deadline to be postponed to 31 December 2020 so that the budget for the following years can be planned accordingly. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1239	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupational Museum of Latvia” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1240	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1241	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupational Museum of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1242	Colleagues, as I said, this is in fact a technical amendment relating to the budgetary procedure. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported today at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1243	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the Occupational Museum of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Credit Register Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1244	Colleagues! This draft law is in fact related to the just examined amendments to the Consumer Rights Protection Law, as well as to the related amendments to the Credit Institutions Law. This draft law provides that non-bank creditors will in future become users of the Credit Register operated by the Bank of Latvia and that both information about non-bank loans will be provided and received accordingly. The draft law is driven by a commission, and it has actually been prepared by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Bank of Latvia. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1245	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Registers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1246	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1247	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 September of this year. So there is a proposal for a deadline. Please turn on the microphone for Juris Wolums!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1248	Dear colleagues, Since the amendments to the Law on the Credit Register and, indeed, the amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions that we have discussed before are largely related to the draft law coming from the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, i.e. with the amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection, where the deadline for submitting proposals is 5 July, I would call for this draft law with which it is closely linked to each other to be the deadline for submitting proposals on 5 July. Let's not wait until 3 September! I call for the deadline for tabling proposals for this draft law to be set on 5 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1249	Thank you. So there is a proposal to set 5 July this year as the deadline for submitting proposals. We must vote after the procedure for a further deadline. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Credit Register Law” - 3 September this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - 8, for - 2. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 3 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1250	Good evening, colleagues! The draft law was drafted by the Commission on the basis of letters submitted by various non-governmental organisations, such as the Latvian Medical Association, the Latvian Association of Sworn Auditors, the Latvian Union of Architects, and the Latvian Council of Sworn Advocates. Various ministerial proposals were also received. The draft law drawn up provides for the possibility to exempt from the obligation to submit a declaration by a public official to those individuals who are delegated to perform the tasks of the public administration. This concerns the entities mentioned in Section 4, Paragraph Three of the Law. Similarly, the draft law provides that the state officials referred to in the second paragraph of Article 4 are obliged to submit a declaration of the state official only if it is determined by the head of a public person (institution) or a person authorised by him, taking into account possible corruption risks of the person in the relevant position. The draft law also provides that the declarations made by officials in the system will be kept for a period of five years, i.e. on the basis of the provisions of the new General Data Protection Regulation, these data may not be stored forever. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1251	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1252	August 10th
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1253	Thank you. Proposals are due by 10 August this year. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision “On consent to search of a person, start of search at the declared place of residence of the person, in the car in use of the person and inspection of the goods removed as a result of search, as well as removal and inspection of the vehicle”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1254	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, In its meeting of 21 June of this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima considered the application of the Prosecutor General’s Office for consent to searching of a person, initiation of search in the declared place of residence of the person, inspection of the property removed from the vehicle used by the person, as well as for removal of the car and performance of inspection in accordance with Section 318 of the Criminal Law – Abuse of Service Status. And this person is the Member of the 12th Saeima Askolds Kļaviņš. Having listened to the representatives of the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption and the Office of the Prosecutor General, the Members, unanimously voting in favour, supported the draft decision prepared by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft decision being drawn up.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1255	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Askold Klavin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1256	Hello, dear colleagues! For me, like you, it was a surprise. I have nothing to do with it. So, if you need it, I'll be happy to let you look at everything that's in my place of residence, everything that's in my car. For some time now, there has been rumors that there will be such a thing that I have changed my declared place of residence to Liepaja. Those who know me know that I'm in Liepaja every week. I have a house there, I really do there also “fill up”. And if it's about fuel and car, as in the draft decision... But... In any case, I beseech you: be peaceable. I will show and tell the law enforcement authorities everything and I hope that all this will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1257	Name to Member Augustis Brigman.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1258	Dear colleagues, The Union of Greens/Farmers will support the extradition of Ascolds Kļaviņš. We believe that a Member cannot hide behind his immunity. And the other question. I certainly believe that this is not a political order. At this time, in the face of pre-election, some love to say that everything that happens to Members... that they are some conspiracy. I have complete confidence in the integrity, professionalism and professionalism of our law enforcement institutions. I am absolutely convinced of the honour of Ascold Kļaviņš, my group. Let the law enforcement bodies decide on this matter! That would be the right thing to do. We will vote in favour of the issue of Ascolda Kļaviņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1259	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1260	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! That is how it is now! I am not talking about arresting Members; I am talking about procedure. We see how this happens. What happened yesterday does not withstand criticism! There are documents in front of me that we received yesterday. To shake something - you can see from the decision. Then there is information from Gunārs Kūtra that informs us that Vitaly Orlovs has applied for something. We didn't hear anything in the sitting. Well, I'm sorry! Today is clear. The application by the Prosecutor General's Office is: to shake Askolads Kļaviņa. And Mr Orlov, Chairman of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, also explains that it is, in principle, abusing the position... I got it. If we're talking about the village, then it doesn't make us honor... what happened yesterday. And by the time I've been here, I want to remind you that we have a roll of Saeima's order. Unfortunately, there was a working group on the parliamentary order roll, led by Solvita Āboltiņa, where we dealt with Article 17 of the parliamentary order roll, which in fact foresees possible consequences for both Artus Neminiņš and Askolds Kļavins - the initiation and return of prosecution from the parliamentary sittings. I think that is wrong. If any bad thing is hanging, then it is now... After all this search you will not be able to tell the voters that Askolds Kļaviņš is an angel, but we squandered him in every case if even further prosecutions are not followed. By this I would like to say that Article 17 should either be amended accordingly or excluded. We will no longer be able to do that. The Member against whom prosecution is being initiated should continue to work at the sittings of the Saeima. Because what happened to Daini Liepiņa, for example, is not right. In any case, I can praise today that a fantastic evolution took place during the day, when both the Saeima's Legal Office and the Chairman of the Saeima's Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission, Mr Orlov, took all note of everything. Thank you. I hope that next time there are any searches, the articles of the Criminal Procedure Law will appear, because there are still extraordinary sittings...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1261	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1262	Dear colleagues, I very much hope that today we will not find it difficult to make the right decision. For if institutions require permission to search, we have no reason to doubt and vote against or abstain. But I want to remind you that at the 11th Saeima we have repeatedly discussed the need to amend Article 29 of the Satversme, which establishes immunity. We voted yesterday, we made a decision. Today... I think everyone needs to understand that if we are talking about arrest, about prosecution, it is logical that we are discussing the matter, we are making a decision. But there is a special feature of shaking. And in a situation where the prosecutor's office or KNAB or the police, instead of driving and carrying out this activity quickly, go to the Saeima and ask for permission... and, sorry, I also saw today before we started to speak, to discuss, the media had already published both the name and the surname. This does not contribute to an effective discharge. Therefore, colleagues, I believe that we really have grounds to return to the amendments to the Constitution and to amend Article 29 by providing that search can be carried out without the consent of the Saeima. I very much hope that we can accept it. But today, I think, there is no doubt to my fellow Members that this decision needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1263	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1264	Colleagues, yesterday was absurd, and today it is absurd, I think, continues. One reason. Before making a decision, I have to see some reason. I do not see this justification. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “Can you entrust information?” ) Do we often support or do not support decisions taken by the Commission? But they are secret too, and they cannot be disclosed either. The generally accepted practice has always been that the Prosecutor General's Office is writing some explanation to present Members. Next, Mr. Judin, you are a very “excellent” specialist in my perception. Next. Colleagues, are very basic before making a decision... But could all of this be done calmly, quietly, without the decision of the Saeima? If a person is not invited to question, if he is not offered to show something... Why not? In principle, these are elementary things that any investigator knows clearly. If a Member does not object, no immunity shall play any role whatsoever. I personally cannot vote in favour or against or abstain for one reason: I see no reason why this was not done before, in the normal way, and why the Saeima should now give its consent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1265	I closed the debate. Does Mr Orlov want to add something more on behalf of the Commission? I don't want to. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On consent to search of a person, start of search at the declared place of residence of the person, in the car in use of the person and check out the property removed as well as to removal and inspection of the car”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 61, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to law on preservation, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and fact of cooperation of persons with detection of the KGB”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1266	Dear colleagues, On August 26, 1991, our transitional parliament - the Supreme Council - decided to terminate the activities of the National Security Committee of the LSSR on the territory of Latvia. It is 27 years since this decision was taken, and we will decide today, on 21 June 2018, on a draft law that will remove the secret soap bags. Well, it will almost be removed, because they will be placed in the National Archives of Latvia, and interested persons will be able to see them in the archives premises. If we do not accept this bill, it will not be possible. In your words... On behalf of the Commission, I would say that this draft law provides for the opening of bags, but does not provide for the screening of Czech bags, provides for an analysis, but does not lay down the procedure and methodology that the archives should do. The draft law has been prepared by the Working Party of the Parliamentary Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs (and I would particularly like to praise Rittvar Janson), which desperately... I think it was quite a good piece of legislation at the last minute. A number of ministries - the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Science - took part in the working group, as well as representatives from the Latvian National Archives, the Constitutional Protection Bureau, the State Data Inspectorate and (The Head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) Saeima Legal Bureau. The working group also included members of the LSSR Committee for Research, on which the final reports were awaited in vain. And to a large extent, the lack of this final report has also determined the final result of the draft law. What should I say to you without everything that is written in the record? Is that clear? First, with the adoption of this law, the KGB archives are legally and practically centralised, collected from various institutions - from the Security Police, the Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior and the Constitutional Protection Bureau - and in fact become such a unified, indistinguishable set that is placed in the National Archives of Latvia, where these documents are intended for eternal storage. Permanent storage! After the adoption of the law, valuable KGB documents will become part of the national documentary heritage. Secondly, on finance. Because, I have to say, yesterday we approved one bill, where it was not really well with the funding... And I simply have a duty to inform you about what is written in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. Annotation of the draft law also states: in order to implement the draft law, additional expenditure is necessary for the Ministry of Culture, the Latvian National Archives and the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Constitutional Protection Office. A total of 139 thousand EUR 883 and 71 cents are needed. The annotation sets out in detail what this money is meant for - cabinets, space for cosmetic repairs, video surveillance cameras, tables, chairs, computer hardware, employee salaries, and so on. Unfortunately, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance indicates that the draft amendments to the law, which require additional funding, cannot be considered as an unforeseen event. Consequently, the expenditure in question cannot be covered by the National Budget Programme “Equity for Contingency” because it is not in line with its objective. To comfort the opinion of the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola, it is stated that while understanding the importance of the issue, the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with other ministries of the sectors, will evaluate the implementation of the budget for 2018 in an attempt to find the necessary funding for the implementation of the draft law. Thus, there is no money to implement the transfer of KGB documents to the National Archives of Latvia, as provided for in the draft law. Well, hopefully this money will still be found. That would be the most important thing. I call for support for the adoption of this draft law, because otherwise we will never see the content of their bags. It was on behalf of the Commission. Can I have my own name, too?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1267	Mr Baloža, do you want to have a debate, too?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1268	I have already tabled a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1269	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1270	In fact, the thing that I did not really say on the part of the Commission is this. First of all, it has to be said that the previous Saeima on 23 May 2014 amended the law, which we are now amending, and in principle a bomb of a certain amount of time was placed there - that we are putting the KGB bags open this spring and we will do so on the basis of a report prepared by the LSWU Scientific Research Commission until 31 May. And this law, which we are now watching, was amended specifically in Article 1, sixth paragraph. It changed the words that politically and historically... I mean, let's see what we're gonna do... The purpose of the law is to evaluate these bags politically and historically. It was thrown out, and the words “scientific, historical” were put instead. This is not an accidental situation: politicians have tried to impose this obligation on scientists. Now scientists, as scientists have, researched how they taught. I think that work is to a large extent well done. It can be discussed whether this committee of inquiry really spent half a million euros on it. There was also a request from the Commission. We looked at it... But what I want to emphasise is specifically about this draft law: I think we need to adopt amendments to this law today, and I support the adoption of this draft law. So, colleagues, please vote in favour! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1271	I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the maintenance, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with detection of the KGB”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law at first reading is supported Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1272	July 5th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1273	The deadline for submitting proposals is July 5, this year. The agenda shall be for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, for the expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision “On the abolition of Arvja Garā from the position of a judge of Rezekne Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1274	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission decided today on a document received from the Judicial Disciplinary Committee. The Judicial Disciplinary Committee has decided that the judge Arvis Garais should be removed from office, indicating that the actions of the judge are assessed as unworthy. You also have access to these decisions of disciplinary panel, where you can read more detailed grounds. The Legal Commission unanimously supported the draft decision “On cancellation of Arvja Garā from the position of a judge of Rezekne Court”. I call for support for the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1275	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On cancellation of Arvja Garā from the position of a judge of Rezekne Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018””. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1276	Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 20 June this year, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission reviewed the reallocation of the appropriations supported by order No.276 and decided to agree to a reallocation of appropriations of 400 thousand euros to the sub-programme “ Film Sector” of the Ministry of Culture in order to ensure co-financing of foreign films in Latvia. The foreign film collection programme established in 2013 has proved its contribution not only to the film industry but also to the general public economy – the services sector, hotels, catering, transport, security and other areas. State co-financing of 20 per cent of the investments made by filmmakers companies in Latvia is ensured by a full financial statement of the actual investments (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer.) , and according to the documents, this money, in the form of a wide range of taxes, goes to the budget in the form of labour tax, value added tax, excise duty and social contributions. About 24 per cent of the investment is on average revenue in the budget. Since 2013, 20 foreign film projects have been co-financed by this programme and around 11 million euros have arrived in Latvia. In 2018, around 860 thousand were allocated to this programme, and according to the information provided by the Ministry of Culture this year - the first year in practice - there was intense competition and all funds have already been allocated. It is important that Latvia successfully competes with many other European countries that also attract foreign producers with this co-financing programme. The U.S. company, which, in cooperation with Latvian producers, has already gained its first experience in Latvia, has shown that it is ready to implement new projects this year, investing around two million euros. In view of the fact that the ‘Methorology and Hazardous Waste Management’ programme will not use all the funds foreseen in the 2018 budget this year, it is proposed to re-allocate part of these funds for this measure so that they will not immediately go into deficit, but bring more funds into the budget than will be invested. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the reallocation of appropriations.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1277	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1278	Dear colleagues, Yesterday, we listened to the sad story that the Salaspils nuclear reactor decommissioning measure lacked money, and today, once again, one absurdity, which is directed in the opposite direction: funds from this programme are being redeployed for cinema admission. Of course, it's so peculiar... Careful, caring host... If this year the implementation of the project does not begin as such, it does not mean that it will not start next year. Of course, it will begin next year. This is simply a kind of political game - funds from one ministry led by the National Union are being redeployed to the other ministry, without thinking at all about the impact it has on the economy as a whole or on taxpayers' wallets. I say once again: the next year, money will be needed again - and not only to the extent that the Salaspils nuclear reactor will be eliminated. I am simply calling on you to be sensible hosts, as has been repeatedly called for here, and not to be submissive to political transactions such as those conducted here before the elections. Please do not support this type of decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1279	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? No, no! Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the re-allocation of the appropriations established by the Saeima in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 6, for - 20. Decision adopted. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. Draft decision on the establishment of the Latvian Innovation and Technology Support Fund. On behalf of the Commission for Sustainable Development, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1280	Dear colleagues, As technologies develop and labour costs increase, Latvia increasingly loses the advantages of lower-cost labour. Latvia's growth will be determined by its ability to use knowledge to modernise production processes and to change business models, to develop technologies, to create and commercialise ideas and research development. Latvia's innovacy is much lower than that of most Member States of the European Union. Latvia ranks 23rd in the European Commission's Innovation Scoreboard, lagging behind our neighbours. In 2017 and 2018, the Saeima Sustainable Development Commission, in collaboration with a wide range of scientists, discussed the issue of science and innovation ecosystem in Latvia. The Commission adopted a decision on the need for a consolidated and understandable innovation ecosystem in Latvia, in cooperation with universities and other higher education institutions, scientific institutes, business representatives and financial experts. There is a need for a one-stop shop co-financed by the state budget and the private sector - the Latvian Innovation and Technology Support Fund, which would operate according to government-designed programmes or orders from private investors, providing research and production interaction. The Commission evaluated similar funds in several Member States of the European Union – Sweden, Finland, Denmark – when drafting the decision. The Members of the Commission voted unanimously in favour of setting up the fund. I call for my support for the draft decision prepared by the Commission on Sustainable Development. Finally, I will quote Dr. Indrikis Muižnieks, the rector of the University of Latvia, on this draft decision: “The adoption of this decision at the Saeima could finally give the necessary impetus to the development of the Latvian higher education, science and technology transfer system.” Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1281	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the creation of the Latvian Innovation and Technology Support Fund! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While preparing the registration results... I call you all to rest, to wait for Johns. Celebrate, but celebrate wisely! Name Member of the Saeima, Gunārs Kūtris, for reporting the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1282	Colleagues, another registration. Not registered at the moment: Inesis Boķis, Lolita Čigāne, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Jānis Kžads, Andrejs Klementjevs... is, Ivan Klementyev, Līga Kozlovska, Inese Laizāne, Jeļena Lazareva, Anrijs Matīss, Aivars Meija, Rihards Melgailis, Artis Rasmanis, Jānis Ruks, Veiko Spolitis, Jānis Trupovnieks, Jānis Upenieks, Jānis Urbanovičs and Jānis Vucāns. Merry Ligo Festival!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-21-PT12-490-U1283	I'm closing the sitting.
