ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Colonel is 9 a.m. I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 10 May 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and include in it the draft decision ‘On the appointment of the Anastasia Pasjuga as a judge of a district (city) court’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Gaidis Berzins, Dzintars, Dombrava, Cilinskis, Kiršteins, Chair and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “A change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Elections””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “Yes, yes! ” ) Do Members have objections? And the objections. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” to be included on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 9, for - 51. Consequently, the draft decision is not included on the agenda of the sitting. We will begin to examine the agenda adopted by the Bureau. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by Member Smiltēna, Ruka, Šics, Viļuma and Melgailis be submitted to all commissions and that the Legal Commission be the committee responsible. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Speaker of the Saeima! A year later, and, believe me, it will take time quickly, the Saeima will have to give an answer to a very important question - who will be the next President of Latvia, the Supreme Officer of Latvia, in fact, the first person, actually symbolic... President of the centenary of Latvia. As Arveds Bergs, a member of the Constitutional Meeting, explained in his speech almost a hundred years ago, the task of the President of Latvia would be to follow (the Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) Parliament's work and, when it is observed that a parliament is incapable of working, accidental votes or people's thoughts and opinions (and thus public interests) are no longer in conflict with the composition of the Saeima, to act accordingly. So the President represents the whole of Latvian society and acts in its common interest. There is a rather misconception that the function of the President of Latvia is narrowly representative. The Constitution gives the President a relatively wide mandate: the President of Latvia is an essential balancing mechanism in the state administration; he serves as the whole nation of Latvia – the whole nation of Latvia! - and the uniting power of society, the guardian of justice and democracy, who must see, colleagues, visualize and by his own impulse must guide the solution of the most important problems on the agenda, as well as be able to inspire and unite the people; Latvia must be served in such a way that society can be proud of the President as the face and symbol of all Latvia. The Law on the Election of the President of Latvia sets out four basic criteria: a Latvian citizen who does not have citizenship of another country; has reached the age of 40; a perfect reputation and one of the restrictions stipulated by the law, i.e. not in detention, is effective and so on. But in these criteria, fellow Members, there is a lack of the most important - society (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) support and public confidence. This is how these criteria are lacking. So far, colleagues have dominated two directions: one - not to change anything and to vote as it is currently intended - in a secret vote, in an opaque procedure; and the other idea that has developed - in a nation-elected President. It immediately turns into an idea of a popular elected president with a wide range of powers, thus disrupting the fine balance of power established in the Constitution, architecture. We have found a third solution, which is central, balanced and solves the fundamental issue - the public's desire to be involved in the process of selecting and evaluating candidates for President of Latvia. We therefore propose the idea of the election of the President, supported by the public. The amendments proposed by the LRA set out two main principles. First. The election of the President of the State shall be made public. So there is an open vote in the Saeima, no political market anymore, and this process becomes more transparent and understandable to the public. Second. We are introducing this nuance that the public is involved in the process of selecting Presidential candidates. The nomination of candidates and the final name are left in the competence of the Saeima, but the public is given the opportunity to assess the candidates through the collection of signatures (e.g., Latvia.lv and the CVK), and candidates must overcome the qualification barrier. This criterion - public support - must be the result of an evaluation of the candidates. And our limit would be 50,000 signatures. It would discipline the Saeima and make it more careful to address the question of who will be the next President. This would strengthen democracy, openness, public confidence and participation in political processes. Colleagues! This solution would motivate many people who have been respected by society to stand up to date, knowing that the President's chair has been the object of the political market and that the process is hidden and opaque. Hardly many self-respecting people would be willing to engage with their candidacy, knowing that often the president is elected in a zoo or in a hotel’s “Rīdzene” room. This would strengthen the President's freedom of action and neutrality, personality and authority. Colleagues! I would like to thank the Group of the National Alliance and the Group SASKAN, because these groups responded to the call for debate on this issue. Both the Group's Unity opinion was surprising. A long-standing Unity has been one that takes care of openness and public participation. This time, however, the group refused to discuss. However, I believe that the solution proposed is well-thought and balanced, and this would be worth noting at least for further evaluation and opening discussions with the parliamentary committee. I therefore call for this initiative not to be missed at the root and for it to be put to the vote for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U3	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U4	When there are no ideas, then there is a need to amend the Constitution, right, Smilten? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten: “Pray for the neighbor!” ; dep. I.Rīna: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) Five months before the elections, the LRA, which I drew here in the Saeima, 3.7 years ago... Three years seven months... (Applause) Thank you. Thank you, yeah! Five months before the elections, you will come forward with a proposal to amend the Constitution on the election of the President of Latvia. What did you do for three years and seven months? That is the question. Why didn't you come a year ago with this question? Two years ago, three years ago? Three years and seven months ago? Why are you coming now? Maybe you should try... maybe when there's no idea... When there are no ideas, then it is proposed to change the Constitution or to set new holidays. That's what you're doing! And, and... ( Milestones.) 3,7 years! 3,7 years! I look at you and wonder if fair. Maybe try... If your idea is realising, then in principle both Ushakov and Lemberg could really be President of Latvia. Absolutely! ( Insight: ‘ Theme speaks! ’) ) Undoubtedly! I'd offer you an alternative, make a zoo law... The zoo bill for the opening of all cages on Sundays and all animals, both capitals and mice, all! - may walk through the entire zoo. Absolutely! This one's gonna go better. And do it now - before the elections! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “On the Constitution!” ) I propose that this draft law be rejected, because the amendment of the Satversme before the elections is unacceptable. It is an absolute populism to the highest extent. It comes from party walker Smilten. Then he sits in Unity, then he sits in LRA, then he is a member of such a party, then he is such. Most of all you are there if I understand... Well, it's not the leader, I understand! You're... It's not the leader.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U5	On the bill, Mr. Neighbour! Please, on the subject!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U6	I spent a year in this group, and for this draft law, I would really have been happy to hear before, and not five months before, the elections. We sat at one table. It was a matter of silence. There was silence! And now you come with this very populist... If there are no ideas, then just quietly sit your five months in the LRA and go home!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U7	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 31, against - 46, refraining from - 11. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of the Republic” submitted by Member Smiltēna, Ruka, Šics, Viļuma and Melgailis be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Municipalities, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U8	If there's nothing to say, Mr. Neighbours, it's better not to get on the platform! Because you're obviously not (Internext.) have read absolutely nothing of what has been presented and use this platform for yourself - pre-election of feathers for glowing, trying to offend former colleagues who have led you to be elected to the Saeima at all. But why is it necessary to amend the Constitution now - before the elections? Because it's too late afterwards. If we want to change the procedure for the election of the President of Latvia - even a minimum - and make the votes open, this must be done now, because we are going to elect the President of Latvia in a year's time. And there is a need for discussion in the Saeima, the commissions responsible. It takes some time for this to go through. Perhaps these questions would be transferred to the next Saeima, but to do something, it must be done right now. On the shooters, lembergs and potential other presidents. Colleagues, let us be realistic! The composition of the next Saeima will differ significantly, and I think many reasonable people still have a sense of uncertainty about what will be the centre of gravity of the next Saeima. Because it is this model that the vote is absolutely hidden, untraceable, opaque... Aware of history, the fact that decisions have been taken outside the Saeima - in the hotel “Rīdzene”, in the zoo -, a greater chance to get to President Artuss Nemina or Aivars Lembergs, or Usakov is exactly in that case ( Dep. A.Kamiņš: “I don’t have 40!” ), if we continue this dark political market and do not give the public an opportunity to look at the whole process and to follow where to participate. The public does not trust politicians and the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Because you change the parties all the time!” ) This support is also very small because of the populism Mr. Kaimiņš is driving, but above all because these decisions are opaque. Colleagues! If we want society to trust politicians, politicians first (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Then do not change the parties!” ) and to allow... and must trust the society itself. I call on you to support and start this discussion at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U9	I recall that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of Latvia” is not on the agenda. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “He confused! But he spoke without a computer, it’s good!” ) Ms Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Member of the European Parliament, has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U10	Dear colleagues, Indeed - we decide today not on an open procedure for the election of the President of Latvia, which the Unity has always supported (both in this parliamentary term and in the previous parliamentary term, we have repeatedly called on colleagues here, from the tribunal, to listen that it is the open election of the President of Latvia that would enable Latvia's specific democracy to regain public trust), but... Today we are offered such a very specific francenstein ( might even be called it!) . Let's say, yesterday, at the 9th May celebration in the Park of Victory, it should only have been possible to run around a page in which people could sign and record the most popular presidential candidate, and if there were 50 thousand signatures, then the parliament, as such, would have to elect the person as President of the State, who has the highest powers in foreign policy, the highest authority in the field of state security (that is, the head of the state armed forces)! What do you even offer us?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Do you really understand how dangerous it is? One thing is to talk about it here, from the pub, but the other is really to stir people up and say, “We want to involve you.” Well, it's not! Now we decide once - if there is an parliamentary term that will be able to decide - on a nation-elected president! This Saeima has realised that it is geopolitically dangerous; we remain with the President of State elected by Parliament. But please support the open election of the President of Latvia! Then we can talk about the involvement of society. The 50,000 people's signatures... they are neither in the public interest nor in the public interest. This is not a sensible decision at the moment in such a very dangerous safety situation. I call for this draft law and all other relevant draft laws to be rejected, because here too, in the platform, frankly, we have not heard anything new. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “We didn’t hear the arguments either!” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U11	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of the Republic” to the Legal Commission, as well as to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 45, abstaining - 12. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Smilten, Ruka, Šics, Viļuma and Melgailis be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “What, Smilten, are you not going to talk?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “; from the LRA Group: “He has already told you everything!” ) Are Members against the referral of the draft law to the Commission? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll” to the Legal Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 45, abstaining - 11. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Smiltēna, Ruka, Šics, Viļuma and Melgailis be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, as well as to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Votes, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative”. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and European Citizens’ Initiative” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, as well as to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 47, abstaining - 10. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Smiltēna, Ruka, Šics, Viļuma and Melgailis’ draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Central Electoral Commission” be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Central Electoral Commission” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 48, abstaining - 11. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “On the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of India on Air Transport” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on State Material Reserves” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Reports by the Bureau on the granting of leave. On 3 May this year, Ms Jelen Lazareva, Member of the European Parliament, granted unpaid leave. On 3 May this year, Ms Jelen Lazareva, Member of the European Parliament, granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received Ms Jeļena Lazareva's application to grant her unpaid leave on 3 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 9 and 10 May of this year, Mr Janis Klazds was granted unpaid leave. On 9 and 10 May of this year, Mr Janis Klazds was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Jānis Klazdas to grant him unpaid leave on 9 and 10 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Ivan Klementyev on 10 May of this year. For unpaid leave granted to Ivan Klementyev on 10 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Ivan Klementyev, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 10 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For the granting of unpaid leave to a Member, Intt Dalder, on 17 May this year. For the granting of unpaid leave to a Member, Intt Dalder, on 17 May this year. Honourable Members! We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting to give the Member Intt Dalder unpaid leave on 17 May this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. Consequently, leave is granted. Agenda item: Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The decision ‘On the appointment of the Anastasia Pasjuga as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U12	Good morning, honourable colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 8 May this year, the draft decision was considered “On the appointment of the Anastasia Pasjuga as a judge of a district (city) court”. To the candidates. Anastasis Pasjuga was born in 1985. She holds a Master's degree in law and a lawyer's qualification. The previous work experience of Anastasia Pasjuga is related to the case law (also working as an arbitrator). As a candidate for a position as a judge, she had been engaged in civil law, civil procedure, criminal law and criminal proceedings from May 2017 until now. A whole series of comments have been received about Anastasia Pasjugu. The President of the Northern District Court of Riga indicates in his reply that during her traineeship Anastasia Pasjuga has proved herself capable, purposeful and suitable for the position of judge, and that her appointment as a judge is to be supported. The Chair of the Board of Civil Cases of the Riga Regional Court indicates in his reply that the candidate for the position of a judge showed an initiative in preparing draft decisions. Drafts of the decision were prepared in good legal language, in accordance with the requirements of the Civil Procedure Law and the circumstances of the case. The tasks and tasks were carried out independently, and the projects were prepared with care and responsibility. In its opinion of the Chair of the Committee on Criminal Cases of Riga Regional Court, the Chair of the Committee on Criminal Cases concludes that Anastasija Pasjuga has the characteristics necessary for the performance of the duties of a judge. She is aware of the role and responsibility of a judge and is a suitable candidate for the duties of a judge. In his opinion, the Chairman of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court considers that Anastasija Pasjuga has gained a good understanding of the work of the judge and court and is a good candidate for the office of a judge. The Director of the Judicial System Monitoring Department in his report indicates that in general during the traineeship the knowledge of Anastasia Pasjuga has been evaluated well, and considers that a candidate for the position of a judge who has completed the traineeship, where significant experience of the work of the court will be gained, can successfully perform the duties of a judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee shall give a positive opinion for the appointment of the Anastasia Pasjuga as a judge of a district (city) court. In view of the above, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on the appointment of Anastasia Pasjugu as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of the Anastasia Pasjuga as a judge of the district (city) court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. Thank you. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U14	Good morning, colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax””. Before we start looking at this draft law, I would like to inform you that a letter has been received from the Ministry of Finance on the withdrawal of all three proposals. So (Applause) no proposals have been received for a second reading for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U15	Thank you. So all three proposals have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U16	I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U18	Dear colleagues, Within the Legal Commission, the draft law has been examined before the third reading. Two proposals have been received. The proposal is a editorial proposal by the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U20	And also 2 is a editorial proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U22	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U24	Good morning, colleagues! Third reading. Nine proposals, mainly of a technical nature. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U26	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U28	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U30	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U32	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U34	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U36	7. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U38	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U40	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U42	So all the proposals... Please support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U43	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Lāde” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass””, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U44	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima reviewed this draft law, hearing the invited persons, and found that the factual circumstances have not changed since the previous sitting of the Legal Commission. The Commission therefore decided to support the four proposals submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars, which are mainly precise. The Commission supported proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U46	Two more. - The Parliamentary Secretary's proposal was endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U48	3. There is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U50	And 4 is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, who was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U52	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Lade” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 4, it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U54	Colleagues! This draft law is as if in parallel to the amendments adopted in the Aircraft Passenger Data Processing Law, but it is related to the fact that the time limit for entry into force is set at the same time as the Administrative Violations Procedure Law enters into force, so that it is not that this law already exists, but there are no penalties yet. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U56	September 1st.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U57	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 1 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Customs Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks... The rapporteur has been changed. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U58	Good morning, honourable colleagues and respected colleagues! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined amendments to the Customs Law for the second reading. Eight proposals have been received. The proposal is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra, supported by the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U60	2. There is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U62	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U64	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has partially supported and included 5. - a Commission proposal supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U65	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U66	So 5 is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U67	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U68	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U70	7. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U72	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U74	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the amendments to the Customs Act at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Customs Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U76	The Commission is calling for proposals to be submitted by 15 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U77	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 May this year. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda for the Bureau meeting were tabled. On the agenda is the Bureau's report on the proposal for an own-initiative opinion. Members Jānis Dombrava, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Andris Buiķis, Inese Laizāne, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Einārs Cilinskis, Ringolds Balodis, Gaidis Berzins, Kārlis Krēsliņš, Romanas Nadiņš and Raivis Dzintars have submitted their own proposal – draft decision “Declaration of a crime of totalitarian regimes and a condemnation of totalitarian ideology”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) There are objections to Member Rubik. ( Milestones.) We must therefore decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. So, first of all, we must vote in favour of an amendment to the agenda of the Saeima sitting. So, honourable Members, we will now decide on the amendment to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and the inclusion of the own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Will the Member John Dombrava speak for? ‘ For’ - Member Jānis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U78	Dear Saeima! The Constitution of the Republic of Latvia provides that the people of Latvia honor their fighters for freedom, remember the victims of foreign powers, condemn both the Communist and Nazi totalitarian regimes and the crimes committed by them. I understand that it is not easy to express this view throughout the whole world. It is not easy for many people, both in Latvia and in the flank on the left, and at European level, to realise that the Communist regime has done the same damage, and even more damage to our people than the other totalitarian regime. This declaration by the Saeima came out as a response to the visit by President Jean-Claude Juncker of the European Commission last week, a visit to the 200th birthday of Karl Marx. At a time when Europe strongly condemns Hitler's crimes, Communist regime crimes and ideology are often justified, and I think it is unacceptable. Given that the Communist regimes have committed tens of millions of murders all over the world, and given that class struggles, proletariat dictatorships, the cause of mass murders are largely Carlis Marks and Engels, with their own works, with the "Communism manifesto" (Sitting Manager knocks out with a hammer.) , known more widely as the “Communist Party manifesto”, which in later years became the official manifesto of the Russian Social Democratic Workers ( Bolsheviks) Party and the official programme of action of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, there are still persons who believe that it is normal to carry out mass killings on behalf of socialism. I understand that action by the Latvian Parliament is often like a fight against windmills, because we are a small country that reminds us of the difficult fate of Eastern Europe, which has come to light when we have to deal with the damage caused by the two occupation regimes. Therefore, it is a call to adopt today's parliamentary declaration, which would include one very important point: “The state of Latvia condemns all actions of individuals, regardless of their position, who try to justify the crimes of totalitarian regimes and totalitarian ideologies.” I stress that the state of Latvia has accepted... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Several European national parliaments have accepted the condemnation of crimes and ideology committed by the Communist regime. The European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, has also adopted such a condemnation. Nevertheless, the President of the European Commission considered it acceptable to go on a holiday to mark the 200th birthday of Marks. In my opinion, this cannot be overlooked. Would it be the same if Juncker had gone to Hitler's birthday? I don't think so! I therefore call on the Saeima to act responsibly - to examine this declaration today and to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U79	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U80	There are 30 Communists here in the Saeima, Members, right? That's what I've counted. Recently, one commercial medium also showed it, adding members of the Communist Party to us. Yeah, it's true! There are at least 30 Communists in our Saeima. They're all looking at me right now. The first secretary of some of them has even started filming me. But! Dear National Union! I ask a rhetorical question: do you have nothing to do?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You really... There are no more important issues in the country?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I want to remind you that Lenin is dead! Lenin's dead. You can see him in the mausolea, near the Kremlin. Get a visa, go, look! Marx... Karl Marx has been dead for 200 years! He's birthday... He's really not alive anymore. Fredrich, too... Andrew Engels is also dead! What do you reason for a problem where there is no problem?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You don't have to do anything? There are no other issues in the country that need to be addressed? Declarations to write?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Are you no longer interested in pensioners? Those who left, the Diaspora, aren't they interested? Now you're writing a declaration about the Communists... Last May 9 was. Now, today, just on hot coal - go! Is that the whole trash that was... in the Park of Victory? I don't know if it's taken. Maybe it's taken. I think Ushak has taken it. But! You are currently dealing with things that are not topical! You are fueling hatred between this group and their group as much as possible. Why are you fueling it now? All this has been! So why do you fuel that racial hatred all the time?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Stop doing this! Those people are dead, those ideologists are dead! As elected Members, you need to do more than accept the declaration that has been made since 2006... What have you been doing for 12 years? You should have done that, in 2007, go and this declaration... go and then sign. I support the whole idea: yes, WE have been occupied, not annexed. Yes, Latvia has been occupied. Yes, one language of the country. Yes, Latvian! But stop it! It was then. It's been, how many years? 75! So what do you fuel each one of your own locomotives? ( FROM a faction: “Why are you looking at us? We don’t fuel anything!” ) Dude, you were looking for just yesterday! You look at your face! (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U81	Don't talk to the grass! Continue the debate. (Applause) Thank you. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision on "Declaration of the condemnation of the crime of totalitarian regimes and of the justification of totalitarian ideology"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 15, for - 30, for - 32. The agenda has therefore not been amended. Kleinberga, Smiltēns, Viļums, Krūmiņš and Melgalis are asking Members to change the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U82	It is clear from today's debate that many do not read what colleagues submit to the draft laws. Mr. Matīss, perhaps also. — The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer. you will pay attention to those things. But here's a chance. We've reduced our morning... the original offer up to one amendment. We would like to state that the President of Latvia is elected by an open vote, with a majority of not less than 51 members of the Saeima. The public has the right to know how their elected Members act: those whom they have elected and whom they pay for these decisions. And that is why I call on you, including on the one hand, which did not at all respond to the initiative to discuss our initial offer this morning - to follow what Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere also said: 'yes' to the public vote. I call for this to be done in the name of the Saeima's self-esteem and also in honour, so that the next President of Latvia is elected in an open, clear, transparent vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U83	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U84	The first question today was that, if there is no idea, the Constitution should be amended. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smiltene: “As a parrot one and the same!” ) The desired situation for the election of the President, in my opinion, in Latvia... I look at young people because it's the only voice of reason in this room and... Hello, young people! It is so that the order of election of the President in Latvia would be that... In my opinion, there must be an open presidential election in the Saeima, and Members must vote openly. At the moment, this group has announced that it would like to have 51 votes... Well, we can't -- and you young people know... we cannot be proud of our last presidents. We can't really do that! Neither Mr. Vējonis can be proud, nor Mr. Berzine can be proud. We're not-wa-ram! Unfortunately, unfortunately. Both of them with English are excellent, don't they... And this is happening here in the Saeima - secret votes and some kind of trade. And it is known to all, but no one is talking about it. Just as it is not talking about the way sausages are made in the sausage factory. They're just making. It would be the preferred expression that two thirds of the Saeima's Members vote in favour of the President rather than 51 out of 100. The desired expression would be that local leaders would also be able to take part in the vote if the President were not elected in the first vote, as is the case in Estonia. That would be the preferred expression, because only then will the best be able to withstand this marathon and the race to break. And then there will be no one who suddenly becomes President of Latvia, as he was, say, with Berzins: no one knew him, no one at all... What about... Is that so? And suddenly he's the President of Latvia, he's your country's face, and you're ashamed of the whole face. That's what I was. Because this proposal... It's like Frankenstein, it's to be thrown away. ( Internouncing call.) 51 votes are too little! There must be two thirds of the Saeima to support the election of the President of Latvia so that there is no more such wedding that has taken place in the presidential elections so far. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U85	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 7, refraining - 43. The agenda of the sitting has therefore not been amended. The agenda of the sitting will be examined further. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U86	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Law on Public Procurement. These amendments were submitted several months ago by the Association of the Regions of Latvia. The nature of the draft law is that we supplement Article 9, paragraph 8.1, as follows: ‘If the tender for a specific public works contract, public supply contract or public service contract exceeds 50 per cent of the initial contract price, the contracting entity shall reject the tender’. Moreover, Article 53 ‘Inexpensively cheap or costly tender’ is supplemented in the same way: ‘If... exceeds 50 per cent of the initial contract price, the contracting entity shall reject the tender’. We have discussed this in the Commission. The Commission unanimously supported the further progress of these amendments. There are things that should be clarified, but the conceptual commission supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U87	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U88	Colleagues! In order for the role of the rapporteur to be properly respected and I can also express my personal views, I would like to ask one question. Five million - that's a lot or a little? Five million euros? How much? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Why?” ) Accurately! Why? Yeah? Colleagues, this is a little more than in the old Latvenergo's missing three million case, but, of course, it is an absolute detail than the OIC's commitment of several billion euros. Perhaps this is why uneconomic procurement no longer deserves such attention from the head of government and ministers. They are just, but there is no notice. Five million, of course, are almost three times more than the EUR nearly two million that has just been found and allocated to the Ministry led by Mrs Čakša so that they can count those who do not have access to healthcare. This is twice as much as the national budget sub-programme ‘05.12.00’, i.e. ‘National research programmes’. This year, the plan is two million and 536 thousand. And by this we provide a knowledge base for the transformation of the economy to have a higher added value. And, by the way, five million - this is the budget of one small municipality, from which the entire social block, including schools, is maintained. Why am I telling you all this? We are seeing very well that in the area of procurement, we are back in good times. The State Joint Stock Company “The State Roads of Latvia” had a scandal because it was wasted uneconomically, I would say only EUR five million; there the cheapest price was not approved, but a five million more expensive service was approved. Now, the government... All coalition parties in the government voted in favour of allocating two million euros to the Ministry of Health in order to build a system that I dive about, to be honest, all IT experts, because its costs may have been increased. ( A. Barch’s intermediate call.) Therefore, in order to try to limit over-cost procurement (as in the recent scandal with the state public limited liability company “The State Roads of Latvia”) and try to prevent waste of money, the Commission has supported the amendments to the Public Procurement Law submitted by the Association of the Regions of Latvia, and I call for them to be supported here at the Saeima sitting to improve them and really to ensure that taxpayers' money is used fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U89	Thank you. I closed the debate. So the Commission's call is to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U90	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U91	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -69, against -no, abstain - 13. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U92	Colleagues, we invite you to submit your proposals by 25 May this year. So, two weeks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U93	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 May this year. On the agenda - examination of the notification. Notice on administratively punished Members for the period from 8 January 2018 to 9 April 2018. Notice on administratively punished Members for the period from 8 January 2018 to 9 April 2018. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U94	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, Based on Paragraph 5 of Paragraph 1 of Article 179 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application shall provide information on administratively punished Members (according to the Data of the Penal Register) during the period from 8 January to 9 April 2018. During the stated period, Aldis Adamovičs has been held responsible for the administration. A decision has been taken in accordance with Section 149.4 (Failure of General Traffic Rules) of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia in the Order Police Division of the State Police Regional Administration of Latgale Region. Suitable warning. The Decision entered into force on 29 January. Int Dalder. The 1st part of the Patrol Police Unit's Traffic Monitoring has been decided on the seventh part of Section 149.8 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (non-compliance with speed, distance and interval of travel) of the State Police Administration of Kurzeme Region Police Office. A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 16 February. Roman Miloslavski. A decision has been taken on the twelveth part of Section 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code by the Administration of Zemgale Region of the State Police. A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 19 March. Arvīd Platoper. On the 6th of the Road Police Battalion of the Patrol Police Administration of the State Police Riga Region Administration, a decision was taken following the fourth paragraph of Article 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (non-compliance with speed, distance and interval). Suitable warning. The Decision entered into force on 15 March. Sergey Potakin. The decision of the State Police in Riga Regional Authority has been taken following the twelfth part of Section 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (Failure to Travel Speed, Distance and Interval). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 15 February. Artie Rasmann. The decision has been taken in the administration of Latgale Region after the sixth part of Section 149.8 (Failure to driving speed, distance and interval), Section 149.25 (Failure to register and use of vehicle signs) and Section 149.4 (Failure to apply general road traffic rules) of Section 149.4 (Failure to comply with general road traffic rules). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 22 January. Ivan Ribakov. On the 5th of the Road Police Battalion of the Patrol Police Administration of the State Police Riga Region Administration, a decision was taken following the second paragraph of Article 149.17 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (infringement of Rules for the Use of External Lighting Devices). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 5 March. John Ruck. The decision of the State Police in Riga Regional Administration has been taken following the second paragraph of Section 149.16 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (Compliance of Vehicle Drivers in Special Cases) and Section 149.6 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (Impliance of Driving and Driving Change Rules). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 23 February. Andris Siliņš. On the 6th of the Road Police Battalion of the Patrol Police Administration of the State Police Riga Region Administration, a decision was taken following the fourth paragraph of Article 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (non-compliance with speed, distance and interval). Suitable warning. The Decision entered into force on 27 March. Jānis Trupovnieks. A decision has been taken in the administration of the State Police Vidzeme Region after the fourth part of Section 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (Failure to Drive Speed, Distance and Interval). Suitable warning. The Decision entered into force on 18 January. John Urbanovich. A decision has been taken on Article 166.27 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (not to submit a declaration of a State official) in the Department of Tax Administration of the State Revenue Service. A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 12 March. Arvīd Platoper. On the 7th of 7th of the Road Police Battalion of the Patrol Police Administration of the State Police Riga Region Administration, a decision was taken following the 12th part of Section 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (Failure to Drive Speed, Distance and Interval). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 10 April. Dear colleagues, Practically all Members have violated the rules of the road, some Members have not already been mentioned for the first time. I would like to remind you that it is an election year, and you hardly need such advertising in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U95	Thank you. We have heard the announcement. Honourable Members! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. We have received Members' questions - three questions - and all of them Members want to motivate. Members Krumiņš, Šimfas, Ruks, Šics and Viļums submitted the question “On the timetable for teachers’ pay”. The word for motivation to the Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U96	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Order No.17 of the Cabinet of Ministers of 15 January 2018 provides for a timetable for the increase in the remuneration of teachers. If this... In the previous year, an additional 16 million were needed, which also include the unfortunate four million withdrawn from the abolition of boarding schools, then for the following year, 25 million were needed to cover this increase from EUR 680 to EUR 710. Where to take this money is, in principle, unclear, because, as we all see, the education reforms related to the reorganisation of the school network are unsuccessful, unsuccessful and cannot get the money there. So that money will have to be taken away. We met with Uldis Augulis and asked him about the cooperation with Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis. In principle, they cannot find a common denominator: one does not know which roads to repair, because the other does not know what schools to reform. So, sorry... It is not known how this will end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U97	Thank you. The question is referred to the Minister of Education and Science for a reply. Members Zarins, Ribakovs, Adamsons, Urbanovičs and Arthur Rubiks submitted the question “On the sustainability of the social system”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U98	Hello, colleagues! It was in those ancient times - even before the OIC saga - when we asked the Minister for Welfare how the sustainability of their social budget is then really there. You remember, he said publicly that there might be problems. The Minister for Welfare was also unable to provide us with any calculations that we asked him and that could prove or deny the claims he had made. Then we turned to the Finance Minister and asked her to give us these calculations so that we could make sure who was right then. Because, as you can see, one minister said there could be problems with the social budget, while the other said that everything was fine. It turned out that the Minister of Finance could not give us these calculations either. Then we now turn to the Prime Minister and hope that the Prime Minister will be able to ensure that his government, which is working as a single team, can finally give us these uniform calculations, from which we will finally be clear: there is a sustainable social budget or there is no sustainable social budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U99	Thank you. We refer the question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis for a reply. Members Zarins, Ribakovs, Adamsons, Urbanovičs and Arthur Rubiks submitted the question “On the sustainability of the pension system”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U100	There is a similar system with pensions. Evil tongues tell us we won't have a pension. We want to make sure that this is not the case and to reassure the public that the government has ensured that - to the policy that is being pursued now, to the tax policy that has been changed, to the demographic situation that you have created, to the migration that is currently in place, and to the current economic indicators or data! - there will be pensions for those who pay the tax. And we very much hope that the Ministry of Welfare, which was unable to make such calculations, and also the Ministry of Finance, which was unable to make such calculations, and which was also unable to deny that... The Ministry of Welfare seemed to have... failure also to deny that the data on the pension system provided at the time are false, inadequate, inappropriate to the real situation, demographics, migration, economic development. We hope that we will finally be able to give real figures, and that is why we turn to the Prime Minister again. We hope he will do it. If he cannot, then we will have to “work out” just as it was with OIC.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U101	The question is referred to the Prime Minister for a reply. Dear colleagues, Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U102	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The Commission's meeting today is 12.30 at our committee's premises. Please all attend.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U103	Name for the statement to Member Janis Vucanas.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U104	Honourable Members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! The Commission will meet at 10.20 a.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U105	Name for the statement to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U106	Members of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please meet the Egyptian parliamentary groups at 10.30 a.m. on the committee's premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U107	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U108	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Inese Iztrauta... Yes, John Crag, Ivan Clementyev, Richard Coll, Armands Krauze, Atis Lejiņš... Yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere... is, Roman Mežeckis, Veiko Spolitis, Jānis Trupovnieks and Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-10-PT12-480-U109	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
