ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Saeima! Good morning, Prime Minister. Ministers! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 22 February 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission is asking for amendments to the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” (No 1109/Lp12) until 9 March 2018. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda of the meeting the draft decision on the change of the committee responsible to the draft law on Public Transport Services. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Judin, Abu Meri, Spolitis, Schulz and Matīss are asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U2	Dear colleagues, The Group’s Unity prepared a proposal for an amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law. We have discussed the proposal in question, we have tried to explain to colleagues, but, as I see, not everyone understands the substance of the proposal, and some of our colleagues are sceptical about whether such an amendment is possible at all. Let's take a look at Section 375 of the Criminal Procedure Law! The researchers can also now get acquainted with the criminal justice materials after the end of the process. Thus, lawyers have the possibility to do so under certain conditions. Our proposal is to extend the range of people who can get acquainted with the materials when the process is over. In particular, we provide for the possibility for journalists to ask the Chief of Police or KNAB to allow access to criminal proceedings after the proceedings have been terminated, in the interest of the public. If such authorisation is obtained, the person will be warned of the failure to disclose the information but will be able to investigate the information. Go on. Considering that there is a public interest, the person will also be able to request permission to publish certain materials if necessary and in accordance with the public interest. The Head of the investigating authority will assess and take a decision. In case of refusal, this will be an opportunity to appeal to the Prosecutor General. In particular, we are proposing a general framework. We are not talking about individual processes, and we think this is very important. Colleagues! Let's see what's going on with our processes, our criminals! At first there are loud statements of detentions, shakings, but after a while we see that things have been stopped, nothing is happening. Our proposal has been drawn up in the context of the ‘Ride negotiations’. We now have another criminal law. And what happens in two, three, or four years? Will it not happen again that the process will be terminated and no one really can understand who did not work the way he had to? At the moment, the problem of criminal proceedings is as follows: the drivers of the procedure work with materials, and if they hand over to the court, then the public learns something, but if the case is closed, the public can actually not know anything. We want to create a new system. It is important that process leaders understand and understand that, after the proceedings have been terminated or referred to court, the public becomes aware of the facts in the course of the proceedings. But if the case is closed or if, for example, the prosecutor agrees on some punishment with the accused, journalists will have the opportunity to get acquainted with the information and the public will be informed again. In particular, this proposal will create a new order: the drivers of the process will be motivated to work and they will not be able to hide important information when they say it is secret. I understand that some people think it is bad, it is unacceptable and that these secrets are more important. But, colleagues, there is a public interest, and to ignore it is no foundation! We offer a very balanced, balanced solution, namely that we expect the head of the investigating authority to decide whether or not to allow access to material. We are not invited to send things to libraries for everyone to read. But if a person who wants to get acquainted with the case-file and inform the public can convince the head of the investigating authority if he has arguments, it is important for us to provide for the possibility of transferring the information concerned to the public. There are several journalists working in the family. Let us imagine that in time, for example, Mr. Sergeant will no longer work in the Saeima, but he will be a journalist. And he's gonna want to know what's going on with the Rimšēvičs case. I think it's only logical that he's going to go and explore. I believe that, in such cases, it is important for there to be a mechanism to address this issue. Please support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U3	Thank you. Are Members opposed to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Judins, Abu Meri, Spolitis, Šulcs and Matīss are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Law on Public Procedure of Criminal Procedure No 16870000911”. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U4	Colleagues! I have just told you about our proposal to establish a general framework on the issue of access to criminal material. Now there is a second draft law, and it provides for the publication of documents in the "Rīņe" criminal case. In my opinion, our proposal is concrete and enforceable. In particular, we are talking about the 'Ride negotiations'. We do not offer 117 volumes to digitize and send to the library. It is only about negotiations, namely information that was declassified and transferred from the operational investigation file to criminal proceedings. Such information is in the hands of the process drivers; it is already digitised. And it is very important that this information is available. The truth is, I see, a certain amount of activity... Yes, the Association of the Regions of Latvia submitted a draft law providing for the publication of 117 volumes. We made a proposal that provides for a concrete and enforceable... providing for more precise regulation. In particular, we are only offering to talk about "Ride Talks"; this is important because there is no point in spending time and resources on publishing information that is not important to society. That is why I am asking for support for this draft law, and within the Legal Commission we will be able to deal with the issue by working on two projects. I now ask you to put this item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U5	Mr. Edvards Smilten has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U6	Colleagues! We have already had a debate on this issue, and the Latvian Association of Regions has tabled such a draft law. The Saeima has voted and has already supported such a draft law on the publication of the case-file of the oligarch negotiations and on the full publication of these negotiations - and even without censorship. And we to the Legal Commission... It's been a few weeks, actually a long time has passed... We wrote a letter to the Legal Commission (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Who wrote?” ) explaining, with a request, why this draft law is not currently being taken forward. And these arguments are very simple: the Legal Commission is overloaded, there are many draft laws, and therefore it cannot be included. ( Independence: “Read the letter to the end! ” ) Mr Judina, instead of offering to take part in this process by submitting proposals, improving the existing draft law and, as a member of the Legal Commission, making progress in the Legal Commission at all, submits another draft law to put further pressure on the Legal Commission, which has too many draft laws that cannot move forward. I call on Mr Judina to make sure that the Legal Commission is finally moving on and dealing with this issue. We set a deadline for the submission of proposals for this draft law, we submit proposals and we work with one draft law. You can submit a second. I assume that the National Association could prepare another third. I think Mr Brigmanis and the ZZS have another view and vision about it and another fourth draft law. In this way, we will make this thing absurd! The public wants to expect these negotiations to be fully public. The draft law has been submitted. Please, please! Keep moving! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Violums: “Right!” ) Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U7	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on the procedure for publishing materials in criminal procedure No. 16870000911” to be included on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 26, for - 2. The agenda of the sitting has been amended and the draft law has been included on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - Annual report by Prime Minister Māra Kučinskas The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. Name to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U8	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, The events of recent days have had a significant impact on the agenda of many officials, the media and society. Many issues of great importance to the country have slipped into the shadow. They will not stay there long, they will return because the government's action plan is still a document setting out clear guidelines for work that cannot be withdrawn. The electoral year of the Saeima awakens many, so we find out every day about proposals to remove it or any other minister or everyone at once. We are reading about panic attacks that have also hit very experienced parliamentary politicians. I will cause them disappointment - despite all Latvia is developing and there is no reason to believe that its development will stop. Yes, problems in the Latvian financial sector have a negative impact on our country's reputation, but they do not threaten the stability of the banking system. The statements made by some officials online and in recordings give a false impression that no one is able to identify and evaluate risks in the country. It's not! The law enforcement authorities do their work, the Bank of Latvia and the financial supervisor do their own. It makes no sense to mix the detention of officials together with the problems of private commercial banks, especially if they are unrelated cases. Once again, I stress that all the security authorities in Latvia work with a great awareness of their responsibilities and responsibilities. The same applies to the Financial and Capital Market Commission and the Bank of Latvia. Of course, at the moment, many things relating to the financial system are once again in the interests of parties represented by the Saeima and also elsewhere. There are certainly problems requiring solutions, and the government is ready to talk about them, but it is certainly not a one-day issue. Many of you know that in the recent past, banks used to fall like curses from the edge of the roof. Therefore, the roof should be cleaned regularly. Security is created by laws that are accessible and understandable to all without exception. Therefore, carefully, predictable and without panic, we can all tackle these problems together, and that is what Latvian society and our allies expect of us. Honourable Members! Now is the time to return to the report on what the government has done and what it has done. For the economy. Let me say very modestly that many things have worked. After a few years of stagnating, the Latvian economy started to grow rapidly, and the preliminary growth in gross domestic product reached 4.5 percent in 2017, thus exceeding the highest growth rate that Latvia achieved in 2007. Unlike this year of the crisis, this time the Latvian economy is providing macro-economic stability and there are no signs of well-known overheating of the economy. Experts sometimes learn about the rapid rise in wages, which goes beyond productivity gains, and this is indeed a challenge with strong political content, as it is most directly linked to attracting labour from other countries. There are certainly different solutions available, but all of them must be based on an agreement between the coalition partners. This applies both to this government and to what will be set up after the next elections. Whatever the case, we must achieve GDP growth of 4.5 per cent, better at five per cent over several years. We are not pressing 'gas on the floor', we want to get out of the group of those who are left behind and draw close to those who are in the middle of the Union, so the average level of the European Union. This is a goal for at least several years, and it is fully in line with the interests of Latvia's state and nation. This is the only way through which we would promote repatriation and stimulate regional development. I certainly do not agree with the often expressed view that all development should be concentrated in Riga and its surroundings, making it like a fist that is subject to the rest of Latvia, because it is the most competitive development model. Illustratingly, Riga must be a welcome hand, not a fist. It must be friendly to all regions of Latvia, which is the main source of labour for thousands of companies working in Riga and Pierīga. This is important because in 2017, after a long pause, the amount of investment has increased significantly, and the government's task is to promote its smooth flow to development centres throughout Latvia. Unemployment in Latvia has decreased to the lowest statistical level of 8.5 percent. However, this does not mean that all reserves have been exhausted. Instruments for re-entering the labour market should continue to be developed for people whose education and previous work experience do not meet the requirements of today's labour market. Neither should we forget those who have not registered as unemployed, but have developed their own survival model - either have left Latvia or are working in the shadow economy. Once again, I would like to thank the Saeima for supporting tax reform. There are already signs that Latvia has become interesting to potential investors. Let us patiently look at and analyse the investment situation. It is important to understand what are the obstacles that make potential investors reluctant. As I mentioned last year, these are often minor things that we can prevent without major financial investments or changes to laws. Therefore, I am pleased with the readiness of the State Revenue Service to start customer service in English also in the coming years. It will be a good incentive for investors who are active in the medium and small business. I would remind you of the major pillars of the tax reform: raising minimum wages; introducing progressive income tax; introducing a zero corporate tax rate if money is invested in development. The slogan of tax reform is simple: justice and development. We are on this path, and I am grateful to all coalition partners who have shown that party interests can be reconciled with national development goals and the demands of society. Colleagues! There are a number of chapters in the economic section of the government report that are very informative, so I will not delay them, because the text of the report is available to you. Just a few words about combating the shadow economy. It is a politically sensitive subject, and the events of the last few weeks show this once again. Despite various sceptical ideas, the plan of measures to combat the shadow economy works, it is being improved and pressure on this invisible business sector will not decrease. The movement of money through various accounts remains increasingly transparent around the world and we are not going to lag behind. I know that many are dissatisfied with questionnaires where bank customers have to answer various questions that also concern the origin of money. It does not seem right to me that each bank develops this questionnaire independently and also independently evaluates its content after filling in. This should be done either by the Ministry of Finance or by the Association of Commercial Banks of Latvia in cooperation with the Ministry. The aim is clear: everything must be simple and transparent. The trust of clients, taxpayers, banks and the revenue service is equally important. It's about internal and external security. It is often reported that this year Latvia's defence budget has reached the informal minimum of NATO member states, or two per cent of the country's gross domestic product. It's a lot of money and a lot of responsibility. The Ministry of Defence plans to make various purchases, because they are very important for strengthening our defence capabilities. I hope that local entrepreneurs will also be able to participate in these purchases independently or in cooperation with foreign partners. I know that this is already planned, so we are left to wish our entrepreneurs well. There is also much to be done in the area of internal security. Statistics show that the number of criminal offences has decreased; this clearly shows the effectiveness of the internal security services. Last year the demarcation of the Latvian-Russian border was completed, and now we can actively continue construction of the border infrastructure. The same statistics show that the illegal crossing of the eastern border has increased considerably, so it is all the more important to strengthen this border. These are costs, but increasing illegal migration can cost much more - and not only in money. Honourable Members! Two more major reforms, which are still on the government's agenda and will not disappear from it for years. These are healthcare and education systems. The government report contains enough information on what has been done and what is planned in these sectors, so a little bit about reform policy or ideology. There is once again a question of social justice. We all know that inequality, including poverty, is one of the biggest problems in Latvia, which we often have been reminded of by various international organisations in which we participate. Reforms of the healthcare and education system aim to increase social justice. There are fewer and fewer reliable arguments to keep half-empty schools in many places in Latvia. The country is changing, there is a new settlement structure that is significantly different from that which existed 70 or 30 years ago. Thus, there is also a need to change the national infrastructure most directly affected by the school network. We need to finance those schools that are able to bring together more students and, above all, to provide them with high-quality education. Once again, in the process of optimising the school network, the initiative of municipalities and the ability to cooperate with each other are vitally important. It would also be grateful to the Members of the Saeima, who would be actively involved in this process and take advantage of their authority when speaking to their own district. There have also been major changes in the healthcare system last year. Let me just mention a few. Increased funding for the sector is essential and salaries for healthcare workers will be raised this year. I would like to emphasise that this increase in wages must be fair, not forgetting the lower-paid workers in the system. The often criticised eHealth system continues to develop. It must definitely be improved, but there will be no return. eHealth makes the flow of information and finance clear, where the patient will be the main beneficiary. Industry professionals are invited to make their proposals for improving the system. All state and municipal paid services must be available to all our citizens everywhere in Latvia, and they must be of the same quality. I know that this is an easy to criticise slogan, but it is also a goal to which we are slowly moving. The louder it will be today, the harder it will be to give up tomorrow or tomorrow. And by the end. We celebrate Latvia's centenary birthday this year. I am convinced that this is our joint celebration even if our political views are diametrically opposite. I think we can agree that this is a joint holiday for our very different voters. It plays an important role in elections and holidays. Learn to be together, not to give up on your background, your mother tongue, your values, and your beliefs! That's it. The family, perhaps the pre-election, is at your disposal. Thank you to all those who believed and supported, thank you to those who do not yet believe and support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U9	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Let us start a debate. On behalf of the Group of the Regions of Latvia - Member Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U10	Please combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U11	Do Members have reservations if both times of debate are combined? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Yes!” ) Please call us! Let us vote in favour of Ms. Nelly Kleinberg being able to bring together the two times of the debate! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Thank you. It is a decision to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U12	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, High Prime Minister! Ministers! Reading your report seems to be all right in Latvia: the country develops in all sectors and in all possible ways. But when we lift our eyes from paper, leave Riga or go to the streets... However, I think that we live in two different worlds. Public dissatisfied with the work of the government is growing and recently we see scandals affecting the sector by sector - health, energy, the economy, finance, the banking sector. This report is, of course, an important formality, but the real evaluators of the work of the government are the people of Latvia. And what's their score? They're continuing to leave this country - they're leaving. And most often it's that it doesn't return again. Unfortunately, the work of our government cannot be described differently than as a moderate embarrassment. For years, the same issues are taking place, such as e-health, which invests millions, but only applies to the issuing of sick leave and prescriptions; the modernisation of passenger trains, which is still similar to a distant dream, as procurement deadlines are extended and extended; the fight against the shadow economy, which still exists and does not decrease. And where else is the road? We are making prisons for schools and hospitals, but getting to a school and a hospital in another place is, in fact, impossible. The Prime Minister's report highlights that in order to promote Latvia's economic growth, reduce income inequality and increase tax revenues, medium-term development of tax policy was identified as one of the priorities of the government. The so-called tax reform was adopted, which unfortunately cannot be called a reform. Rather, it would be a tax redistribution or restructuring. Undoubtedly, this document of the Ministry of Finance also contains some good things, such as tax progress. In some cases, however, a nonnegligible minimum has been reduced for a whole group of people who are both family and large children. It is good that there is an increase in excise duty on alcohol and cigarettes, but an increase in it on fuel leads to an increase in prices for goods and services. And here we are faced with a situation where people's income remains at around the level of the past, while expenditure is increasing. And it reduces the money available to people; it can weaken their willingness to pay taxes, and that could lead to an increase in the shadow economy. Consequently, the Ministry of Finance's expectations and plans for budget revenue may also fail; this will have a corresponding impact on the ability to cover the budgetary commitments undertaken by that government. On the labour market, one thing needs to be clearly understood: Latvia is in the face of the labour market crisis. Exit of the population, lack of skilled labour, on average low wages. Now why should people stay here in Latvia? In his report, the Prime Minister points out the development of entrepreneurship, the increase in the number of new businesses. But how many entrepreneurs register their business in Estonia and Lithuania, because there is a more orderly tax system there, unlike Latvia? We hear from businessmen that there are not few. An example is SIA “Liepkalni”, which moved part of its activities to Estonia. Such a decision is justified by (I quote) “a total failure of certain state institutions to listen to “Liepkalna” as a local Latvian businessman’s opinion and as a permanent burden on the business activities of certain state institutions”. There is no small number of companies that are motivated by the instability, inconsistency and unpredictability of Latvian tax policy. There are people in Latvia who would like to develop their small business, but they simply cannot, because it has not created favorable conditions. We cannot promote capacity in the economy if the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance are unable to provide businesses with clear rules of the game and a clearly defined course of action for at least 5-10 years ahead. There are no encouraging forecasts for the future either. Poor demographic indicators, eviction of the population - for Latvia this is threatened with labour shortages. And in fact, they're no longer a threat, but a reality. And here we should talk about education reforms that are currently focused on reducing the number of schools; it is perhaps not wrong, but more attention should be paid to encouraging young people to choose the professions that are and will be required in Latvia in the future. We can, of course, talk about major investment projects - rail electrification, Rail Baltic, Inčukalns gas storage - as well as many others. Undoubtedly, these are large and important projects, but if we look at them, none of them has met without scandal, public condemnation and financing problems. Each of these projects has been discredited. If we are talking about the internal state infrastructure - we as a party association representing the people of the regions are better than anyone else is seeing unequal development between the regions of Latvia. Infrastructure is the internal circulation of the country, but in Latvia it is slow and with major disruptions, and it does not contribute to entrepreneurship and the capacity of regions to develop. This report raises more questions than answers what the government has done over the last two years. The events in recent weeks have clearly shown us the result of the government's work. Conclusion: the banking sector is not properly supervised. All this undermines our public finances. And it will probably have an impact on Latvian credit ratings; it will make it more difficult to refinance external debt, the competitiveness of our entrepreneurs and the inflow of investment in Latvia. Latvia is currently in a crisis situation which requires coordinated and mutually agreed government action and precise communication - and not only at our national level, but also at international level. At the moment it is that each institution expresses its opinion, each ministry - its own opinion, and also the Prime Minister - its own opinion. And it looks like the government doesn't even know what to do. I would like to remind you that the reputation of the whole country, not of a particular minister or of a particular ministry, is placed under a blow. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U14	Mr. Kučinski! Remember these words: “After a few moments we will experience the year at which we will celebrate the centenary of Latvia’s birthday. I'm sure we're going to have an excellent year!' ( Interface: “There’s already! ” ) It's too, isn't it, Mr. Zarins?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The beginning of the great year is very promising. It's only been a month and a half. The year began with a wonderful fuel price because taxes were being raised significantly. It was a gift to Latvia's inhabitants during the centenary of the country, like "vitamins for the economy" - its finance minister says in his advertising circle, which is already half a year ago, as a paid-for advertising by the Ministry of Finance, is waiting for us all every morning to open social networks. ( Insight: “Go to Liepaja! Or Ventspils!’ ) Do you think it is right for any family outside Riga - to make them more expensive to move? We are making reforms... We close schools and hospitals and tell them: now you have to go more! But the real, practical policy is moving towards the fact that we are making these services more expensive for people - by the way, it is precisely in the regions, because there people need to use cars the most. The year began with a shock on electricity bills because, as it turns out, the reduction in bills promised is something else: it is a simple reallocation of costs between groups of society, from one pocket to another. It turns out that in order to significantly reduce electricity bills for a few large, energy-intensive production companies, electricity bills are significantly increased for small and medium-sized businesses, including those doing seasonal work. Is it fair that a farmer receives an invoice of EUR 1450 instead of EUR 700 in January? Is that fair: to make a person pay for what he has not consumed? There is another point in the bills, which is very little to talk about, namely support for gas cogeneration - fossil resources. Is it fair that residents of all other regions in Latvia subsidize the heat costs of the residents of Riga? This is at the expense of the regions. You have to pay for unearned and unearned money. The State Revenue Service warns citizens that they can remain in debt. Should every citizen have a consultant at the moment? On the roads. Now it is very lucky, because everything is frozen and the ice promises even more in the coming week. But what will happen when it melts? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Then there will be a thaw!” ) In the long term, will this simply be a problem for the next government? Because the EU funds are falling considerably in 2019. We have 150 million at the moment, there will be a cape from it. How will people take their children to school? How will they go to work, and how will medical doctors go to the patients in good time? The government is characterised by a very interesting working method. In expensive advertising, tax release, tax reduction are preached to everyone, but in reality - how much it took off in one place, put it in a different way and in another place. The people of Latvia are not interested in how big the tax rates are, what gifts are given to them as centenary gifts or vitamins. They're interested in how much money they're left in their wallet after all payments have been made. The value of Latvian citizens is also the time that they can devote to their work and family. If a person may have to spend his time studying the nuances of the tax system because of fear, then I think that is injustice. The scale of what will be of benefit to citizens in the country is not only tax interest rates to be able to publish discounts, but also the time taken to steal red tape and complicated laws and systems and public services that they do not receive. For example, in regions people regularly travel on bad roads and look forward to what will happen when the thaw rises. I think... Please, two more minutes here.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U15	Do Members have reservations if both speaking times are combined? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Yes!” ) Please call us! Let us vote to allow Member Edward Smilten to bring together the two times of the debate! Please vote mode! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 2, for - 2, for - 2. Decision adopted. You have the opportunity to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U16	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to talk about the most interesting section in my view. I hope that all of you have read this report, which we are debating at the moment. I call on you to read as an anecdot point 1.9 of the report - Targeted activation of the financial and capital market sector: "Sustainable stability, security and international competitiveness, innovative access to financial services and strengthening of Latvia's position as a regional financial services centre are defined as the most important directions for the development of the financial sector. These principles were included in the financial sector development plan [...], and implementation started in 2017, including the introduction of a regulatory sandbox solution. In 2017, while developing the security of the financial sector, the second evaluation of the proceeds of crime and terrorist financing risks was developed, as well as the government approved a plan of measures to mitigate the identified risks. At the same time, regulation has been improved to prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing, and to promote compliance of Latvian credit institutions with international standards for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing....” What is the result? Do you not think it is an anecdotes when you read this text? At the moment, we have a balance: 200 million claims against Latvia in Washington arbitration, shameful global advertising of Latvia in all the largest media in the world, devastating influence on reputation - exact and public insults of our partner country in money laundering and corruption. And - the head of the Latvian financial system has fallen! The true situation and the government's capacity were demonstrated by a two-day vacuum in the information space - there was no information from officials about the scandal in the financial sector. Many people in Latvia really had a feeling of fear. Where is our Prime Minister? Where are the top officials of the country? What's going on - can anyone explain? And what happens if Latvia finds itself in a more serious crisis situation in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U17	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Do Members have reservations if both times of debate are combined? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U18	Thank you, dear colleagues. Dear Mr. Kučinski! Please don't leave! A year ago, we appreciated your work. And then one of the issues was the words of the Chief of the Security Police in the Forestplace: “If we doubt everything that public and municipal institutions do, we participate in the loss of security.” I ask you to explain these words to the general public, and you kindly replied: “We tend to spit ourselves in the containers we have to drink.” I think that these two expressions are prophetic today, because you have allowed the country to be in a situation that causes any citizen to question the inconsistent statements made by officials. Our strategic partner, the United States, has actually made serious accusations against our country by the FinCEN. There have been serious suspicions of corruption of high public officials in Latvia. You, Mr Kučinski, just thanked your American colleagues for the report, but as a representative of a respectable country, you had to receive immediately all the explanations, evidence and surnames that make up these suspicions, but you have not yet received them! I do not understand who is actually directing our country. Because the head of any other country would at least have gone to the United States or met a US ambassador to find out the whole truth. Instead, on the ninth day after the event, you simply acknowledge your powerlessness and, together with the Unity, concentrate your efforts so that the Head of the Bank of Latvia, who has come to the attention of the law enforcement authorities, will be freed at any price with dubious grounds. At the moment, your mind is occupied not by saving the image of the state, but by eliminating the presumption of the remnant of the rule of law and the presumption of innocence in Latvia. And while the defence budget is being spent looking at the image of the fishermen in Kamchatka, the people of our country broke their head for a completely different problem: how to pay for the massively adult electricity bills that Mr Smilten has already spoken about. You see, neither me nor the rest of the population are interested in the end of the career of the politically bankrupt Minister for Economic Affairs, because we are all interested when these bills will be cut. The solution now, Mr. Kučinski, looks like a fairy tale about an old man who lived in a very narrow way and for whom the wise man of the village advised to bring all his cattle into the house, and on the second day take them out after each other so that the old man would find the house large enough. I think this kind of joke you'll try to play with the farmers. It will be like that old man in a fairy tale, to whom the house is still narrow. The so-called reform has failed and you have to act immediately as the Head of Government. You don't want to go into history as a covert for the current - this time OIC. The events of recent months have undermined the image of the public administration stronger than the Latvian enemies would see in their best dreams, and no troll army would be able to do as much harm as it has done such unmistakable leadership and individual members of your team. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of your Government, from THE UNIFORM, provides false information to the Members of the Saeima and avoids protecting children's rights abroad. We spoke about this in December, Mr Kučinski, but it was probably not interesting for you, because you did not even come to the Panel and you did not write a line in the answer. Your Government's Minister for Economics of Unity, the OIC, calls the reform. The Minister of Education and Science of your government has created the most terrible teaching content ever in Latvia, while ignoring the requirements of the law on the raising of values at school and creating a misunderstanding for both teachers and elders about the so-called approach of competences. Do you really not understand, Mr Kučinskis, that the ministers of Unity are undermining your reputation in the eyes of the public? Mr. Kučinskis, we are used to seeing you on this platform, however, the obligation of the Cabinet of Ministers as the trustee of the Saeima to submit for approval the accounts for the implementation of the budget, as provided for in the third paragraph of Article 66 of the Satversme, is not fulfilled already. I do not remember whether we would have approved just one such settlement in recent years. When will you finally begin to fulfill the Constitution? Mr Kučinska, you cannot claim compliance with the law from others if the Cabinet of Ministers explicitly ignores the requirements of the basic Latvian law. On the progress and expectations - that is the name of your report. I would like to know: what other challenges and troubles do you foresee for the long-standing nation of Latvia if the government prepares four mass peace prevention units in the regions of Latvia? This is the way to nowhere, Mr. Kučinski! You will create even more insecure Latvia than you have done so far. Therefore, I would simply suggest to you that you think about raising the well-being of the people. It's not the easy way, but it's the safest way. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U19	Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U20	Hello! Maybe you could ask for an extra one minute?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U21	Do Members have reservations if both speaking times are combined? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Yes!” ) Please call us! Let us vote in favour of bringing together the two speaking times! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 1, it's not. There is a decision to combine the two speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U22	Hello, Mr. Prime Minister. Ministers! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Today, hearing the annual report by Prime Minister Māra Kučinskas The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers gives the impression that much has been done. And there is probably too much to do, especially in education. For example, in the education sector alone there are currently 15 or more reforms in the process. Quality is beyond doubt. But can we also talk about purposeful and well - planned work, about quality? Formally everything is fine. Undoubtedly, reforms in education are necessary in Latvia. The changes in the demographic situation due to the functioning of the coalition of the parties in power in previous years make it necessary to review the issues relevant to the development of the country today, including the education system. The desire to improve the quality and competitiveness of education is a positive goal. I can also agree that well-educated, highly qualified specialists have a perspective and with such Latvian state have a future. Unfortunately, it now seems more likely that we will raise a low-educated workforce from the remaining human resources. The recently published government-approved plan to attract highly qualified professions only confirms this. Now I will draw attention to just a few reforms initiated by the current government, which will have the greatest and most direct impact on Latvia's future. A little bit about the optimisation of schools. Meeting with representatives of schools and municipalities, residents, parents... I personally believe that the plan is bad. There is a map, there are impersonal figures that are in line with the real objective set: to eliminate, reform, to cut costs in education so that teachers can raise salaries to EUR 1 500 per month, as promised by the Minister of Education and Science. Apparently, the chosen ones. Because how to do this for all the teachers, I personally do not see this system. The social role of schools, the historical tradition and the future are not taken into account. What, then, is the value of recording the current situation? It turns out that quality is not decisive either. One example of this is Mazsalaca Secondary School, which has excellent, excellent indicators, but only 28 secondary school students who have “took under the hammer” in front of this reform... If only something is expressed by the part-state membership of the county managers... For this latter, certainly not the highest quality, a total of EUR 140 000 was allocated - out of our taxpayers' money, of course... Have those 140,000 been used usefully? The number of secondary students has decreased by a third since 2015. And we all dream of smart students and high-quality universities. The second thing. Of course, in the context of the first, there is a question that has already been raised here - that is, the structure of the roads, the roads, how to get children to school. The authors of the study have forgotten that Latvia is not just Riga and other big cities. Rural areas, parishes and small towns - it is also Latvia. Quality public transport network. Public transport networks are already insufficient to meet the needs of citizens, and where is compliance with transport timetables... Roads. According to the so-called ‘General Card’, 31 road sections of 263 kilometres have to be reconstructed. Now, what is it for Latvia - to repair 263 kilometres of rural road, asphalt, so that children can get to school? It's probably very little. After the competence education plan, which is once again beautifully put on paper, the optimisation of rural secondary schools will not deliver the expected result, because to operate the system, three parallel classes are needed, well, at least two, which will be taught at three different levels of competence. And this plan focuses on the fact that secondary schools can only be in big cities, forgetting Latvia's regions. How realistic is it to take children every day by bus to school 40 miles [40 km] away? Shouldn't road infrastructure be arranged first, so that 15 miles [15 km] of the road doesn't take 45 minutes? How the Commission for Education, Culture and Science traveled from Skrunda to Vaiņode... Three hours a day - going to school and back! The third thing. Closure of boarding schools. No word in the report is about one of the "heroics" of this government: that boarding schools will be abolished by the end of the 2018/2019 training year by the decisions of this government. You gave boarding school to children one more year in hopes to live and study in their schools, but local governments, knowing that boarding schools will also be closed, are sceptical about the use of this one year of life (in particular, Vaiņode boarding school is closed from September 1, 2018). Perhaps it was worth taking more responsible decisions than boarding schools, but the best to keep them united or creating a transition model. I would not agree that the best boarding schools have a segmented environment. The fourth thing I want to talk about is starting from the age of six. These reforms require training from the age of six, but while I am in the Saeima there has been no discussion on this subject in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, or a conference on starting training from the age of six. When talking to kindergarten teachers and parents, many are confused about such an unprepared reform. Who will teach their children according to the new requirements? The teachers are not properly trained for this time. Where will children rest if they study in schools and not in kindergartens? And maybe at the national level, we must guarantee all children access to kindergartens from four years of age if compulsory training of six-year-olds is already required? To sum up all the above, I will quote Andra Upenieks, a teacher in the Education and Culture newspaper, who said: “When the high-quality reformers of the students themselves are lacking, but the teacher’s wisdom, skill and experience have not been present, the result will be sad.” While the education system has not yet been destroyed, I call on the Minister of Education and Science to acknowledge that he is neither competent to answer questions nor to plan and direct quality education reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U23	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U24	After the tradition, I also asked for the two speaking times to be combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U25	Whether Members have objections (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Yes!” ) against the unification of the two times of the debate? Please call me! Let us vote in favour of bringing Mr Viļums together the two times of the debate. ( Internouncing call.) Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 60, against - 1, refrains. A decision has been taken on the possibility of combining the two times of debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U26	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! So what should I add to the criticism that has already been expressed? And, of course, many more "good" things will be mentioned. I will allow all this, so to say, to conclude with a logical conclusion, in my view, that the government's depression should be demanded. For in general, the motto of this government action could be the popular saying: “There will be a new shit, these will be forgotten!” And indeed, we see that the government is waiting all the time for something else to happen so that the problems that are currently topical will be forgotten. Events of recent days in connection with the President of the Bank of Latvia... one says he should be changed, the other says he should be protected... You know, Latvian citizens, and also Latvian parliamentarians, you have to feel like in the popular game “Parliament Against the Mafia”, where roles are being selected – whether you are a peaceful citizen or an investigator, or a mafia boss. And we don't have any facts at the moment, either from the government or from the responsible authorities, who then Mr. Rimšēvičs is: a peaceful citizen, a mafia boss or an investigator? Of course, we must not forget the earlier burdens and things. On the story of Unity and Asheraden on the compulsory procurement component, on Mr Rasnačs and insolvency administrators and on the justice system as a whole, on Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola and on the tax reform putr, for which the accounting officers still broke their heads and officials say that they do not know how to solve all this. Another long forgotten story is about cash registers, isn't it? Mr Gerhard with his used tire grip and with his thoughts on regions that are still lacking. Mr Dūklav, who is mentioned in the oligarchy negotiations, has successfully distributed flood compensation and covered Dogo. Nice! Let's go! Mrs Chaksh, who is simply no longer a minister. Shadurskis with the 101 reform he wants to present as one huge and valuable reform... The story of the President of the Bank of Latvia may sometimes also be specifically highlighted... We forget a little more than a few other gentlemen who are less folded in the public media at present. Mr. Martinson and Mr. Sprūds, ABLV bank officials have sponsored many not to say all, parties, and in their report, the responsible authority of the United States of America is concerned that Latvia's third largest bank is systematically involved with bribery in sponsoring Latvian state and Riga officials in order to reduce risks to their business. Ladies and gentlemen! The money you have received from these gentlemen I have just mentioned is dirty. And you've been fed from these oncules for years. No, I don't ask you to take it back, because of course you won't. But here is one important word that I want to mention: responsibility! And the sign of a democratic state is the possibility of changing power. Like this option. In words, the Russian Federation is also a very democratic state. It's nothing that the opposition in the Russian State Council is such a paid Putin puppet theatre troupe. Unfortunately, here, too, we see similarities in Latvian politics, where the coalition and Saskaņa cooperate with each other. Mr Kučinskis does not create the new success story of Latvia, but only parasites on the basis of the current situation and tries to raise the ZZS support rating. The growth of the economy, which is always being scanned and called on all sides. You know, Mr. Kučinsky, I'd like to hear your government calculation. How much of its four percent of GDP growth is by... if we have to thank you for passing out these huge money through Latvian banks? There we are leading within the Baltic States. If these money were smaller, how much GDP in Latvia would have increased over the year? Mr Kučinski is a cynical child of coalition party marriage, because of course the green farmers are such green-minded people and owners in their own country. It's okay that Lembergs is for them. The national association is, of course, a patriotic party. It's nothing that there insolvency administrators change, God with them! CONNECTION... Well, the word is beautiful - Unity! It's okay that unitedly divides and unifyingly divides. And I already mentioned OIC. You can close your eyes to it, and let's get on with it! I said at the beginning that, in my opinion, the depression of the Kučinski Government should be demanded, and all the signs show that such a request would also be supported in one politically responsible, democratic parliament. As the ex-president, Mr Zatler, pointed out, at that time the Latvian policy consisted of three oligarchs, and each of the two regroupings changed the government. At the moment, of course, there are no risks in Latvia: these three parties will work so far and turn their eyes to the political partners, so to speak, to the left. And it really unites you, because you deceive each other and pretend that the other doesn't do it. No matter how paradoxical it is, I believe that the fall of this government and the creation of new governments, albeit with the support of the same three parties, could give you some hope, but I hope, based on professional objectives, that you are a real government with responsibility. Good luck!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U27	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U28	Madam President of the Saeima. Sir, Mr. Prime Minister and honourable ministers. What I will mention may be more relevant to Mr Shadurski and Mr Asheraden. I understand that the previous speakers probably did not encourage the desire to listen, but I still hope for a little attention. And this time I will allow myself to speak unconventionally, that is to say, about a thing that is probably not related to the next elections and pre-election speeches, but actually - about processes that will affect Latvia over the longer term. In fact, I want to call on the government and the Saeima (the head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) to prepare another structural reform, which has in fact been waiting for a long time, namely the reform of science and innovation, which would include the preparation and establishment of a fund to support science and innovation. In fact, Latvia is lagging behind in terms of innovation, and in different ratings it is quite far beyond other countries, and also in terms of the number of innovative companies at European Union level and OECD level, we are in the end or even in the very tail. It has been discussed long ago. Now also scientific institutions, universities have finally agreed on this need to set up an innovation fund and perhaps not to focus so much on new construction projects. The European Commission's report, which calls for the transformation of the science and innovation system and for more public funding directly from public funds, has also emerged recently because, in fact, it is now almost entirely based on European Union funds. A similar recommendation has been made by the Centre for the Coordination of Recones, analysing the National Development Plan, its implementation and future priorities. Programmes such as early-stage support, pre-incubation, commissioning of companies to research organisations, technology development support programmes that do not currently have direct funding should be supported by the Fund. And in order for this thing to have the financial resources that probably need quite a lot of money, scientists are talking about innovation... that the long-term objective would be an additional 50 million per year directly for the research sector... I think that a real source of resources would be another structural reform that is consistent with the budgetary derogation. In fact, the OECD report on Latvia last year also recommends - they are talking specifically about scientific funding - that a budgetary derogation would be necessary and feasible for such purposes. There you go! So now, in my opinion, is the time for everything to be prepared. Of course, if it has other financial resources, it may not require a derogation from the budget. But when I see what happens to the budget and what other needs are, I suspect that it will be necessary. The Parliamentary Commission for Sustainable Development (Mr Straujuma will talk about it) has also been working on this for a long time. That's what I want to end with. I will not ask for an additional two minutes, like other colleagues, but I call on all of us, and especially the ministers responsible for these areas, to agree and, in cooperation with the Commission for Sustainable Development, to prepare this structural reform, which would be a good job at the end of this parliamentary term. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U29	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U30	Hello, brothers and sisters! I think, and I think many of my party members will join, that the Cabinet of Ministers led by Maris Kučinskis is one of the best after Awakening. In my opinion, my other members of the party will agree that the government of Māra Kučinska is the first to try to evaluate the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of the work done, not on how and to whom taxpayers' money has been distributed. The Cabinet of Ministers, led by Mars Kučinskis, is a good leader of the country, despite the fact that we, those who sit here, have been enticed, are abyssed and have not given the government of Mars Kučinskis a clear goal to take our country away. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “And what about the government declaration?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) I invite you to help our Cabinet of Ministers and give this clear goal that we want Latvia for our children. By helping the Prime Minister by giving this objective in order to be able to draw up a long-term development plan, we are making the development of our country more predictable. By introducing a long-term plan, the approval of our national budget will become a guarantee for the development of the country rather than a market for the distribution of taxpayers' money, which, dear friends, looks more like after theft of the country. With the support of the Prime Minister, with a clear objective to be able to draw up a long-term action plan for the development of the country, we are reducing the possibility that the grey forces, as I call them, who are hiding behind renewed Czech bags, are manipulating us, officials and media, and stealing our country. I will send you, every person of the people, including Mr Zarins, my proposals, as I see this goal, how we can leave Latvia with our children. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “I’ll wait!” ) I will be very grateful to all my colleagues if we take away this apathy, this disbelief for ourselves that we can change something in our homeland, and yet let us try to change something in it and put this country in order. We're good owners in our land! We believe we succeed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U31	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U32	Madam President, Colleagues! That's all that is written here about health reform, two pages. And quite unquality. “ It’s always, Martyn! You don’t have a quality there at all!” ) The pre-health education section, for example, deals with the development of professional qualifications for lifelong learning and so on. And those professions with a severe shortage also include healthcare. Unfortunately, this is not mentioned here. Next. As a great achievement and heroic work, last year 34.3 million have been allocated to reducing the lines. Yes, thank you. That's a big money! But the conclusion, in my opinion, is not only inadequate, but also unfounded because (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “Absolute or unfounded?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ It is said that 25 percent of the queues have dropped, but the queues have fallen, not because people have expected the queue, but because people have been desperately forced to receive these services for their money, without waiting for the queue. Next. The medical law provides for a gradual withdrawal from the extended normal working time until 2020. Yes, that is, working in one institution, but no one pays overtime to any Latvian doctor if he is under heavy workload... After working for one and a half hours in Stradini, working in Gailzer and then going to the third hospital. Latvian doctors are being exploited! The next thing I really want to pay attention to is the call for further wage nivelling. There is talk of a fair distribution of funds for remuneration, ensuring that salaries are first increased for lower paid employees, but the fact that the average and highest medical staff have long been below the appropriate level of competitive wages is not mentioned. And the last one. E-health. On 1 March a new e-services - e-transfer will be introduced. Unfortunately, yesterday we heard that this service will only be introduced gradually. And I really have to show the Prime Minister about that... Yesterday we said that we were very concerned about the fact that you are not trying to find the perpetrators of the e-health project and the spending of this very big money in the production of quality products. That list of those guilty is on two pages. ( Interface: “Time!... April! April!’ ) The next and very important issue is staff policy. There is no health policy for personnel. And so there is no policy of health organisers. Now we see that the heads of the cars, the farmers... I do not want to insult people, but I have to say that medical management is becoming more and more unprofessional and would not prepare people for this work. National Health Service... And e-health services... Everything is made responsible to the people themselves. Everyone calls and is now looking for where the particular service is available in the hospital. And tens of thousands of Latvian pensioners call on their phones and receive the answer: “Wait! Wait for the answer!’ “The answer will be in 20 minutes!” - there are even the same answers. And every minute, money is paid from pensioners' pockets. They can't go to hospitals. Next. Mr. Gerhard's accusation. Please really, finally, have Mr. Gerharda explain to the local authorities in Latvia, which is the availability of health care services guaranteed to the population! What does this statutory function contain? And one more question. We see problems in interresor cooperation between the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Health in reducing disability and morbidity and spending these many tens of millions. Can I have another minute?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U33	Do Members have reservations if Member Schics brings together the two times of the debate? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Yes!” ; dep. A. Berzins: “Let him speak! Let us not force democracy!’ ) There are objections. Please call me! Let us vote for combining the two times of the debate! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision on combining the two times of the debate...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U34	At the end of the day, I would like to add, that's what. Now that these bank irregularities have been discovered and we are being hanged on the big call in the world for corruption and so on in Latvia. I very much want and call each of you... The only lot that has not received any money from ABLV bank, from Martinson, from Sprūds and others... This huge sponsoring party, clean your boxes! Look, count back this unfairly received money from these dishonest people. It will be a good example of this... ( Subnob: “Why do I deduct? Why count it?’ ) Back to the state budget, yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U35	Name of Member Inguna Silver. Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U36	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! I have examined the Prime Minister's annual report and it is another documentary proof of the concrete wall, which separates the ruling elite from the nation, its problems and everyday challenges. All you started two years ago, declaring economic growth, improving demographics and the quality of family life as your priorities. And what are the results of this team, which will now have to take responsibility for its own choices and decisions? Let's start with the demographics. It is over the last two years that the birth rate has not grown. If it has increased in the past, it does not grow in the last two years. We have almost the lowest proportion of families in Europe with two or more children. The demographic situation was critical before you and now, instead of improving the situation, you are improving processes that will promote and facilitate immigration. Yes, controlled and time-bound, call it what you want, but it's immigration. You say the average wage reaches almost 1,000. This is because in the thick end, especially in the public sector, many receive five-digit wages. A minimum of 20 recipients of the minimum wage shall meet mathematically for each of these five-digit recipients. Try to find out how thick the middle layer that gets this 1000 is. Are you saying that growth will remain rapid in 2018? Where was it in 2017? It seems that your long document writers have not even studied the NAP 2020 report, where our country looks positive in just four graphics. What growth? What are you talking about? Three-quarters of opinion leaders believe that the objectives set by the NAP for the creation of an excellent business environment have been unsuccessful. Here are some other negative examples that can be found even with the naked eye. The constant amendment of tax laws and the discovery of new taxable establishments in no way provide an excellent environment for entrepreneurs, but the most serious problems are corruption and the judicial system on which cannot be relied. Public administrations and municipalities are passively involved in attracting investment, and investments, however, are not critically assessed for their objectives and applications. The transit flow of goods has fallen to a critical level. I will ask a rhetorical question for the time being: if the government continues to undermine its relationship with the largest user of our transit corridor, how will the borrowings that will be used to modernise railway infrastructure take place? I know that nobody can answer me right now. You say that you have been working to reduce the components of compulsory procurement in your cheek sweats, but in reality we see thousands of farms and entrepreneurs showing us significant increases in bills from the beginning of this year. The issue of the OIC itself is very sharp and painful for the people. Why do we even have to pay the seventh highest OIC payment in Europe? Think about it: the people of poor Latvia pay 50 times more than a rich country like Sweden! And it's in a situation where Latvia is almost the first three in Europe in terms of its share of total energy consumption from renewable sources! In general, two thirds of Latvian experts note the eco-energy policy of this government as failing. If this is the result of your work, would it be more advantageous and peaceful for the nation and country if you did not work for a while? It is also over the last two years of your work that the global competitiveness index of our country has fallen considerably. The situation in Latgale has not changed in principle over the last four years, which has never come to an end during the crisis. Tell me that a special economic zone has been established in Latgale region? Have you also counted and examined in general whether it is bringing any economic benefit to the region or our country at all? Finally, the last nail I can offer is the fact that this government has obediently changed the National Development Plan and Transport Policy Guidelines by reducing the figures so as to legitimise this and previous government omissions. At the moment, even after your report, it is also unclear what will be happening in the next few years with the huge financial pit road. I can't stop asking: have you, gentlemen, been out of your limos and castles, who are up there? Are you still in contact with the people and people at all? At least Facebook, you got it? How can you afford it at all, so openly, from the platform, from television screens and publications to tell you how well and well in our country? And so it is no wonder that in our country, only every tenth of the population can be considered as a civic asset. Isn't that because every tenth of us works for us in the public sector? In your opinion, what kind of civil awareness and pride can we achieve and increase in our nation with such scandals of recent months, last days and public space shocks even on an international scale? How can it be said that "good" is the introduction of mass riot prevention units, even in regions? Forgive me for my directity, but this report by the head of the government is simply an attempt to blink your missing feathers. Don't place or time! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U37	Mrs Straut, would you have four minutes to debate? ( The box “No! ”) ; dep. L.Storage: ‘Yes!’ ) If it really takes four minutes, then we shall continue the debate. Member's name is Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U38	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Prime Minister, Ministers! Members! Colleagues! I thank the Prime Minister for an analysis of two years' work, but I want to talk about science today, at this exciting time. First of all, I would like to thank you very much and to express my greatest respect to the Minister for Education and Science, Mr Šadurski, who is not stopping to go ahead with truly qualitative reforms. Indeed, quality reforms. With all due respect! I have already said, dear colleagues, that each of us, of our two million, will not lose seven billions only if we are smarter than we are today. Each of us. And if we look at where we are in the global innovation index, we can see that we are now only in 33 places. We are not reaching the level of funding foreseen in the National Development Plan. The OECD tells us that our development is hindered by the lack of scientific funding. It is easier for me today because Member Einars Cilinskis has already spoken about an issue that we have been working on for over half a year with the Commission on Sustainable Development, that is, the creation of a science and innovation fund. We work with our universities, with scientists, as well as with business representatives. And that's why our commission calls... In time, all these days with the banks will be forgotten... The government, when preparing the budget for 2019, should prioritise science and universities and give money to the science and innovation fund. We have studied science and innovation funds operating in other countries. And in all countries that are the first seven in terms of the welfare index, such as Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands and Sweden, innovation and science funds have been set up, talent cities, science valleys have been created. Why don't we do that? Colleagues in the Government and the Saeima! Mr. Kučinski! I hope that there will be additional money for science and innovation in the preparation of next year's budget. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U39	Thank you to Mrs Straujuma. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, I invite you all to the opening event of the Latvian People's Party book in the Great Lodge of the Saeima. This book is a dedication to Latvia's centenary, and it is also an opportunity to leave its names and contributions. Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U40	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ringolds Balodis, Raivis Dzintars, Andrejs Judines, Andrejs Klementjevs... Mr. Clementyev! Ivans Klementyevs, Armands Krauze, Atis Lejiņš, Ingmārs Līdakas, Romualds Ražuks, Valdis Skujiņš, Edwards Smiltēns, Veiko Spolitis, Silvija Šimfas, Edvins Šnore and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U41	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U42	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - Annual report by Prime Minister Māra Kučinskas The Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U43	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! The Prime Minister mentioned in his report, however, problems such as regional problems, saying that Riga is not a stalemate, but an open hand. Perhaps, however, there is also the third option - Riga is a cheap, which the Riga gentlemen are showing to the regions. Mr Kučinski also said that the aim of the regions is to give work to Riga and Priega, and I cannot agree with that, but that is what is happening. He also mentioned that five percent - annual growth of gross domestic product... that this is the only way to develop regions, but the report does not see what economic growth has been in the regions has been. In 2017 in Latvia as a whole, it had been 4.5 percent. Was that also the case in Kurzeme, Vidzeme, Latgale? I don't have such data, but I have other data. Population. In 2017, the population in Latvia decreased by 8 percent compared to 2010. In Riga it has decreased by 4.8 percent, in Pierīga - by 2.4 percent, in Zemgale - by 10 percent, in Kurzeme - by 11.8 percent, in Vidzeme - by 12.1 percent, in Latgale - by 14 percent. I will be told that it is not, as they say, the fault of this government, because this government only started operating in January 2016. Well, let's look at these statistics for the last two years! In 2016, the total population in Latvia decreased by 0.1 percent, and in 2017 it decreased by approximately the same amount. However, in 2016 Zemgale - by 1.2 percent, Kurzeme - by 1.4 percent, Vidzeme - by 1.5 percent, Latgale - by 1.8 percent. In one year! Well then, probably the citizens do not yet feel the positive consequences of this government's action, you will say. How was it in 2017? And here all these figures are bigger if we look not only at relative but also at absolute figures. In Zemgale, thus minus 1.6 percent against 1.2 percent in 2016, in Kurzeme - minus 1.9 percent, in Vidzeme - minus 2.1 percent, in Latgale - minus 2.3 percent, which in absolute numbers is 6327 people. In a word, about a city like Balvi has disappeared in a year. In opposition to the Prime Minister, I will argue that economic growth is not the only way for regional development - rather the opposite. The real path for regional development is to develop or at least maintain infrastructure. But can the infrastructure be maintained if citizens flee? Schools must shut down, roads are not worth repairing. See! So, unfortunately, I want to conclude that this story that Latvia is gradually emptying... There you go! And so... Yes, of course... What do you do there? Here, perhaps Latgale is a particularly striking example. Last December I was in Latgale. The Riga Mr. Many times said that there are underdeveloped people living in Latgale. You see, I listened to what the people of Latgale said, that they were at least as well-developed and knowledgeable as those gentlemen of Riga. And if I had started talking there about innovation fund or technology development programmes or structural reforms, I would probably have returned to Riga with a blue eye. So I listened to what they were telling me. There you go! All right, I'm not going to list everything now because of a lack of time, but in any case what they say... One very obvious conclusion. Tell me, you're here in Riga, Pierīga, to take the felled trees to the port of Riga... estimate what costs you have and what costs we have if we bring them from Latgale. On the components of compulsory procurement. What they said, I am afraid to repeat from this troubling. Well, that's the thing, to say, it's... All right, I'm not gonna need an extra two minutes. Very short. The other thing I want to say. There's a thing like a demographic pyramid. Look at what happened! Maybe in 50 years, people will say that there's been a war here. There's no such rooster in peace. Those people who were born at the turn of the century... There's a pit there, here. Finally, I wish to wish Latvia the life of the sun, which I do, and add that Latvia is not only a geographical place, but also a country and a nation that live here. And if there is no Latvian nation, there will not be Latvia either. I call for this to be avoided. The life of the sun for Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U44	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper. Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U45	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. High Prime Minister! Ministers! Dear Members of the Committee. I tried very carefully to read this annual report on what was done. And I'll admit, once again, I'm not surprised by it, just like last year's accounts. If you read and, taken together, try to understand all the fields completely, it seems that everything is going normally, everything is intended. Of course, there are some things we need to pay attention to, and we will do so. Everything has been spoken in the form of the future - then it will be better, then it will be better. Of course, much thought to be logical, understandable, and also to be supported. Unfortunately, this cannot be attributed to my sector - education and culture. In these few minutes, it is extremely difficult and extremely difficult to express your opinion. That is why I will try to talk about things in a short way. 27 years of independence have passed, but on a daily basis we hear that nothing has been completely arranged in education. Everything is going on with the new education standard and the programme in my sector. European Fund: €3 million for e-schools, €3 million for pre-school restructuring, €3.5 million for setting up a network of vocational schools... Now 34 million are spent on developing the new standard and content. Four million plus another public funding - close to eight million in total - will be designed to improve the quality of teachers and the national language so that they can pass the tests in national language by 2021. I very much wanted to know in the report your views, as Prime Minister, on, first of all, the professional evaluation of the work of officials working in departments, services and the Centre in the Ministry of Education and Science. Have the funds spent - 50 million - and the generous salaries paid to officials for project management given their intention? Secondly. Should not the reform of education begin with the reform of the ministry itself? Thirdly. Why is it that, in the state-subsidised mass media, all the views of the Saeima Commission are not very, at all, reflected, and here, from the tribunal, other opinions? They are simply not reflected, and the people have the impression that the only good thing is what coalition parties are making. Now the report is somewhat more specific. First. On page 16, you write that the Public Administration Reform Plan is intended to improve the quality of the public administration's human resources. ISM State Education Quality Service employee, rapporteur with master's degree, doctor's degree, monthly salary is 680 EUR, on hand - 534 EUR. Can you claim any quality from this employee at all? Secondly. On page 23, you write: “Reorganisation of vocational secondary education institutions has been completed by establishing five centres of competence for vocational education (two in Riga, one in Ventspils, Daugavpils, Liepaja) and ensuring improvement of their material basis.” I have a question: why does Zemgale have no such center, but there are two in Riga? Thirdly. Your report is dated February 2018, but you write: “In 2017 it will end... “ Will 2017 be the next year? I think it's already over a month and a half ago! Fourth. ‘ A schedule of increase in teachers' pay has been adopted for the period from 1 September 2018 to 31 December 2022...” - this is what is written for you in that report. Perhaps the Minister has miswritten you. And that's 900 euros! On page 3, your report says that the average wage in the third quarter of 2017 is 925 euros and will be exceeded by thousands in the near future. And the question arises: how then do you plan for teachers in three years' time? Is it not nihilism in relation to people who have received higher education and are preparing our shocking shift, which will change everything that needs to be changed in Latvia? Five. To create talents, “need to implement”... I would like to read: 'We will finally take steps to develop the capacity of talented students'. No, no! You write "need to implement". Or do you not have to do it, perhaps you don't need it? Although 80 scientists, neurologists and psychologists of the world recognise music as the best means of developing students' skills, it seems that music professionals will have to convince you all, society, on this matter for a long time. That music is just entertainment - we are fighting it. You don't understand that one thing needs to be improved at school that's constantly being embarrassed! All the Members present, and especially the Minister of Education and Science, should learn about the criticisms and mistakes of industry practitioners and educators about a general education project based on a competence approach. If the project is implemented without adjustments, then there will be - nationals, listen! - reduction in the status of Latvian language. You are fighting for Latvian, but from the main subject of learning it will become only one of the languages to be learned, because it is equivalent to foreign languages. Go on. Voluntarily transfer of subjects in the fields of training. For example, literature that used to be with Latvian has been added to art, computer science has been added to technologies, not to mathematics, as is the case in normal, developed countries. Learning subjects - cultural understanding and drama. Until they are introduced, neither teachers nor teaching content will be prepared. I could also talk specifically about the content, which is extremely important for normal...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U46	Mr Platoper, your debate is over. You can ask for more...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U47	Remember! Yeah. To conclude, one sentence. Experiment with the entire national education system is not acceptable. And better fight with your closet, which has a big stuff that you are using! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U48	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U49	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, Mr. Prime Minister. Today, of course, we can also talk about the fact that the Prime Minister is guilty of having a 15-degree island outside. That can be done, and perhaps there is also Mr Kučinski's fault. But what I want you, Mr. Kučinski, to say... You see, that's actually a terrible situation. You started your report with what happened in Latvia in the last week. I believe that it is your duty, Mr Kučinska, to convene a press conference as soon as possible. You have a whole piaarist team. Take the Ministry of Defence, take the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, pick up your piaarists. Organise a press conference - an international press conference with English translators, buy some advertising time for CNNs and give your statement on what has happened in the country in the last week. People don't know, people don't know what's going on. And the ignorance creates only rumors. In this cloud of rumors, we all live today, and no one has information. But you, Mr. Kučinski, are one of the most visible faces on the international stage. Our name is abnormally corrupted. It's gonna be a generation's time until we get it back. What has happened now... If we speak with simple words, think of a cocktail that comes out of it. On Thursday, Scratch is released for half a million. Martinson's on Friday. Rimšēvičs is on Saturday. ABLV bank, and that's all... People think, ‘ Oh, my God! Where am I living?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why do I not have any information about this?’ The President comes out yesterday and says absolutely nothing. Mr Kučinska, please convene a press conference and tell the people of Latvia and the entire international arena what has happened. And protect our Latvian image! It is a vitally important thing. Such degradation has not yet occurred to our image. You have to do this, it is your duty to do it now. And there is no longer any kind of party war here that is "for", "for" or like. This is the image of our country on the international stage. You can't fix it from this platform. This can only be done in the highest eschelon, and it must be done to you, Mr Kučinski, because Mr. Vejonis did not learn to do so yesterday. That is what I am calling you to.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U50	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U51	Hello, colleagues! The great thinker Winnie Pooh - in some audiences he can be called the great thinker... So the great thinker Vinnie Puuk said: “You need to do what you have to do, but you don’t do what you don’t have to do.” This can, in particular, be attributed to the context of this debate. I think that is completely absurd! Imagine that the government has been working for a whole year. The format of the discussion is any one? Five minutes! Members have been discussing what the government has done for a whole year for no more than five minutes! In my opinion, this is a full profile of the Saeima's work. With this attitude, we demonstrate how much Latvia is a democratic republic and what place the parliament has in this democratic republic. Almost zero! We even debated the foreign policy debate, which is about nothing, for 10 minutes. You, my colleague, don't you think that's absurd? It seems to me to be a serious substance for reflection and for changes in the Rules of Procedure. If we're talking about government work... Mr Kučinska, you said: Latvia will develop. Indeed, Latvia will develop, but just how? If you can't answer it... If you do not have a solution to the future crisis in the labour market, if you cannot say that, then it is one thing that makes us seriously think about how we are going to develop. If you still cannot tell us how we will make the economy more innovative, because we still do not have our own national innovation system, then the development of Latvia that you talked about... It is about like driving a piece of ice in the spring through the stream down. It's like it's happening. That's great! Struggles us, as if we're moving forward, we're getting warmer and warmer. But actually, a piece of ice melts... And if we don't get to prepare our new boat, this new economy, based on innovative foundations, on the knowledge economy, then - apologies! - such development of Latvia, to which you lead... it leads our country and also our people to destruction. To poverty and destruction. I'm sorry. Because in a global world, only those who can build a knowledge economy here will be able to provide wealth. This is the new economic paradigm that has come... It was with industry. Those who were able to industrialise became welfare countries, but who still thought that agriculture and langus were the most important means of earning, were left out in the absence. So there's a situation like that. You are not making any conclusions. I can hardly say anything in five minutes, but I want to mention a couple of things about roads. It's about to start spring, there's gonna be a big problem. You have not answered how you will find the missing 60 million in 2019. We know there's some 20-30 coming. But the European Structural Funds go a lot more away... The evening on the lake will take place in 2020 at all! Why is it defaulted? Come and tell me how you will do this. How do we get back these minus 200 million? On e-health. You're telling me you're gonna make it up. But apologies, if you still cannot tell who is responsible for what and what is wrong, what hope is there that things will change further? Why have you still not produced an independent competent audit on this e-health? Why do you hesitate to do this? All this shows that it is just preparing for the next 10 million e-health. And, of course, I can't touch energy for the rest of the time. ( Insight: “We were expecting it! ” ) In your report, you may well mention as one of your successes the purchase of Conexus. But why are you still hiding from the public, what money has it been done, how much have we paid? It is still being hidden. And it suggests it's another... The case of Citadele is similar to the case of the rescue of the company's money... the former Conexus shareholders from a shrinking business. The only one that was willing to buy these shares for such an amount was the state. And so it was not the interests of the State and society that were concerned, but the interests of those shareholders. The other thing, of course, is the reform of the OIC... What's going on with the OIC. Already when you were here two years ago... When you accepted all this, I warned you from this troupe of what will end all this and why this reform is being implemented at all. That is to say, it was carried out in the interests of one narrow group, at the expense of all the others. And I warned you that, as soon as these others understand what happened, they will come and wolve this delicacy on their own and try to say that something needs to be changed again. And it's also happened - now the farmers have come and pull up their decoy... And, of course, that's the solution that is being offered... There is no solution here, it is simply offered to move from one shoulder to the other. Well, what's next? All right, the next will be other entrepreneurs who will come back and say, “Now it is solved at our expense!” And in the end, it will be the same as with all the reforms: who will pay for all this will be man ordinary.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U52	Mr. Zarins?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U53	I'll go on with my two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U54	Do Members have reservations about combining the two times of the debate? ( Impressions: “No! Let him speak!” ) None! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “Let him speak, I like him!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U55	Yeah? Thank you. Here we go! And the result will be what I now warn you fellow Members: the public will have to pay for it. We are promised... The reform of the OIC is undergoing a serious struggle... I will remind you, which is written in the Government's report: in order to prevent unfair behaviour in the OIC sector, the regulatory framework for strengthening supervision of economic operators is being improved in 2018, as well as the audit of OIC stations will be continued. Mr. Prime Minister! Have you seen those amendments at all? If you wish, I will make one of the proposals to you. These amendments provide that the operator will be able to be caught three times in the future before being deprived of this OIC authorisation. In five years, three times! So he can continue not doing it, but we will continue to pay him. And only if we catch him... Even then, he is given the opportunity and can continue to do so. Three times within five years. And if we look at the tests, we can see that these 39 stations have been tested for more than five months. There's a total of 400 stations. In five years, they cannot even be tested once at all. This means that in reality there is a regulatory framework, not to prevent unfair practices, but to ensure further unfair practices in this sector. Mr. Prime Minister! Do you really not have any of the ministers who could be appointed as an economic minister who understands something from energy and can sort this sector out? If you don't have such a person, I can do it! Mr. Prime Minister! In a month's time, I promise you, I will solve the story of the OIK Afero (and then you will be able to continue to dive your peaceful spirit and do what is going on there), if you really care to solve it, rather than continue to cover this afero. This is an elemental solution, but we simply need someone to come and act in the public interest and not in the interests of their sponsors and tambočku. I call on you to think seriously about this. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U56	Member Astrid Harjus.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U57	President of the Saeima! Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Dear Saeima! First of all, a government report. As always, the report has two parts. One is the critical part for which the greatest period of time has been devoted, and the other part is the one that welcomes what has been begun, made and progressed. I can say from my point of view, and also from the point of view of those who live in regions, that reforms in several fronts always bring suffering from the outset, but then shape development. If we are talking about education reform, those progressive municipal leaders who see things in the context understand that the optimisation of schools is in fact inevitable, because we simply do not have students. And if we know that we have a three-fold drop in the number of students, but the school network remains on the current level, then something is wrong with our home. Talking about learning six-year-olds in grade 1. In fact, I have a request for the Ministry to find funds, similar to those found by the Ministry of Finance, to promote tax reform and to explain how it is planned to start the training of six-year-old children in grade 1. That it will not differ significantly from the shape of a kindergarten (Interface: “Aye, Awake!” ) that there will be a teacher and a teacher's assistant, that the child will be there until five o'clock and, if you want, there will be a sleep mode. Those things are to be discussed and told. But now I'm going to focus on a very painful subject that Mr Zarins is asking the Commission - I'm not going to tell you how many months - to speak. And that's about the OIC system. Since I am also in the Committee on Petitions to be able to understand this issue, I have tried to go into the field and also to contact the persons involved in such a business. I can say that the Saeima as a whole should take responsibility. Because the green energy strategy began in the mid-1990s. However, on 5 May 2005 the Saeima adopted a decision on the electricity market law, which incorporated directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. And a norm was included that the costs of mandatory electricity procurement incurred by the public trader when purchasing electricity in the framework of mandatory procurement or paying the guaranteed fee for electric power installed in the power plant shall be borne by all Latvian end-users in proportion to their electricity consumption. Thus, from 2005 on this basis, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been developed, which, of course, have changed over time. Since 2005, the Ministry of Economics has been headed by 10 ministers. You are asking for a change of minister. Where's the succession? Where do you get some stuff? Because people in the department also go with the Minister. That was the last proof... When Arvils Asheradens, an existing Minister for Economics, started work in February 2016, the Department of Energy Market and Infrastructure was actually empty. How much resources are needed to renew such a department with staff? Of course, these regulations of 2005 of the Cabinet of Ministers stipulated... Can I go on for two more minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U58	Are there any objections from Members? ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U59	The rules established that for those who also produce this renewable energy, the purchase price is twice the market price, i.e. the price of other traders. They were therefore OIC payments. They divided into two parts: there was state aid and consumers had to cover the other part. State aid was withdrawn and everything remained on consumers. Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers were developed... We can all look at the governments and the ministers, who did so and were able to resign. In the last two days... Adopted the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which were favourable to the producers of this green energy; who did not set out to leave and actually check these stations on the spot; who allowed a double tariff for these stations for ten years from the moment of adoption, and then for the next ten years - with a slightly less support for the OIC system... That's why this government... and the Minister has undertaken to arrange the OIC system, which is not simple. We all live on the principle of legitimate expectations, we live in the state of law. The audit is ongoing. The control team therefore works to audit the OIC system in terms of purpose and nature. There is also an internal department audit on the legality of decisions. And now 39 risky stations are being audited. Eight licences have already been cancelled. At the end of February there will be a report on this audit. A regularisation of the OIC system is under way. But this embarrassment... There's a feeling that someone wants to stop and stop, just - in what interest? Not society anymore. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U60	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U61	Mr. Prime Minister! Dear Ministers, Colleagues! It is, of course, impossible to discuss all the government's report. I would just like to draw attention to one page and one point in the report. That is the fourth point to talk about reform in the field of education. I understand that every rapporteur always wants to present the good side of his or her actions to the public, and this report also welcomes, in two sentences, the reform of educational institutions that has been initiated. That is why the whole analysis has come to an end. I understand that it is not possible to write everything in one report at any time, especially what may have caused problems. It seems to me that such a reform... and perhaps also in other areas... In reality, the government has one major problem. And I think that's a problem in many areas. In particular, each issue is dealt with narrowly, in the context of this one issue, without addressing the country in systemic terms. It seems to me that the reform or optimisation plan of these educational institutions is based on mechanically counted figures, and it is said that we are thus saving public funding for such a narrowly understood area, i.e. just how to ensure the learning process. It is said to the public that this is all about improving the quality of education. But the quality of education does not seem to lie in large schools, or incubators. Look back at Latvia's history in the 1920s and 1930s - how many schools were there at that time on how many children, and what level of education in Latvia was reached among European countries! If we look at statistics from the Ministry of Education and Science, 104 schools have been closed in the last nine years. Please tell me, what kind of bag is missing the budgetary resources allocated to maintaining these schools? 104 schools! Today, 763 remains. This means that we always pump and pump money into education, we close schools, but when we close schools, there is still a lack of funds in its budget. Will we also ensure the creation of personalities by setting up large conveyor type schools? Do we no longer need to cultivate humanity in schools? Do you even need to be raised in large schools? But it's not a government question. The main thing is to ensure quality learning process! I would like to draw attention here to one topical topic of this reform, that is, the elimination of boarding schools. Oh, no! Not for disposal! There will simply be no funding in the national budget. To finance local governments! It seems to me that neither the Minister nor government representatives have gone to boarding schools and have looked at what is happening there, if they really believe that there are rich municipalities in Latvian regions, which can be maintained by means of boarding schools... If the government believes that the 2000 children, who will no longer learn boarding schools in this case, will really all attend school and their families will care for their children to be fed, warm and educated, then I think the government is somehow misleading. The reality is different! In rural areas, schools are, of course, also a kind of employer. Believe or not - 20-30 people remain unemployed when they close one school. Pre-retirement teachers are not offered faster retirement, while younger teachers go to district centres or big cities. And so we're going to get the countryside to be empty and empty, because the children of these young families won't go to rural schools anymore; they're going to the city schools. In particular, let us build Riga and some large regions with big schools. And finally. Perhaps it is also appropriate to look at what is happening to national security in this matter. These schools, which are located in rural areas and are closer to borders, will remain empty. The population will become smaller there, and then the green people will be able to come in safely, as the fields will be empty. The education system is one of those that, however, can also be slightly braked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U62	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U63	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Members! Colleagues! The position taken by Prime Minister Kučinski and the government is very well understood. It is objectively justified because the problems facing any government are great and creating a sense of stability and security is very important. But it is important that the fact that the government feels good is not the only thing that it inspires. Indeed, Prime Minister Kučinski is a friend and support of all ministers and is satisfied with the work of each minister. And the ministers are therefore also satisfied with the Prime Minister. But such satisfaction... there is a good case if it is followed by some work. I would like to see the report, the report and the debate followed, but I would like to see a phase in which to start thinking about how to meet the people who do not go and leave. Because if he listens to Mr Kučinska's report, he would like the survivors in Latvia to live at the European average welfare level. But it is clear that those who do not reach the European average have nothing to do here. They have to leave, all shows. OIC. The OIC sphere is not only beneficial to anyone, but it is unfair to the state of Latvia, the Constitution of Latvia and the declared purposes, because it incites people against each other. The real farmer, the so-called small farmer who has no cogeneration capability... And all the electricity produced is sold for double... The money doesn't come from some mystical place, it comes from a neighbor who pays the full bill and therefore keeps his own manorman, a large giant. And he has a choice: either to leave - the children are almost gone - or to go to their neighbour. I think it's very risky... It is a risky hope. The same is true of medical reform. Because of this pointless, rotten e-aphere, people are pushed out... People see that they're left without them, that there are eight thousand big and even bigger monthly chiefs, just because they're the bosses... not doctors, but chief executives - Chairs of the board and members of the board. And the same thing is, of course, also with so-called educational reforms: in fact, this is the way it reacts, redistributing it to the narrow... the ever narrowest resource. I do not believe that there is someone here in the hall who would like the government to work badly. Perhaps there is an element of the race, probably there is jealousy - a kind of jealousy, as the Prime Minister said. Everything is possible! I have had to see various models of government leaders. And I understand very well... And it very much fits Māra Kučinski's inside - without irony! - a good human image. But that's not enough, Mr. Kučinski! You are not only a friend of your ministers; you are also the hope of all people in Latvia, including those who did not vote for you. Today, particularly from the opposition, many good things have been said, really good things that should be... And that is the answer to your call for cooperation. Are you going to do something? Probably not! Because you have to defend your ministers, and everyone in your sector is much more ‘mainly’ than you, who basically has the function of defending them and chairing the sittings of the government. That's the idea. Dispute it! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U64	The name of the Member, Janis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U65	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! I, too, will talk a little about health. I am really pleased that it is Mara Kučinski's government that dared to start tackling the growing problems of healthcare. This government received a weakened health sector, so recovery is needed (Interest from the Group: “Who is guilty?” ) time. And there is still much to be done. First of all, what had to be done by previous governments was achieved, and also in the years to come, the allocation of significantly higher funding for the treatment of patients and the remuneration of doctors. However, it would be a deception if we felt that health care, with more money, was saved. In fact, the reform of all stages of the health care system, efficiency has only started. In addition, health sector reform, like any reform, is ejecting a person from his usual comfort zone, and this automatically creates resistance. The increase in funding for the sector is only one condition, but it is a very important element. Much remains to be done in order to regulate legislation, so the Health Care Financing Act will also need to be improved. It is not possible to prevent in such a short space of time problems that have accumulated for perhaps ten years or even a little longer. The Ministry of Health and the government are now receiving quite a lot of accusations (and, of course, often - justified accusations!) the solution to one or the other problem. Errors are made, but they are corrected, and problems are solved. There is much to be discussed about how good or bad e-health is, how morally outdated and costly it is, but I think any such system, whose implementation time is longer than two years, needs to be renewed from the date of its introduction, as technology is constantly and rapidly evolving. We have no alternatives but to put in place e-health, but of course the services concerned must work in an emergency regime to address the shortcomings and provide support to users. Action has made it clear that the health situation is much more serious than it seemed two years ago, so we are now at the very beginning of the system's improvement, adjustment and efficiency. The first important steps have been taken. The allocation of additional funds is only one element, but it still makes it possible to raise medical salaries, reduce queues and significantly improve patients' treatment in a number of important disease groups, where more advanced treatment will be available. Better treatment has also improved the rate of premature death reduction, and by this we are taking one of the lowest places in Europe. The extra money makes it possible to improve the treatment of oncological diseases, cardiovascular diseases, hepatitis C and other diseases. Also, in a number of patient groups, injustice has been eliminated and full funding has been granted for reimbursement of medication, such as psoriasis and Crohn’s disease patients, whose total number in Latvia is around 100,000. I would like to emphasise once again that it is this government that has been able to melt this problem, rather than continue to load it on these wheels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U66	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U67	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear Prime Minister, Dear Ministers, I think we could all agree with the analysis that there are countries and nations that never get into anything, and there are ones that sometimes get into them, but smartly able to deal with them and get out of them. I think, unfortunately, that when we look at the history of our country, we cannot claim that we are a country that never gets into the shells. But I think we could already start writing a manual - how to get out of the cubes and what should be done. Dear colleagues, At the moment, our country is in the barbecue. And there is the question of how we, our government, our head of government and also our parliament, are responding to it. There have been things that have been good and properly managed, and there have been things that have not been as smart as they should. For example, the very influential European and global newspaper “Financial Times” devoted four articles to Latvia yesterday. And the main article was unfortunately about the fact that the President of the Bank of Latvia, Mr. Rimšēvičs, does not admit his fault, will not give up and, moreover, claims that he had been threatened with life. Dear colleagues, this is an inadequate response to the pumpkin! We can’t, of course, influence one person’s individual choice, but I want to ask if every one of us who has a phone number from Mr. Rimšēvičs in a phone book called him and said: “Go away! Stop acting on behalf of the State of Latvia!” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Vectirāns: “I don’t! Give me the phone!’ ) Dear colleagues! The second question of evisceration is about our response to this evisceration - has this reaction always been consistent and adequate? I really want to call on the head of the government to take very seriously the response to the situation of a particular pumpkin - has it been smart, balanced and adequate in all ministries? I think that where it has not been the case, those responsible must be severely punished for this. Mr. Prime Minister! When I think about the future, with the hope that perhaps we will ever be a country that never gets into the carnage, I would like to call upon you to think more about the long-term planning of our financial and tax system, targeted and sequential action in this regard. Unfortunately, during your government's time, we have come down a couple of times. It is a tool that works and is sometimes necessary. Hopefully, we're going to take down the bank deposits of non-residents in our banks. However, please, let us plan our financial and tax policies a little bit smarter! At the moment, as we know very well, many accountants working in companies that are the backbone of our economy are serious signals to us that there are problems with the way in which the various income tax rates of citizens are currently calculated for the countless minimums, and so on. Please, let us not ignore the fact that we do not have to work with any stop taps again! Finally. Emergency measures are needed in emergency situations. We know that. Dear Prime Minister, We granted 15 million flood victims to Latvian farmers, and this was right, because our farmers had suffered, particularly in Latgale. But I would like to call on you, however, to assess adequately whether 15 million were an appropriate amount; whether it was too much and whether all the farmers who really needed it received it. Because there are signals from the farmers themselves that there have been some who may have received too much support, perhaps they have been unduly received. Moreover, there have been indications that the Ministry of Agriculture did not have a very high degree of certainty as to how to grant this aid. Finally, I would like to point out that 15 million is almost the amount needed to exit our public media from the advertising market. We now see how important it is to defend our information space by strengthening our public media. Colleagues! In the context of this crisis or the carnage, please make a firm commitment: public media must be strengthened, money is needed, and our public media must leave the advertising market. And 13 million is not a big sum to make it happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U68	Thank you. I closed the debate. (Applause) Mr Kučinska, would you like to add something? The Head of Government does not want to add or explain anything. We do not have to vote on this report, colleagues. The report is therefore to be regarded as having been examined. Thank you to the Prime Minister. Thank you to the government representatives who took part in the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, Members Abu Meri, Spolitis, Dalder, Adamovich, Matīss and Kiršte are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia””. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Ekto Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U69	Hello, colleagues! Let's get back a little bit of history! On 31 October 2013, the majority of the Saeima elected (by 76 votes in favour and four abstentions) the President of the Bank of Latvia Ilmars Rimšēvičs for the third term. On 1 January 2014 Latvia joined the euro area. Unfortunately, the events of the last days, as we have heard, show us very convincingly... There may be little information at the moment, but, at least, according to the State Police and the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau, the situation with the President of the Bank of Latvia is not in order. In this case, we are in a situation where, following these historic changes due to the 2013 vote... And with 1 January our representative on the European Central Bank's Governing Council is without the right to vote. I mean, his alternate, who's coming there right now. Therefore, in this situation we have prepared changes to the law, and therefore I call for amendments to this law, so that we can look at the actions of the Head of the Bank of Latvia from the new situation and solve this problem in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U70	Thank you. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Valdis Kalnozols. ( Intercretion: “He prayed without a microphone! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U71	Hello, brothers and sisters! I call for no support. Why? We observe the presumption of innocence and respect for Latvia, and we respect the office of the President of the Bank of Latvia! We expect a better trial decision! Recently, journalist Boyr showed in his story about the Squirrel that anything - anything! - can lie with true facts. I have a great request: let us not humiliate ourselves and our country!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U72	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. We have to vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Knanozol, then vote against!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” to be included on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 68, against - 7, refrains - 2. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Shrought the map!” ) So the draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers” be submitted to the Legal Commission, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U73	The request to refer this draft law to the Legal Commission and not to designate as the jointly responsible Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U74	So there is a proposal to refer the draft law only to the Legal Commission, which defines it as the committee responsible. Please, turn on the microphone for the Waiter Burns!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U75	The Legal Commission examined this draft law as the committee responsible. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U76	So there is no objection. So... Do the other Members object to the handover of the draft law to the Legal Commission, making it a commission responsible? There is no objection. The draft law shall be submitted to the Legal Commission, determining it as the commission responsible. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Registration of Real Estate in Land Registers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Legal Commission, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U77	The draft laws are also requested to be referred to the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U78	Making it a commission responsible? Do not the Legal Commission object? Turn on the microphone for the Gaid Burns!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U79	The Legal Commission shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U80	Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Legal Commission, by stating that it is the Commission responsible? There is no objection by Members. The draft law shall be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Land Register Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law tabled by Members Silver, Neighbouring, Stepanenko, Zariņa, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina, Kūtra, Maya and Miloslavska be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U81	Dear colleagues, It seems clear to everyone that the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia is the legislator and cannot intervene directly in the activities of the public administration. However, in a parliamentary republic it is logical that Parliament is responsible for the state in general. If the government is not working well, then Parliament decides to change it. However, in order not to be so far away, Parliament is performing one of its three functions, and one of these three is parliamentary control over the work of the government. Guess: Parliament implements this function. This should be done and not simply considered as such a role for Parliament. It is well known that the scientist of national law, Karl Dishler, explained in 1925 that three instruments of parliamentary control had emerged historically. The first of these instruments is Members' questions. I quote: “It aims to bring about openness and clarification in a case where clarity is desirable. While the government may receive some warning through the question, the question also gives her a good opportunity to dispel unfounded suspicions and explain to the public the motives for its action.’ This means of control has already been ridiculed by the ruling parties and ministers of Latvia in recent years. A few years ago, even our honourable colleagues from coalition parties acknowledged this and called for an amendment to the parliamentary roll. Please say, where are these long-awaited amendments now? Are the answers of the government's representatives to the Members' questions left the same, namely, no one? What respect can we demand from citizens for the law if ministers ignore this requirement of the law? The second instrument of parliamentary control is requests. It's stronger. Again, I quote Dishler: “It is not only about bringing transparency and clarity into a case, but also directly affecting the government, sometimes before the change of composition of the government in whole or in part.” The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia has set up a Commission of Request, whose main task is to evaluate requests made by Members before the vote in the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, If I have been correctly informed, it appears that neither the 10th Saeima nor the 11th Saeima nor the 12th Saeima’s Questions Commission has supported any request made by Members. Are the members of this commission guilty here? They may not take any other decision already, as it is denied by paragraph 4.3 of the Cooperation Agreement between the political parties forming the Cabinet of Ministers, which in my opinion is a disgusting anti-constitutional, contrary to Article 1 of the Satversme first. The decision is determined by the Coalition Cooperation Council - a formation that is not the organ of the people's representation. Colleagues! Is it really true that there are no requests made by Members at the Commission on Petitions and subsequently at the Saeima sitting, which are essential, important for the citizens of the country? Let us remember the recent mention of the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs in relation to the components of compulsory procurement. Is this really not an issue for the citizens of the country at the moment? Why do colleagues from coalition parties not allow for such a long time to ask for a clear answer? Is it a tactic for the protection of the Minister or the Cabinet of Ministers? From what? From the population? Why is it that fellow Members, as a method of solving the problem, only think that perhaps some sort of depression should be required? We see that the Request Commission, by its very nature, prevents topical problems from being dealt with in parliamentary order. Why, then, is such a commission needed? Mr Brigmanis said here a few weeks ago from the troupe: "Well, take it out!" Members, let us make our request directly to the Saeima, because people need to know that there are Members in the Saeima who are not satisfied with the work of the government! Ministers, on the other hand, if they want to prevent unjustified suspicions, will apply for the sittings of the Saeima themselves and will explain... will provide clarity on these issues. There is an ancient and precise knowledge of national law in science. ‘ Only a truly democratic political regime makes it possible to exercise parliamentary control over public administration." Dear colleagues, Do we have this democratic political regime in Latvia or do we not? I therefore call for support for our draft law. And I ask the Legal Commission to ensure that parliamentary control is implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the roll of order of the Saeima. Mr. Neighbours, you have not yet been given a name. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “I’m not up yet!” ) I would therefore like to refer to the roll of order of the Saeima, which provides that one Member speaks for, one against, of the draft law being passed on to the committee. If the proposer applies for a debate, in this case, Mr Neimins, who has signed this bill himself, is to be deemed to be speaking "in favour" and defending his proposal. So, Mr. Village, you can't talk. You cannot speak against this proposal. No, according to the parliamentary roll of order, you cannot speak against this proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D.Zaka: “Undo the signature!” ) Mr. Neighbours, are you withdrawing your signature? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “I have withdrawn, I have withdrawn, yes!” ) So if Mr. Neighbours withdraws his signature... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Now I can speak against”? ) If you withdraw your signature and it is fixed, you can speak against it. ( Milestones.) Name to Member Artus Neminis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “I can now speak?” ) Mr. Neighbours, I am sorry. At the moment, I see that the order of those who have applied has been changed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Ojar, let me!” ) Mr. Kalnins, will you speak against? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Tell them about that mistake!” ) Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Member, has applied to speak against. Mr. Neighbours... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, I love you with all my heart!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U83	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! I assume Mr. Neighbouring wants to say something like that. If you read this proposal, it reads: “The first paragraph of the first paragraph of Article 149 is open.” But if it reads our Rules of Procedure, it's the Foreign Affairs Commission. I understand, therefore, that with this proposal, the Committee on Foreign Affairs is willing to be dissolved. I don't know if anyone wants to do that. I wouldn't recommend doing this personally. So I would recommend voting 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U84	Thank you. As a result, one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll” (No 1149/Lp12), which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 58, for - 4. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the Member Neighbourhood, Zariņa, Potapkin, Morozova and Arthur Rubika to the Legal Commission, by stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U85	Yes, honourable Members! It was indeed an error, a typing error, which could also discredit these amendments in the Rules of Procedure, because there is no reason to exclude the Foreign Affairs Commission. Maybe, Mrs. Silver, I don't know. Maybe. But I wouldn't have signed it. It just happened in a great hurry, because everyone was deeply dissatisfied. In fact, I have to agree with every word that Mr Curry, the previous speaker, said. That is absolutely true. Because these amendments to the Rules of Procedure are a step of despair. It is true that President Brigmanis, even if he wants to, cannot support any requests. It is true that out of the 30 requests that have been made, no one has been supported because there is a coalition Treaty and an anti-constitutional measure such as the Coalition Cooperation Council. There is a point in the coalition agreement that the coalition partners must not move forward on any proposal from the opposition. We have had many different painful things in which we demand answers. I will try to remind you of what was most loud in recent times. Those children who have been taken out of the families of the Latvian population living in England... When there were 33 children removed, we submitted a request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to find out what was going on. However, as regards our demand, there was a crackdown. In particular, the Request Commission said: “You can’t! The Members who have submitted the application shall be entitled to be heard by the Court of We asked about cashiers because cashiers are replaced and there is only one supplier across the country that can replace cashiers according to the requirements of the State Revenue Service. We ask, we ask questions - there is no answer! The stop screen is demolished - The Request Commission acts as usual. Recent talks have been held about OIC cases and afēres and all of them (the term used by each of them in connection with this abstraction, it is for each of them). The thing is that this commission works as a buffer commission. If the Chair of the FAO Group itself will vote in favour today, because he does not feel happy with this burden on his shoulders, because he cannot move matters further to the ministries, so these amendments have been tabled so that this Commission does not have any kind of saying at all, and that the issues that are in the area in question are at the moment brought to the relevant committee. So if we have a question about cash registers, we're going to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, and that's it! If we have a question about children in England, we're going to the Foreign Affairs Commission, and that's it! We don't need a buffer commission. Because this one's already insane. Then the next amendments will perhaps be about us excluding the Constitution... That's so crazy. Because a situation like this is not normal, it is wrong practice. That can't be the case! A Member shall have the right to send a request. Please support this. There are no legal errors here, as was the case in the previous request. Please pass it on to the Legal Commission. Gaidis Berzins said he didn't want to work because he had a lot of work, but now that's the job, Gaidis! Members have a lot to do. Please support these amendments. Let's wind up the Request Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U86	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll” (No 1150/Lp12), which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - 3, for - 10. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “I congratulate you! Thank you!” ) The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Fisheries presented by Member Cilinska, Debtor, Krēsliņa, Jansons and Dzintara be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, with responsibility for the Commission. ‘ “A Member has applied to speak about” Einars Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U87	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law was assisted by the specialists of VARAM, and the draft law provides that in future the construction and repair of boats and ships would be carried out only in places defined in the local municipality's territory plan. To date, it has been carried out in statutory places which are not in conflict with the planning of the local authority’s territory. Of course, municipalities can also not identify anything that contradicts... And so it is mostly not prohibited. However, the wintering of boats and vessels, as well as the setting up of fishing and water tourist settlement sites, would take place in the same way as before - in places that do not conflict with the planning of the local territory. The question is: do these activities have to be authorised, as these legislative amendments do? This could still be discussed, but, in principle, the construction and repair of boats and ships, which are potentially polluting activities in the environment, could only be carried out in special locations. So the current regulation does not eliminate it to the full, and that is why we are facing a case like a house-ship that has been widely spoken. I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U88	Mr. Edgars Putra has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U89	Colleagues! The law may have high objectives and is aimed at the fact that, of course, we do not want this house-ship on the coast, this real estate "Oli", in the boat area, in the area of Pāvilosta... But the problem is that this regulation, as such, will not solve problems related to the house-ship and similar, but will actually create an additional burden, an additional burden on coastal fishermen for activities such as winter boating, the storage of fishing gear, fishermen's recreational activities. In essence, the question is: should these activities really bear an additional administrative burden? Of course, on the part of the Ministry of Agriculture, it has been said that so far coastal fishermen have not had such problems and, I think, are not planned in the near future either. Yes, the eighth part of Section 9 of the Fisheries Law already provides that “overwintering, construction and repair of boats and vessels in the coastal zone of the Baltic Sea and Riga Gulf, as well as the installation of fishing and water tourism settlements are permitted, unless this is contrary to the planning of the local municipality’s territory”. At present, where the house-ship is standing, the boat area is an area of erosion risks, while the property “Oli” is agricultural land. So there's already a contradiction, and there can't be such a building here. Therefore, let us not create new burdens for coastal fishermen when looking for a solution, as this needs to be sought in a completely different law with very different norms! ( Insight: ‘ Which? ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U90	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fisheries” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -59, for -6, for -18. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Designs” be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that Member Judine, Abu Meri, Srollish, Schulz and Matīss be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U91	Dear colleagues, Thank you for your support for putting the issue on the agenda this morning. I hope that you will also support the legislative proposal, as it is important. I would also like to remind those who may have doubts and do not understand that this is about creating general regulation in the case of criminal proceedings that have been completed, but there is public interest in finding out more about the facts in the case. And if we had such a regulation, we would probably know more about the case of Jaungerikar; we would know more about the case of Judge Berzins; we would know more about the case of oligarch. And if we now accept this norm, we will certainly know more about the case of Rimšēvičs. Therefore, my fellow Members, I will not repeat all the arguments. I just want to draw your attention to the fact that the decision on whether or not to allow access to all of this will be made by lawyers. Date of Birth: a) 1 January 1966 b) 1 January 1966 c) 1 January 1966 d) 1 January 1966 d) Approximately 1967. And it's not that we're going to send the case to the library. Well, that's not gonna be it! Please support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U92	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the procedure for publishing the materials of criminal procedure No. 16870000911 submitted by Member Judina, Abu Meri, Srollis, Schulz and Matīss be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U93	Colleagues! We also talked about this draft law. This draft law provides for publicising the negotiations in the “Rīdzene” case. I understand that I did not have the opportunity to debate today with Mr Smilten, because one spoke about it, one about it, one about it. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft law that was submitted... your project is really not of quality, because by providing that 117 volumes are to be published, you want KNAB employees not to work with the Rimšēvičs case, but to sit and digitize. Moreover, its information is irrelevant to most of society. It is important for society to negotiate. I understand you wrote it in a hurry. It was really important for you to show that Mr. Schic, who has been opposed to work all the time, is not so bad... that you are in favour. All right! I understand all this! “ Stop! Don’t go down to the level of the neighbourhood!” ) But it is important for us to have quality. And this project has a quality. That is, we have arrangements for publishing information that is of great importance. I am now asking you, perhaps for a moment, to turn off your political ambitions and simply vote in favour of a bill that is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U94	Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Consequently, Members have reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law “Law on Public Disclosure of Criminal Procedure No. 16870000911” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 25, for - 3. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission by Mr Abu Meri, Mr Srollišs, Mr Dalder, Mr Adamovich, Ms Matīss and Mr Kiršteins. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U95	Hello, colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Latvijas Banka is a symbol of the stability of the state financial system. The President of the Bank of Latvia is one of the 19 central bank leaders of the euro area, who takes decisions in the European Central Bank Council, thus not only making decisions at national level, but at European level. This is not only a question of the stability of the financial system and the international image of our country, but also of public confidence in the stability of the euro area and in the banking system as a whole. The President of the Bank of Latvia may not be anyone. It is necessary to lay down the requirements for this post to be held only by professionals with an excellent reputation and experience and knowledge of the financial and capital markets. In a letter of 10 November 2017, the President of Latvia invited the Saeima to systematically evaluate all regulations in force, where officials are not restricted to more than two consecutive terms of office in the respective post. One such high officials is the President of the Bank of Latvia. Currently, the law “On the Bank of Latvia” does not provide for restrictions to hold office as President of the Bank of Latvia for several consecutive terms. In order to prevent risks of stagnation, facilitate the development of the institution and create the conditions for this important post to be selected after a reasonable period of time a new professional should be appointed, the draft law provides that the same person may be the President of the Bank of Latvia for no more than two consecutive terms. At the same time, it is planned to shorten the term of office of the President of the Bank of Latvia, his deputy and members of the Council for five years. You know what is happening now in the country and in the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “No!” ) We are not the court; we, the Saeima, are the legislators. We are monitoring any sector in this country. We also have a role to play in order to sort out this sector. We are now in a situation where a high-level state official has a destructive position - both internationally undermining the state's image and undermining public confidence in the state. It is necessary to introduce a clear mechanism for the temporary removal or suspension of an official while the person concerned is either justified or proved guilty. In fact, the issue of the honour of an official would be a departure, conscious of his duties and of the disastrous consequences that such a shadow of doubt can have for the sector. Therefore, the amendments set out the procedure for the early dismissal of the President of the Bank of Latvia, which provides that the Saeima may decide to release him if it is established that the President of the Bank of Latvia does not meet the criteria of his office, including perfect reputation, and in addition it provides that the powers of the President of the Bank of Latvia, his deputy or the council member are suspended for the duration of criminal proceedings if the President of the Bank of Latvia, his deputy or the council member is a suspect, accused or accused in criminal proceedings. The Saeima should not be a judge and court decision-makers, but the Saeima should prevent the risk that the President of the Bank of Latvia is a person who throws a huge shadow of corruption into the entire financial system and can discredit future decisions of the Bank of Latvia, as well as create doubts about the capacity of the Bank of Latvia as an institution and harm the interests of the state. Please support the referral of the draft law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U96	Mr. Ruck, will you have enough four minutes? That's enough. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U97	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I do not understand the urgency of amending this law at the moment, because it is, in fact, a very serious issue. It cannot, in any way, affect and will not affect the situation which has arisen in the country. In addition, there are concerns about the quality of the amendments to the law, because some points, for example, which provide for a reduction of the term of office of the President of the Bank of Latvia from six to five years, are actually affecting the independence of the Bank of Latvia, because the six years currently stipulated in the legislation ensure that the election takes place in every second Saeima. So, in fact, there is a very significant imbalance here. It seems to me that these are quite serious issues that should be discussed by the political groups. These amendments should therefore go in the normal way. It should be noted that paragraph 6 of the annotation clearly shows that no consultation has taken place in the preparation of draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U98	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (Tax) establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, time for break! Please call me! Please register the Members! Mr Orlov, would you like to make a statement now? Name for the statement to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U99	Dear colleagues working in the Saeima Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please go to the committee meeting, which will take place in five minutes' time in the committee's premises!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U100	Dear colleagues, On February 18, 55th anniversary was celebrated by our colleague Walter Dambe, and we congratulate him! (Applause) Name for reading the results of the registration to a member of the Seimas Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U101	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Ringolds Balodis, Raivis Dzintars, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Atis Lejiņš, Ingmārs Līdaka, Romualds Ražuks, Valdis Skujiņš, Edvins Šnore and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U102	Interruption until 13.30 a.m. Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U103	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We will continue the sitting of the Saeima on 22 February 2018. Agenda item "On own-initiative proposals submitted" On the agenda is the report by the Saeima Bureau on its own motion. Dear colleagues, Members Boriss Cilevičs, Ivans Ribakovs, Andris Morozovs, Jānis Tutins, Vitalijs Orlovs, Jeļena Lazareva, Igors Zujevs, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Sergejs Potapkins and Ivars Zarins have submitted their own proposal for a decision on the opinion of the European Commission on Democracy through Law (Venetian Commission) on the draft law on Education (No 1128/Lp12) and on the draft law on General Education (No 1127/Lp12)". Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? Do Members have objections? ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Consequently, Members have reservations. We must therefore decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. One Member may speak in favour, one against and one against, on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting of this decision. ‘ Member Boris Cilevičs has signed up to speak for’.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U104	Dear colleagues, A few words about what the Venice Commission is. The Commission of the Council of Europe “Democracy through Law” or the Venice Commission is the consultative body of the Council of Europe. It shall advise the Member States on matters relating to constitutional rights and the interpretation of the fundamental principles of democracy in legislation with a view to ensuring compliance of Member States' legislation with European standards in the fields of democracy, law and human rights, taking into account the international experience accumulated. 61 countries participate in the Venice Commission - all 47 members of the Council of Europe, as well as the United States, Mexico, Brazil and others. Each Member State shall delegate to the Commission one internationally recognised expert. Colleagues! Yesterday in the media, I noticed claims that the Venice Commission only advises countries that are in transition to democracy, but that Latvia, a Member State of the European Union, does not work. Such allegations are not true. Of course, the new democracies have the most problems, but in recent years the Venice Commission has also delivered opinions and recommendations to countries such as Belgium, Finland, France, Great Britain, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Spain, Switzerland and others (at the request of these countries), as well as to the European Union. The opinion of the Venice Commission can also be requested by an international organisation - the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, the European Commission, the OSCE - but it is always better if the opinion is asked by the state itself than by an international body. Colleagues! I believe that we must learn from the mistakes of others. Yes, we have achieved a great deal in the development of democracy, but it would certainly be too early to think that we are now the smartest and that we no longer need the advice of the best international experts. The level of discussion on the proposed amendments to education legislation also proves this. The forms, forms and levels of education of minorities, as well as the scope, vary greatly depending on the specific situation. The main factors are the number of persons belonging to minorities, the existing demand and practical possibilities to meet this demand, as determined by the second paragraph of Article 14 of the General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, which is also binding on Latvia. A few weeks ago, several coalition Members from this troupe told us how important democratic and human rights values and standards are for them, and how diligent they want to listen to organisations that develop and interpret these standards. These are the recommendations of the Council of Europe. Today, colleagues, you have a good opportunity to prove that your conviction has not changed in a few weeks and that the standards of the Council of Europe are still important to you. I will be honest: although I have been working in this field for many years (diversity management, that is, diversity management), I do not believe that I know the final truth, and I completely admit that I can make a mistake and that the Venice Commission will not agree with my conclusions. But it is important for me to hear the views of the leading European experts, I am ready to learn and adjust my opinions. If you are really interested in ensuring that Latvian legislation complies with European standards and principles, you should support our proposal. If not, then, unfortunately, it will only have to be interpreted as clear proof that you are simply afraid and well aware that the current reform of minority education is not being implemented in accordance with European standards, that is, you simply want to avoid the assessment of international experts because you know that this will not be a good thing for you. Dear colleagues, I would, however, like to believe that compliance with European standards with our legislation is essential for you, and I call on you to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U105	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the opinion of the draft decision of the Saeima on democracy through law of the European Commission (Venetian Commission) on amendments to the draft law on education (No 1128/Lp12) and draft law on amendments to the general education law (No 1127/Lp12) of the Saeima on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 25, against - 52, refraining from - 2. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda for the next ordinary sitting. Honourable Members! Is there a proposal to transfer the relevant own-initiative proposal to one of the commissions? Please turn on the microphone for Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U106	I propose that this draft decision be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U107	Thank you. So there is a proposal to refer this draft decision to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the referral of the draft decision of the Saeima on the opinion of the European Commission on Democracy through Law (Venetian Commission) on the draft law on amendments to Education Law (No 1128/Lp12) and draft law on General Education Law (No 1127/Lp12) to the Education, Culture and Science Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 48, for - 2. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal has been rejected. The next item is the agenda. On 15 February this year, Mr Janis Adamsons was given unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Jānis Adamsons requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 15 February of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Edvinas Šnore on 15 February of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Edwin Schnore to grant him unpaid leave on 15 February of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to a Member Mārtiņš Šics from 13 March to 15 March this year. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Mārtiņš Šics from March 13 to March 15! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Procedure for the entry into force of the Law on Society and Foundations”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Ainārs Mežulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U108	Hello, dear colleagues! No proposals have been received for the second reading, and because the draft law is urgent, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U109	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Procedure for the Entry into Force of the Law on Society and Foundations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Crowd-Publishing Companies”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U110	Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Crowd-Publishing Companies’. The draft law has been drafted in accordance with the task set out in the Government Action Plan for Implementation of Declarations on the activities planned by the Cabinet of Ministers headed by Māra Kučinska, namely, to promote access to alternative financing for credit institutions, including mutual loan platforms and cooperative loan companies. The draft law provides for clarification of the provisions of the Law on Creeds companies, the word ‘basic shares’ and the word ‘additional shares’ shall be replaced by the word ‘interests’. The draft law also provides for a clarification of the delegation provided for in the Law on Crea-issued companies in respect of activities carried out by the Financial and Capital Markets Commission in the field of supervision of cooperative savings banks. One of the main hurting topics... In order to ensure that companies are able to attract qualified specialists, replace them, train and certify them, as well as to attract experts on policy issues, develop procedures and coordinate them with the Commission, they may jointly agree on outsourcing. This draft law is supported by the Commission. I call on the Saeima to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U111	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U112	Dear colleagues, I call on you to pay serious attention to this draft law. This is very important for our economy. Why? Because... First of all, I would like to quote to you what Meijer Amshel Rotshild, the founder of the Rotshildo dynasty, said at the beginning of the 19th century. Please, listen to me! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš laughs.) “Give me the opportunity to spend and control public money, and I will be of little importance when it comes to issuing laws in the country!” I will repeat so that you may hear this (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Once again! Start from the beginning!’ ): “Give me the opportunity to spend and control public money, and I will be of little importance in issuing laws in the country!” ( Independence: “Once again! Again!” ) That is why it is very important... I very much urge you not to treat this draft law as we do in many cases - with apathy: “Oh, we don’t care, we don’t care!” It is a request that we work for ourselves to manage our money and not allow others to do so. I recall, I informed you that Austrian, German and other leading banks in the European Union are essentially credit-producing companies. With us, these credit companies are... I wouldn't say, but in a very sad state. I therefore call for serious consideration to be given to this very important draft law for our economy. Give me your proposals so that our support went through the development of society... that they are the most professional and contribute to economic development. We're good owners in our land! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: ‘... Good housekeepers in their own land! Yes!’ ) We believe we will succeed!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U113	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission... The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U114	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that not only are the clarification provisions of the law, but also, as I said, this outsourcing, which I would be able to use together by credit institutions, will already be partially strengthened, and this is the first step towards second level credit companies, where we will be able to talk more seriously about the growth and development of credit institutions. I invite you to support this draft law at first reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U115	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Creeds Companies”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U116	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 5 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U117	Thank you. Proposals are due by 5 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U118	Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission has also examined and supported this draft law. The purpose of the draft law is to prevent conflicts in regulatory enactments, because the Law on Audit Services gives the right to the sworn auditor not to disclose to the State Revenue Service information about suspicious transactions affecting the tax area. Also, certain norms of the Law on Audit Services are technically specified. I call for this draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U119	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U120	The deadline for tabling proposals, like the previous draft law, is 5 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U121	Thank you. Proposals are due by 5 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “European Economic Area Financial Instrument and Norwegian Financial Instrument Management Law 2014-2021”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U122	Colleagues! A Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of those financial instruments was signed on 14 December last year. This will allow the Latvian economy to inflate more than 102 million euros - funding in very different areas. International police cooperation, research, education, climate change mitigation, adjustment services, business development, innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises - this is just part of the areas covered by these financial instruments. The draft law provides for a clear and transparent implementation framework based on the good practice of the previous period of implementation of the European Economic Area Financial Instrument and the Norwegian Financial Instrument, which will continue accordingly. At present, very many sectoral ministries have very high levels of readiness and, in fact, the adoption of such a law will remove the last obstacle to starting to absorb this funding. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U123	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the European Economic Area Financial Mechanism and Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 period! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U124	The deadline for submitting constructive proposals is 5 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U125	Thank you. Proposals are due by 5 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Geospatial Information Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U126	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Geospatial Information Law” (No 1120/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft laws for the first reading. The draft law is designed to ensure free use of the independent global positioning base system “Latvian Positioning System”. The draft law stipulates that these amendments will enter into force on 1 July this year. In turn, the Ministry of Defence has carried out a reallocation of 94 810 euros in the state budget programme to ensure the free use of this system. Dear colleagues, I call on you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U127	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on Geospatial Information Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U128	The Commission will wait until 27 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U129	The deadline for submitting proposals is February 27, this year. Dear colleagues, The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Equity and Corporate Governance, first reading. Drafter of the law - Cabinet of Ministers. And there is an alternative draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” submitted by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. First, on behalf of the Commission, Member Anrijs Matīss will report on both draft laws, and then both draft laws will be subject to a possible debate. There will then be a vote, first on the draft law tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers and requested by the Commission to be rejected, and then on the support of an alternative draft law at first reading. The name to Member Anry Matīss, who will report on the draft law submitted by the Commission and the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U130	Yeah, thank you. Madam President, Dear colleagues, The draft law was drawn up on the basis of the provisions of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission of the Saeima on the direction of the sale process of the state-owned 75 per cent bank Citadele’s shares, the criteria for setting the sale prices and the deadline for the resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process, the recommendations in the final report. The draft law drawn up by the Commission is separated from the draft law supported and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers by the conceptual approach regarding the regulation of liability of board members. In the Commission’s view, it provides a more successful and corporate governance solution to the problem of the conclusions of the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the practice of concluding a guarantee contract with officials of state-owned companies. The draft law provides that the decision of the Supreme Authority of a public person should take responsibility for the losses, for example, when the Cabinet of Ministers takes a decision on setting a non-financial objective or giving a task to a capital company, the performance of which is expected to cause losses to the capital company. Thus, this division of responsibilities is removed from the management bodies of a capital company – the board and the board. This draft law provides for amendments to the tasks of the capital company council, by providing that the capital company council elects and withdraws the chairman and members of the board of the capital company board. Until now, the law provided that the Board was to elect and withdraw the members of the Board, but did not include any regulation regarding the Chairman of the Board. I ask you, dear colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, to reject the draft law tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers on “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity and Corporate Governance” (No 967/Lp12).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U131	Please call me! So we will first vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. I would remind you that the Commission is calling for this draft law to be rejected. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 79, for - 1. Draft law has been rejected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “If Kučinski knew it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U132	Thank you, colleagues. Next. I request the urgent nature of the draft law drafted by the Commission on Amendments to the Law on Public Equity and Corporate Governance (No 1145/Lp12).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U133	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” (No 1145/Lp12) as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U134	Thank you, colleagues. Finally, on behalf of the Commission, I am calling for support to be given to the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Management of Public Shares and Companies (No 1145/Lp12).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U135	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” (No 1145/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U136	Thank you. The Commission will wait until 5 March of this year, and consideration at the Saeima sitting on 15 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U137	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 March this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 15 March this year. Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U138	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, which was submitted by the Saeima to the Cabinet of Ministers. After hearing the views of the government representatives, we concluded that this draft law contains the amendments required by the Criminal Procedure Act and follows from three documents: firstly, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the strengthening of certain aspects of the presumption of innocence; secondly, the Directive on legal aid for suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings; thirdly, the Directive on procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings. In short, it can be said that, in essence, the Criminal Procedure Law respects the requirements of these directives, but there are nuances about which the representatives of the ministries considered that they should be clarified in Latvian law, namely, the right of individual persons, especially minors, to strengthen and expand. I invite Members to read carefully the proposed Section 19, Paragraph 4 of the Criminal Procedure Law, which states: if a state official who is not a person involved in criminal proceedings has made a public statement about the guilt of a person in violation of the principle of presumption of innocence, the leader of the proceedings shall, on the basis of a reasoned application by a person, publicly inform the public about the inadmissibility of the violation referred to in this Article. In particular, there are such nuances, which have so far been ignored in real practice in Latvia, and this draft law tries to arrange the way international documents require. The Legal Commission assessed and supported the draft law at first reading and invited the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U139	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U140	We invite you to submit proposals by 12 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U141	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U142	Hello, colleagues! At the beginning of 2017, at the national initiative, a law was adopted establishing a system for the transfer of passenger data obtained by airlines to the Passenger Data Processing System under the responsibility of the Security Police, so that law enforcement authorities could analyse data on those persons who pose a threat to national security (terrorism threats and other serious crimes, such as the transportation of drugs in the context of smuggling) and thus identify these crimes in a timely manner. This draft law implants the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of Passenger Name Record data for the prevention of terrorist offences and serious crimes. The implementation of the Directive also clarifies which criminal offences should be allowed to derive data from the information system. The draft law provides for the replacement of the reference to the criminal law (which concerns serious and particularly serious crimes) with an annex listing specific offences. Consequently, the purpose of the law is changed in order to ensure the integration of that annex into the law. Since the European Union has also established a higher standard of protection of the privacy of a person by establishing a lower number of offences for which data are allowed to be processed, the pre-established system for pre-control of the collection of data by judges is maintained. In line with the existing regulation on personal data processing in the European Union, the draft law also provides for the introduction of a new institute - a data processing inspector - to monitor compliance with data processing in the institutions. The Directive also provides that carriers should be subject to proportionate and effective penalties for non-transfer of data, therefore the Latvian Code of Administrative Offences is already updated, establishing responsibility for violations in the area of data transfer of passengers, while the Special Law provides for norms that will enter into force in conjunction with the Administrative Offences Procedure Law. The Commission examined this draft law and endorsed it at its meeting on 14 February this year. On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U143	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U144	Deadline for submission of proposals - March 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U145	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U146	Colleagues! The draft laws ‘Amendments to the General Education Act’ and ‘Amendments to the Education Act’ are part of a single package. I will therefore present these two draft laws to the Saeima at the same time. Drafts of law have been developed by the Ministry of Education and Science, establishing a gradual transition to state language training in general secondary education and changes in binary education. Now more specifically than every draft law. ‘ Amendments to the Education Act” provides for a gradual transition to state language in secondary schools until 2021./2022. the school year. 2021/2022 The following proportion of the learning language in Bulgarian and Latvian in grade 10-12 shall be valid for the school year. Thus, the bilateral training remains at pre-school level. In primary school class 1-6, the proportion between Latvian and minority language is 50 per cent against 50 per cent. In grade 7-9, the proportion in Latvian and minority language is 80 percent against 20 percent. Secondary school classes 10-12 take place in Latvian. So I'm talking about the 2021/2022 school year. The transition takes place within four years and draft laws clearly reflect the gradual introduction of the new content. For example, in 2018/2019 changes are only in Class 12 - exams take place in Latvian. The rest of the education system remains the previous one, and I would also like to remind you that nothing is changed in pre-school. Go on. ‘ Amendments to the Law on General Education” states that a single general secondary education programme for all educational institutions is established at secondary level. Provision is made for educational institutions to continue to teach the language of the minority and the learning content related to the identity and integration of minorities in Latvian society. The evidence indicates that the gradual introduction of the state language is in line with the reform of the content of general education. Colleagues, in parallel, there will also be training for educators. Eight thousand teachers working in minority education programmes are to be trained. The indicative funding is almost 3.3 million euros, designed to strengthen and raise the level of the state language skills, methodology courses for teaching subjects in the state language, manuals for the implementation of training in the Latvian language and other activities. The Commission examined both these draft laws on 14 February and I ask the Saeima to support them at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U147	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U148	President-in-Office. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Sir, Obviously, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” forms the framework with the following draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”, so both conceptually should be considered together. I, like my group's colleagues, am in favour of a fair and democratic solution to the education of minority children and adolescents, so I believe that families and the upper grades of secondary education themselves must be given the opportunity to choose between several different versions of minority language. The government, for its part, is imposing one solution, and stresses it as the only right one, without providing scientific justification or convincing sociological analysis for its purpose, without consulting representatives of the public concerned, namely parents and educators. More! The solution proposed by the Government is to reduce the use of minority languages: in secondary school - to zero, in primary school from 7 to 9th grade - to 20 percent. This means that only native languages and literature can actually be taught in minority languages. Bilingual training will only be possible in the primary school period from grades 1 to 6, by reducing the learning content in minority languages by half. And kindergartens or preschool educational institutions - so that (quote) “to successfully start primary education in Latvian”. ( End quoted) So in school, you can only learn about public money in this way, without any alternatives, and for private money in private schools, too. The purpose of the draft law. In my view, both draft laws are not a routine change in legislation in the field of education, but a new turn of ethno-policy pursued by the state, which drastically reduces the possibilities of preserving and developing the identity of minorities belonging to Latvia. It must be self-evident that public places have the opportunity to communicate and receive a reply in the national language. It is equally obvious that every graduate of the school understands Latvian. However, strengthening the Latvian language is not contrary to minority rights in education. Therefore, any reforms in the field of minority education should also take into account the interests and rights of persons belonging to minorities and should be aware of their demand for training in their mother tongue. For ethnopolicies to be fair and democratic, its methods, including the use of teaching languages in general education, must be scrupulously balanced so as not to create additional psychological stress for learners and the possibility of reproducing family stereotypes. The family language is not just a product of popular culture and a bearer. I also talked about this when both draft laws were passed on to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Language is a means of continuing the family and the culture of the people. The Hague recommendations of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe on the right of minorities to education note (I quote): "Education is an extremely important element in maintaining and developing the identity of persons belonging to a minority." ( End quoted) Therefore, recommendations indicate that it is best to present a curriculum in minority languages in primary school and that a large part of subjects in secondary school should be taught in minority languages. Latvia ratified the General Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of National Minorities. Article 14 provides: if there is sufficient demand, persons belonging to minorities must have adequate access to education in minority language in the territory they are living in, either historically or in large numbers. However, as the annotations of the two draft laws show, the demand for training in minority languages, making amendments to both laws, was not identified. The fact that the government cancels training in minority languages in secondary school without alternatives and radically reduces the use of minority languages in primary school without creating other opportunities to strengthen minority language use in the education process, as well as the fact that the drafting and promotion of amendments to the law is taking place in a hurry and without consulting interested parties, proves that the whole idea is a clear political goal, namely to strengthen the visibility of coalition parties in the next elections, 13th Saeima. This could be treated against irony if it were not detrimental to the interests of citizens and would not pose risks to the cohesion of society as a whole. This reform is poisonous and leaves no other way but to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U149	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U150	The occupation power destroyed independent Latvia, sent many Latvians, including my family, to Siberia, subjected to repression, and made them forget their language. At the same time, foreign boots arrived in Latvia, who tried to impose Russian here and confirmed their lack of culture and humanity. When the first language reform took place, I was still in school. At that time these foreign boots went along my school and allowed not only to oppose Latvian but also called it dog language. Some of the members of the Saeima present were happy to come with them, in violation of the oath given by the Saeima. On the part of the government, there was a good sense of covetousness at that time. It was already possible to put an end to this divided education. Single language education could have been introduced in 2011, when the National Association collected signatures for a single language education. The initiative was not supported at that time because of the resistance of the pro-cremic parties and, unfortunately, political leaders of several Latvian parties, despite the fact that 120,000 Latvian citizens signed up to this initiative. A further seven years have been wasted, a time when educational institutions that do not provide education in the national language have been in operation. This year, it has to end. Despite some individuals who hate the state of Latvia, including those who are in the Saeima, we must finally move to common education in the state language. I call for support to be given to this draft law as well as to the future.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U151	Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U152	Hello, dear colleagues! I am sorry, Mr Dombrava, we are not talking about politics today, but about education. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Dombrava: “Look at what oath you have made!” ) The proposed amendments to the General Education Law provide for the exclusion of the second paragraph of Article 42. It is clear to everyone that mother tongue, mother tongue, has a huge role to play in human life. The native language is not only about culture and traditions, but also about thinking processes, psychological education and analytical capacity development. Thus, the learning content associated with the minority’s native language and national identity will no longer be a mandatory component of the minority education programme in secondary school. It will only be an option without state guarantees. In Latvia, with the exception of ten schools of minorities, there are 98 schools with minority programmes. In total, they account for no more than 40 per cent of the total school population. According to statistics, 790 schools were active in Latvia in 2016/2017. I would also like to point out that over the last decade both schools and pupils have already decreased by 30 percent due to the depopulation. The crossing point of the general education reform is the judgment of the Constitutional Court adopted in 2004. It states that Article 91 of the Satversme requires equal treatment only for persons who are in equal and comparable circumstances. The Constitutional Court noted that representatives of minorities are not present in the same conditions as persons belonging to the basic nation. The right to education included in the first sentence of Article 112 of the Satversme requires that the quality control mechanism of the educational process should be objective, comprehensive, professional, regular, as well as based on scientific knowledge and methods. The state has a duty to provide the public - the learners and their parents - with information about changes in the quality of education and the progress of the education process. Contrary to the arguments in favour of reform, the authors of the draft law adopted various sociological studies, including a survey of the research centre SKDS on self-assessment of the state language knowledge. In this survey, only 96 people were between 18 and 24 years of age. Their self-assessment allows the Ministry of Education and Science to encourage the need for fundamental rights restrictions for tens of thousands of people. The other arguments put forward in the argument and in the information report do not in any way confirm the need to restrict the fundamental rights of minority children. There is also a lack of data on success in national tests, but the data provided show rather an improvement in the national language skills. Then the question is: how important and topical is it to change the existing system in schools with a bilateral education, if we have a major change in the content of the learning that is expected to be introduced by 2022? The General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, signed by Latvia, provides that if there is sufficient demand, persons belonging to minorities should have adequate opportunities to acquire education in minority language in the territory where they live historically or in large numbers. Moreover, Article 104 of the Satversme still includes norms of international documents, but provides for even more extensive rights. Persons belonging to minorities have the right to preserve and develop their language, aesthetic and cultural characteristics. Dear colleagues, As a mother, I believe that the aim of general education is to create optimal conditions for children to acquire as much knowledge and skills as possible in life. Help to acquire knowledge and skills, develop talents, not meet the political ambitions that can be seen in the proposed bill! School reform consists of three parts. Firstly, reducing the school network. But there is no concrete plan for this process for the Ministry of Education and Science, and in the current situation, as I have understood, only negotiations with municipalities are taking place. Secondly, the introduction of a new content of training. This is also unknown and is in the development phase. Thirdly, the transformation of minority education programmes into pre-school, primary and secondary education. And it would be logical to follow this sequence, not the other way round. By changing the existing linguistic system now, the Ministry of Education and Science deceives the public on the goal of improving the knowledge of Latvian language for students studying in schools with minority programmes. While meeting with my constituents, I can assure you that there is a catastrophic lack in the country of good Latvian teachers for children who have no native language. There are also many complaints about textbooks. We do not even have a professional standard for teachers, but every year the Ministry of Education and Science creates new requirements for teachers. There is no provision in the country for the training of teachers in linguistic education, but there is and will be demand for it. The European Latvian Association complains that during the re-migration, children cannot learn the curriculum in Latvian schools because they do not manage their mother tongue at a sufficient level. In order to help such children, there must be a methodology and good teachers, but they do not. The need to prepare third-country children for training in Latvian schools is and will be due to the growing shortage of labour. Studies of democrats show that already in 2025 each fifth worker in Latvia will be a foreign worker. Currently, children who have not yet been able to learn Latvian well for objective reasons must also learn the most important subjects in this language. Has anyone ever tried to seriously investigate the consequences and the benefits of change? There are many problems in current binary training. Methods have long been out of date, teaching of learning content has no connection with modern interactive technologies, there are no Latvian language teaching tools on the Internet, their testing lasts for years. Instead of addressing these problems together gradually, a genius decision on the transition is made almost entirely to training in Latvian already from the 7th class in 2019, ignoring the views of these children's parents. Our country has a clear request for education in Russian. Every fourth child is educated in minority schools. Since 2009/2010. The number of school year students in Russian schools is potentially increasing each year and there are now about 56,000 children. The Minister for Education and Science admits that he has no answer as to why the number of pupils in these schools is increasing. I believe that the diversity of nationalities is the pride and wealth of Latvia, the source of economic development. We also see a Finnish example in the border area where Russian is taught in schools. This is about the future of the new generation. Will existing students - Latvian citizens - stay in Latvia to teach their children in their homeland and mother tongue or leave after completing general education? Will the Saeima and the government, before the elections, humiliate their talented young people under political pressure by forcing them to travel abroad? I propose that we vote against the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U153	Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U154	Hello, Chairman! Good afternoon, Minister. Hello, colleagues! Bilingual education system in Latvia currently works very well and meets its goals. Young people who leave minority schools well know Latvian and their native language. These graduates do not face problems in the labour market and enter universities. In the existing education system, both children know more languages and the balance is maintained between knowledge and the right to education in their mother tongue. It is therefore not at all clear why reform is needed. However, I would like to touch more on it because it contains a number of uncertainties which also affect part of the costs. First. For what money will the transition to learning only in Latvian be implemented? According to the plan, children under grade 7 will have to start the school year in Latvian after a year of one and a half. The Education Act stipulates that the State is obliged to provide pupils with teaching aids. This means that all these children must provide books in all subjects from grades 1 to 7. This requires, first of all, a methodology. Second, books and other teaching aids. Has anyone counted how much it will cost? And where will the money be taken? And are we going to have enough educators? I would like to emphasise that the changes will affect at least 25 percent of all pupils in Latvian schools. Secondly. It is clear that the reform - the transition to study only in Latvian - has nothing to do with the changes in content, as the Ministry tells us. Three years have been allowed for content implementation, but the transition for children from grades 1 to 6 takes place at the same time – in one year. So the children will learn from the old content. The introduction of the learning language takes place in one year in seven groups of classes at the same time after only one year of preparation. On the Minister's side, the statement that the transition is due to changes in content is simply a bluff and misleading people. The reform relates only to the Unity Rescue Plan. It seems that there is some kind of lifebuoy in this unprecedented populism. Thirdly. What if this question were discussed with the public? Because this issue is not discussed with the public or with non-governmental organisations. If the Minister of Education and Science could look at the situation more widely, perhaps see the obvious: reforms will affect not only 25 percent of students, they will also affect their parents, relatives and the finances of these families. The Minister has decided that everyone should learn Latvian, but has not thought about how to implement his idea. In practice, this will mean longer school hours for children at home (probably with parents, possibly with paid private students). Such matters simply cannot be decided almost or exclusively. And what is the ultimate aim of this reform? Obviously, the segregation of the population must be ensured, as no other result can be achieved with such an approach. However, the aim must be another: stability and peace. Peace between Latvians and non-Latvians; cohesion, which promotes the growth and development of the country and would testify to the maturity of politicians. But you will agree that allowing a substantial part of society to exercise its right to education in their mother tongue - it is not an extra but simple respect for human rights? It is a pity that the reform of education, which should really be aimed at improving the quality of education, improving the content, is now reduced to a common language issue that has no connection with the quality of the content. People around the world are trying to learn and teach as many languages as possible to their children. It is the language knowledge that is most valuable in today's world, because it provides people with better job opportunities and simple communication capabilities around the world. On the other hand, the Latvian Minister of Education and Science is trying to say the opposite to us - the less he knows, the better he is. And this principle is based on the so-called educational reform. And that's pathetic! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U155	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U156	Dear President, Honourable Members! Member Lazareva referred to history and minorities. I would like to recall the relevant Council of Europe Convention on Minorities in the Baltic States. There were minorities, such as the Baltics, who lived there for 700 years, and the Swedes, who lived on the island of Kihn and on the island of Rones for more than a thousand years. There are no known territorial minorities who would have lived on our territory for five hundred years and more. Some say, for example, that old believers could be, but old believers in the 17th-18th century arrived in Poland, where, by the way, there was already a calendar after the new style. So if we ever come and talk about a calendar and celebrate Christmas, let's say in an old style, it should be remembered that those who enter another country are subject to the laws of that country. Except Latvia... Of course, here we are different. What was the situation before the war in Latvia, which we often love to mention? I took a print at the Conversion Vocabulary about the situation before 1934. So the parliamentary facility. In Riga - five state-funded Russian secondary schools. Total 10. One was municipalities, three were organizations, and one was private... So five publicly-funded gymnasiums. The Latvians were 29, the Jews were two, the Germans were two. But together the Germans had nine secondary schools, or gymnasiums, and the Jews had 14. The whole system of this was actually destroyed, because we know that about half of the schools in Riga are in Russian flow. So the first principle. Those entering another country apply to language and culture and to the traditions that exist there. It has to be said that 80 percent of what you call minorities, Mrs. Lazareva, have arrived in Latvia after the Second World War: either directly arrived with tanks, or their descendants, grandchildren. It would not be right to refer here to the historical situation. ( FROM a fraction that says, ‘ That’s it! ’) ) If we look at the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, then there is Article 13. Look at the Internet! It says that there is a right to set up private educational institutions that do not impose any financial obligations on the parties, that is to say, the State. Latvia is coming against these people. I had a conversation with Max van der Stull when we took up this convention (I was Chair of the Foreign Affairs Commission) and we agreed that we would leave this school to minorities, although there was no reason to leave here, because in fact, everyone should adapt to the situation in Latvia. I think that the model that is currently being developed and reported by Mrs Straujuma is very good, because the emphasis on language in Classes 1-6 is precisely. After all, children learn the language, and 50 percent are in minority languages. That, in my opinion, is a very good option. I would recommend that everyone else in the SACCAN Group read again Article 14 of that convention, that nothing should harm the language of the country. Yesterday in Panorama, honourable colleagues, we saw a 9th grade student who could not speak in Latvian with any consistent words and spoke Russian. 22 percent of students in Latvia, graduates of secondary school, do not know the language. Well, sorry, independence in the 28th year! It's a disaster! I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U157	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U158	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Much interesting heard from this troupe when talking about the General Education Law and the Education Law. But I think there are some obvious things. In particular, our country is as strong as its foundation - Latvian. Several policies – education, language, youth and integration policies – aim at a society that feels belonging to its country, respects it, is proud of it, knows Latvian history, feels part of Latvian culture, freely administers Latvian as its mother tongue, if it is not its mother tongue, celebrates celebrations together and has a common system of values. Language is the core and identity of our nation. The Latvian language is our country's language, it is our wealth that we have inherited, and it is our duty to develop it, and it has been the foundation for our country. And today we cannot afford to treat our language and the country with, I say, a shopper's attitude, where material and personal benefits are the main ones. We heard from Mrs. Lazareva that young people from minorities will be forced to travel abroad. I understand that to Russia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Lazareva: “Not only!” ) No, they're not going to Russia, they're going to the United Kingdom because they're free to study Russian up to university. They're going to Germany because they can learn Russian. They will travel to all developed European countries to learn Russian. Right? Thus, Latvian is not a value (Dep. A.Morozov: “You said that!” )); English - yes, it is value; German - it is value. Unfortunately, such statements... Well, these statements are from its series - a failed country. And so on, and so on. Well, all we hear about Latvia in our neighboring country, the Kremlin's narratives. This attitude is simply unacceptable. And, Mr Morozov, how much will it cost? Well, I'm sorry, it's a shopkeeper's attitude, not a publicman's attitude. Honourable Members! Education plays a central role in the maintenance and strengthening of the national language. That is why we need to continue with the reforms that have been undertaken. The proposed changes to the Education Law and the General Education Law will also serve this purpose in order to increase the use of the Latvian language in general education. Implementation of education, youth and state language policy plays an important role in achieving common goals of a unified society in Latvia. And we will work consistently to achieve these goals. The public and international experts have welcomed the results achieved by the partial transition to the Latvian language learning process in minority schools introduced in 2004. The level of knowledge of Latvian language and the integration of minorities in the Latvian cultural and information space have improved. The competitiveness of young people from minorities in the labour market and the possibilities to get higher education in Latvian universities after completing secondary school has increased. And Mr Kirstein rightly pointed out that, unfortunately, we still have problems here. For, honourable Members, 20 percent of young people from minorities who do not know the language of the country - this is a very serious problem. It is a fifth of the new generation of minorities! They have problems integrating both in the labour market and in the education market, they have problems living in the Latvian Information Space due to the low language skills. The existing model of the bilateral education system is necessary, it needs to be developed in line with the requirements of the age, so that we can achieve the agreed objectives defined in the policy planning documents of national importance, such as the National Development Plan, the guidelines for education development. We want to achieve a consistent long-term education policy, which has a clearly defined objective and provides for successive steps to achieve it. And we need confidence that in a transparent time we will complete the education reform, which will ensure a uniform standard of education of Latvia as a national state, preserving the particularity and development of national cultures of citizens of different nationalities of Latvia and the maintenance and development of their mother tongue. And, honourable Members, the addressee of this reform is neither Mr Pimenova, nor Mr Morozov, nor Mrs Lazareva, nor Mr Cilevič, who had applied for a debate before me and wanted to speak after me, nor do he address this reform, neither Mr Dombrava, nor Shadurski, nor any of us. Let us listen to what those who are addressed to this reform say. Allow me to read a few quotes from the contest “What makes my people strong” for students. ‘ The Latvian language has been brightened with the care of intelligence in its early stages, enriched in folk songs and still sparking in literary works of writers and poets, and turned into youth use. It decorates the Indo-European language family and has a strong, beautiful, smart language. All people who come from other nations but live in Latvia would like to understand and learn this! As it is viable, our desire to use it properly and develop it is evident. It is necessary to make Latvian roots even stronger and branches more appealing. We go to contact through the language, because there are many people of different nationalities living in Latvia. My call to those who have not yet understood the role of Latvian - if under the Latvian sun, your current home, learn and speak in my national language. The sense of interaction is a sign of intelligence.” ( Evelyn Balode, General School of Rencel, 8th grade.) “ Words form our language. If it were not, the Latvian nation would not have been determined to exist. Our language contains us together, it has been one of the main pillars that has kept the Latvian people on the ground, not allowing alien boots to live deep in the ground. Our language is our treasure, which makes us rich, strong, convinced. This is the source of our strength, which we often have to fill up with all kinds of other words that are intruding into our people.” ( Jonathan Siders, Ventspils Secondary School No. 9) “ We speak Latvian. It is a very ancient and beautiful language. Our people have been caring for their language for centuries so that it does not die. The Latvian language is the source of our nation's power. I'm proud of my mother tongue. Knowing Latvian, I can learn the wisdom of our ancestors. I am and want to be a grain of strength for my people, so that Latvia becomes stronger and more beautiful and the Latvian people live even longer years.” ( Elīna Anna Bush, Primary Class 4 of Valmiera Pargauya.) Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U159	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Science. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U160	Dear colleagues, The style and level of the discussion on the proposed amendments to the education legislation is very disappointing to me. Both in society and here in the Saeima, these discussions are politicized, full of insults from opponents, and demonstrate a lack of knowledge about modern standards in the field of diversity management. Unfortunately, often on both sides. As soon as we heard a bright PR specialist's speech with quotations, slogans, stereotypes, but, sorry, Mr Shadursky, I would expect more from the Minister of Education and Science than from the slogans and how important mother tongue is to everyone. ( Interface: “Oi, Oi! ” ) Most importantly, some major changes are proposed. I want to see the justification. Why are these changes necessary? And how can it be that even six months ago both the Minister and other leading Latvian politicians claimed that the system of linguistic education works well, that children belonging to minorities successfully learn both the state language and the subject matter? That is what your Ministry has said in a number of answers to our questions, Mr Shadursky. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is plundering around the world with our achievements and generously offering other countries the experience of bilateral education, sharing our achievements. And it suddenly turns out that this system is no good and that it needs to be changed urgently. Why do responsible politicians publicise false news, claiming that graduates of schools implementing minority education programmes do not speak Latvian and therefore cannot join Latvian universities or find a job in Latvia? Where are the facts? Where are the statistics to show this? Colleagues, you really want to base on something or... I know one boy who had a problem. You know, I know several Latvian boys who learned in Latvian, who also have problems finding a job. The proponents of the draft law from this troupe argued that no country in Europe is funding education in minority languages. Mr Kirstein shared his view of what a minority was. Mr Kirstein, you have every right to hold any views, but the official institutions of the Council of Europe do not agree with you. I would simply recommend that you read the conclusions of the Consultative Council of the Council of Europe's General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities on Latvia and on what is considered to be minorities there. Well, you shouldn't argue about it. You just lived in the 19th century. I'm sorry. Such education exists, as I said today, in most European countries, where minorities live in a very significant number. This depends on a number of factors: the number of persons belonging to minorities, demand, opportunities and so on. I don't want to go into the details. I will simply list European countries where minority languages are used in full or in part as teaching languages in public schools. Member States of the Council of Europe - Albania, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Italy, Russia, Great Britain, Macedonia, Montenegro, Moldova, the Netherlands, Poland, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Ukraine, Hungary. I will not mention countries where there are several official languages. I will say a few individual words about Estonia and Lithuania - our neighbours. That's what you're referring to... In Lithuania, until recently, minority schools were fully employed in minority languages - Polish or Russian. A few years ago, Lithuania adopted amendments to its education laws and introduced a system of binary education that is very similar to ours. Dialogue with Poland is still ongoing - rather difficult dialogue on how this system of binary education will be implemented in Polish schools. Estonia does not change anything. There is the same system of binary education at the level of gymnasium (the latter are secondary schools according to Estonian terminology), the same proportion being 60 percent versus 40 percent. However, unlike us, the Estonian law on Gymnasiums provides that some of the subjects taught in minority language can be increased at the initiative of the municipality and with the consent of the government. At the end of last year, the Estonian Minister of Education announced that the government would allow four secondary schools, Gymnasiums, to increase the number of subjects taught in Russian, provided that the results of Estonian language learning are not reduced. So Estonia is going exactly the opposite: it is expanding the opportunities of a minority to take advantage of the level of secondary education. Is Russian schools really a Soviet heritage? You're telling me that? My grandmother studied at Riga Emil Depreo Gymnasium before World War I. Other relatives of mine studied in independent Latvia in Jewish schools, Russian schools, German schools, as well as Latvian schools. The 1919 law on the installation of minority schools is still being mentioned in all minority law textbooks as a model for ensuring minority rights in education. Unfortunately, the developers of the draft law completely ignore the very important document - conclusions and precepts expressed in the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 13 May 2005 (Mr Lazareva already quoted its Article 13 - on interpretation of the principle of legal equality). At the time, the Constitutional Court decided that the current proportion - 60 per cent against 40 per cent - was sufficiently taken into account. And in this case, the difference in treatment is sufficiently ensured. However, in order to change something, as the Constitutional Court has ruled, there must be a mechanism by which to identify changes in quality. Education quality should be actively monitored. And are there any mechanisms? Is the judgment enforced? It is binding on you, Ministry. No data on the impact on the quality of education were provided either in the draft law annotation or in the information report on the transition to training in the state language. The same raises serious doubts in itself about compliance of draft laws with Article 91 of the Satversme. The main and only argument in favour of the proposed amendments and reform is the reference to the study “Language situation in Latvia 2010-2015”. From there it is also the number - 20 percent, as if the Latvian-speaking graduates, mentioned both by Mr Kirštein and the Minister. But, colleagues, let's see what it is about research! On page 56 of this study, reference is made to the 2014 SKDS study “The feeling of belonging to Latvia”. There were 96 people in the 18-24 age group out of all respondents. So the only scientific basis is a self-assessment of 96 people four years ago! And that's what you call a scientific basis?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You call it quality control? Mr. Kirstein, a private school, mentioned it. Well, I think Mr Kirstein did not notice that this draft law in private schools also prohibits the use of minority languages. Colleagues! Now a few words about the practical side. I do not know how many graduates of minority schools have problems with national language. Apparently, yes, they are. But these are the same students who have problems with mathematics, physics and also with their native language - they are students with poor success. What will happen to them? I think the successful students will be over. The graduates of minority schools already speak three languages, and the graduates of Latvian schools speak two languages. Who benefits from it? And then colleagues from the National Association complain that Latvians are discriminated against in the labour market. But forgive me! Another language - it's not just another language, it's a much better thinking style, adaptive abilities and so on. All specialists know that very well. But with weak teachers, the situation will be completely different. If they deal with mathematical beaks in their mother tongue, they won't manage a language that they don't have. In this way, we will strengthen marginalisation. Teachers. Again, we hear that talk about millions. Colleagues! To work at school, you need to know the language perfectly, and any specialist knows it. It's not a university, it's not a university, it's not a public debate. To work with children, it is not enough simply to know the language well. And you really believe that teachers of pre-retirement age - and there are most of them - will learn Latvian perfectly perfect? They have today category 3, yes, fairly earned, and they can work in their mother tongue very effectively and prepare their children for high school as well, for 1st century and so on. So... But I think most of these teachers just leave school. I have no doubt that the money will be learned and the Latvian teachers will be good instead of working in schools where there is a lack of good Latvian teachers (by the way, in minority schools, as well as in Latvian schools), teaching teachers, of which an absolute majority will still not be able to work in the Latvian school. And who will replace these teachers? Do we have long teacher lines at schools, and teachers have attractive salaries? Well, the only option is those Latvian teachers who will be released from closed small rural schools. Colleagues from the ZZS! I want to draw your attention to this! Because, in fact, for you, the language reform is such a funny shell in which the Ministry tries to put on a completely different reform - the closure of small rural schools. Single debt. I heard a lot of things here, too. What do you think of a “single school”? As regards standards and content, the school has been unified since 2004. This is about something else. According to this draft law, the concept of “minor education programmes at secondary level” will simply disappear. So the claims about mystical objects to preserve the minority identity are purely declaratory. The Ministry itself acknowledges that there are no standards or specific mechanisms to ensure the teaching of these subjects. And, above all, what things are there? The Russian language is now also offered as the second foreign language and is quite demanded. What else? History of Russia? Seriously, Mrs. Straujuma? Do we have standards and textbooks? Let Mr Shadursky plan to use Russian standards. The truth is much worse. If the planned changes are implemented, we only have two possibilities: either Latvian school for Latvians and Latvian school minorities will appear - therefore, real segregation... The alternative is a single secondary school, where pupils study together, regardless of their mother tongue, as is currently the case at the 1st Gymnasium (and, by the way, a large part of the subjects are taught there in English). The position of the Ministry, which has been publicly expressed so far (already since Mr Greenblat took up his post), has been against this approach. Colleagues from the National Association! Do you support the situation that in the class there will be not 34, but half (and in some areas of Riga three quarters) children who are not Latvian in their mother tongue? Are you saying this honestly to your constituents? So on the practical side, I simply do not see how the Ministry is actually planning the result. I heard only political slogans and insults. And I do not really understand why the Minister of Education and Science is concerned, first and foremost, with the reaction of the President of the neighbouring country, as you publicly stated, Mr Shadurski (Interview.) , rather than the attitude of their fellow citizens, of those who will be directly affected by the proposed amendments. I, unlike you, am not possessed with Putin, I did not follow his reaction so closely, but it is absolutely clear to me that the radical narrowing of minority education would be the best gift to the welfare of Latvia. Proof of his allegations about the repression of minorities in Latvia. Colleagues! Democracy means freedom of choice. I also have great respect for my colleagues from the Unity Group and I will never dare them to suggest in what language they should provide for the training of their children. But why, colleagues, do you think you know better than I do, what language should my children learn? And the choice happens. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “It’s enough!” ) Currently in Latvia there are under 37 percent of citizens belonging to minorities. Well, school age level... That's a little less... Because of age structure... Schools implementing minority education programmes are attended by around 28 percent of all pupils. So there's a demand. Everyone has a choice. I believe that such complex issues, where decisions are irreversible...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U161	Mr. Cilevič! Your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U162	... should be dealt with through dialogue rather than imposing pressure. I call on you to vote against this draft law. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Upenieks, Cilinskis, Brigmanis, Dalder and Potapkins ask for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ; dep. A.Bērzins: “We can continue even until the morning!” ) There is no objection by Members and the parliamentary session will be held without interruption. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U164	Hello! I fully support the Shadursky-led bill. First. For us everything relating to minorities is, in my opinion, well solved. We have Lithuanian schools, Russian, Ukrainian, Jewish schools, and this issue, which concerns minority minority rights to study in their language, has been resolved. Secondly. I'm surprised to hear that... If I were a member of the public, I would support this bill, because in fact you can earn a voice. You can come and say, “You know, in Russia everyone is learning Russian!” You know, Putin... When asked the people of Tatarstan, what about Tatarstan, he said: “Russian is compulsory! Tatarstan – at best!” I think you should be “for” this bill. You would convince your constituents that we are also doing the same thing so that one country has one language. Another point is why I fully support Mr Shadursky. Let's finish the division of our country! It is already a small country, divided into languages - Russian and Latvian. . And my personal... Yes, we are now being treated like this: "Distribute and dominion!" I also do not understand the status of this non-citizen that exists in our country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “Good! Briefly, clearly.’ ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U165	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U166	Dear colleagues, You know, I think today we should work hard on amendments to the parliamentary order roll. It seems to me that draft laws containing the word "reform" or "reform" should not be presented and seen during the election year. Because all this discussion then turns into a pre-election headquarters. By the way, as paradoxical as it may be, Mr Shadurski has also spoken today, not as a minister of education and science, but as a candidate Member of the National Alliance. This is not about love for language, language and culture. It seems to me that none of the present can be accused of an abnormal attitude towards language and culture in general and against Latvian in particular. Maybe one another has a better or worse plan, but you can't say that we don't respect this language, that we don't love it. I have to say, I even remember my first Latvian language teacher, Cornelijs Ikaunienis, who, by the way, was the first Latvian language teacher, teacher, as well as television lessons, as soon as they appeared in Latvia. I have to say that I remember this teacher with the greatest affection and love she taught us to love the language. I went to Russian school. I studied at the school that celebrates my 150th anniversary this year. For all years the school taught its students in Russian, but gave good teaching and good knowledge in Latvian as well. It was Lemonosov’s gymnasium. During the first republic after the announcement of independence this school worked in Latvia, Riga. The Minister has not said any words about paying attention and money not only to teachers of minority schools, but to prepare teachers of Latvian language and literature in all schools, including schools with Latvian language training. This is a big problem today. Tens of years after the restoration of independence, this problem, as it were, remains a problem. This is a failure of the ministry and, I would say, a great sin of the ministry. Next thing I want to say. When it comes to reform, naturally, there is the sort of pre-election that I have heard today. For example, on Russian boots, a few months back on Russian shoulders and so on, and so on. It is not the case that we are trying to contrast one nationality with another. We are not talking about an integrated society, we are talking about a united society. To have the same goals, to have one official language, but also to have many languages that exist in Latvia and which were pride, by the way, at all times since the Republic of Latvia was established and exists. We are going to wait for 100th anniversary. That is our wealth: we have lived in peace all the time. We have never had the shocks associated with any national conflicts. Thank God! Thank God! Today it has already been said that one another is trying to use the ancient Roman principle of “Sharp and Rule!” . Rather than rule, try to get some benefit from its rule in some way. Let us, however, take these things seriously. I would, however, support the proposal that would require additional expertise for this law, because there really is something to talk about and think about. Because the objective of the reform is not just language, it is about setting up modern training centres, even development centres. This is about gathering the subjects. And what are those things? This is about methodology and methodology. There are a number of things here: teacher preparation problems, re-training, further education and other problems. This is a whole set of problems. We should not only talk, but also do something. I call for this time not to support this draft law even at first reading. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U167	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U168	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! I personally support the main idea of this project that there must finally be training in the national language at a good level, and I do not object to the fact that there is linguistic training. I am just wondering why, now, in the 28th year after the restoration of independence, we have this bilingual training at all. I'd understand one thing: if we didn't have a setup, spending three million, arrange pre-school education... The Ministry of Education and Science did not arrange, and then there... It was a long time ago... and if you're talking about 2011, when... You wanted the language of the country to start learning. I faced this question at the Ministry in 1997, when a department was set up which was responsible for the exam and the content of the studies and was led by excellent people just after the university had finished. And I had the argument then that at least this department should work for people who have completed a thorough practical work in all age groups in a regular general education school. At that time, they didn't listen. Do you know what they were addressing? I was faced with the fact that Russian flows to schools, minority schools were taken away from musical education, one hour, even though primary education - primary education! - were the same for all schools according to the standard. And I asked, “Why are you doing this?” We asked the directors and the head of this department as well. The answer was colossal: “They need to learn Latvian more strongly.” And then, here's the question. Could the honourable Minister say... Since 1997... You need to know its history... You can tell us which area in the Ministry is arranged in the form of projects? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Flying!” ) Well, practically nobody. Absolutely nobody! And here's the question that came out in my first speech, which also relates to this law. I asked: will those people who have hardly changed will be able to develop the new standard and programme for Latvia as a whole? I am absolutely sure that it will not be possible, and I also mentioned examples of why they will not. I am not satisfied with your answer: “We will work consistently.” You're not going to work with this team because you're... Now there are very big reservations in this area too. And my objection is this: 3.4 million of the national budget and European funds will be spent, in total about eight million, so that in four years (this information was given in the Commission) minority teachers will be trained to present mathematics and other subjects in schools with a Russian-language flow. In these schools, eight million four years of teaching are increasing their national language skills. I think if our educators had the same salary if our educators in schools had a wage of 2.5 thousand ‘on hand’, I can assure you that, within six months, everyone would teach the state language. Why am I worried that we are talking about this at all? Because the teacher is a flagship, the first-ranking man in the sense that he is the one who makes the future man. I am concerned that we are talking here about the reasons that, here, I want to teach my children in some other language and it is difficult for them to learn Latvian. I think if we had a school for these two... Five percent of the children's second educator, then we wouldn't talk this stupid thing about here today, the honourable minister. That's why I asked for the second reading... ( Milestones.) I would like to ask the Commission to understand at last that eight million should be directed towards the salaries of teachers so that there is competition and that the smartest teachers who have now moved and working in other areas earn money, return to school and work normally. I'd like to say that there's no one thing in here. I will also conclude with this, honourable colleagues! I understand you don't like much. I will finally quote one beautiful quote, but then. So, in an annotation of this draft law, we read: 2019-2020. During the school year, the 9th grade will be conducted in the national language. And then, with 2020/2021. the school year, they will begin to study Latvian in secondary schools. It is written here that in 2022 Latvian will have to pass high school exams. But I have a very simple question now. If Ministry officials are preparing an eight million project in parallel (there by hours and days it is arranged what anyone will learn), they have every right to say that they will only be able to present their subject by 2022... I think we need to review this issue. And the other. We need to be more creative, we need to be more responsible before we make any decisions about the comprehensive training of individuals. And now I'm going to read a quote. I would be very happy if you understood what I will read to you, because dialogue can only develop when the other understands what the first is talking about. This book - very short, little - contains 80 scientists from the world... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Dr. Zaķis: “Seven minutes is left. Get in there! Read from page 1!’ ) I carefully read all the authors, there is no doctor of the Ministry of Education and Science with my ideas... This book is for many – parents, students, students, educational staff. It provides answers to the current question of how best to develop the child’s intellectual ability, higher thinking skills and thus to improve language knowledge and mathematics. And if we're talking here... And here, opponents, I'm sorry I can't agree to you one hundred percent... The will of everything! It is all about saying that I have to do it for myself. And if you understand that, then we wouldn't have such a discussion, where each one speaks for 15 minutes. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U169	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U170	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia supports the transition to national language at all levels of education. For my part, I would like to say that it should really be done in a reasonable way and without creating additional conflicts, regardless of the language of a nation whose people are represented. And at first, I personally had concerns about the progress of this bill in the Saeima, because it seemed: now it will pull back to autumn again, and in mid-September again, the debate at third reading is as long as today on every proposal... And then, of course, at least two parties in the Saeima should almost not spend a cent at all, advertising would be ensured. As far as I can see, the deadline for the second reading was set five days if I am not wrong; this means that the coalition has agreed to move this bill quickly, decisively. All right! That's what you're saying, dragged forward! Good luck! However, for my part, I would like to make some comments and perhaps some concerns about the process which has been carried out so far and also about the way forward. First of all, it is about moving this process forward. And specifically about Mr. Shadursky's communication. We certainly remember that there was once Mr Kiel in his ministerial position, who was also accused of communication problems, that he was unable to explain, tell and bring this process to the end of good ideas to the public. As far as I can see, also in the new competences... In the education system, communication has become one of such important postulates. And I really hope that our children and future ministers will be able to communicate better than Mr Shadursky's. All the more so if, for example... There is an example: if a municipality, Mr Shadursky, has to close a school (and unfortunately many municipalities have had to make such a painful decision!) then the head of the municipality or the responsible person goes to their school, speaks the situation, says, in the table of various solutions and they try together to find a solution and answer questions - yes, painful questions. And in the end, it ensures that everyone understands their situation better and a final decision is reached together. Mr. Shadursky, it looks like not the first time he uses such a shock communication principle - to provoke: “Here you! That's it! I offer you this!” And then... Yes, he has so far made some concessions. And so he's trying to show that there's some compromise and there's some concessions. In my opinion, this is not the best way - especially as I said, the Minister of Education and Science. For consultation with minority associations and other representatives. As far as I understand, the draft law indicates that the Consultative Council on Minorities Education has accepted the progress of this draft law. That makes me happy, because I initially had missed this information, to be honest. But I think it would be even better for those Members of the Saeima who will today vote in favour of this draft law at first reading if there were more information about other minorities than the Russian-speaking ones who... I don't know, Ukrainian, Lithuanian, Polish or anything else... Who would say: “It’s all right! We're familiar with the bill! We understand the common goal towards a cohesive society, and we support it!" I think that this would only contribute to a truly common understanding and a common goal. Well, if it comes to the fact that this process is still mostly the result of two parties... I think SASKAN is very happy with Mr. Shadursky's actions. Because - what do you wonder about the big rating of SAID, if indeed the Minister himself does everything to make 30 percent of Latvian society think Shadurskis is not really... I'm just... isn't it at all, as you say, in your mind? And, of course, both Russian children's parents... Both children's parents and teachers, who are not aware of the end of the competence story, and all others who are not satisfied with the minister's communication competence, can to a large extent become the voters of the UN. This objective - a unified society - in my opinion is not fully achieved at the moment, and here I have to agree with one of the politicians of the SASCAN party who said that it looks like it is, at least for the time being, that the speed of this draft law will bring together not the whole of Latvia, but two of its groups for some time. In other words, Latvians will unite and, of course, Russian-speaking people will unite. To say, we will show them, those indigenous people, that we are still standing up for our Russian language and so on, and so on. What does that mean? We hope, however, that in 20 years' time or even more in the future, we will have a united society? I think we shouldn't go out of the morning, as we say, soap and then hope that gradually, all this will be forgotten, that other things will come and forget, and that, somehow, those who are against it will also digest. I really have to agree with what Mr Platoper said. If there are any resources for training, perhaps they should really be invested more in teachers' salaries, because at the moment it happens that those teachers who have so far (as many years) been unable to learn Latvian at a sufficiently high level are placed in a privileged situation. They will be provided with training. Please, just learn! We will provide funding. But the teacher who so far has also invested his own money to stay in the education system and so on, I think at some point he may feel a little bit like a fool. For, you see, when he was a patriot, he invested his resources in language learning, but now someone else waiting will be in a better situation. Therefore, as one of the solutions, I think it would really be that these funds would be more invested in raising teachers' salaries, in providing high-quality education and, forgivably, in high-quality final products. I will try to make it more correct: that really the student who completes the 12th grade knows the Latvian language well, that he is loyal to the Latvian state, and so on, and so on. All right, let's finish this topic. Let's go. Now the Minister says he wants to get the child out of the trap. Okay. But it seems to me that some children are under the influence of both teachers and parents, who will be insane, on the contrary! - will be further pushed into this transhipment information space. And that, I think, is a risk. At present many Latvian families and also mixed families are unfortunately spoken Russian. Why? There are very many points, many factors, and, believe me, the issue of education in schools in the binary system is not at all the most urgent. I'll tell you very briefly about my class too. Four students from the Russian flow came to me at grade 10. Yes, they were at first hard to get involved in the Latvian learning process. However, the other classmates treated them with respect, we respected their rights, we tried to help them, and in the end, when they finished the 12th grade, Latvia gained four new citizens and some of them even better knew Latvian literary grammar standards than I did. Nice. Maybe it's just coincidences and statistics in one school, but three of these four students really don't live in Latvia anymore. One lives in Germany, one lives in England, and one lives in New Zealand. This means that at other levels we have not ensured a process of integration or the consolidation of society. And I personally, of course, feel very sorry about that. And as at the same time... When Mr Šadurski met with municipalities in Latgale Planning Region, the leaders of several municipalities confirmed that this is not a problem in rural schools, including border schools. Everywhere they fought for the students as much as they could, and most of the small schools do already have one flow – the Latvian flow. And they fight as they can. Yes, the problem could be with big cities such as Riga. But it should not be said that there are its biggest problems at the border. No, in the border, you know, really patriotic people live. I am also concerned that the Minister says: here, 80 percent of these children, who are representatives of minorities, know Latvian well, there are no problems with them, there are only 20 percent of them... This means that because of only 20 percent, we will put it under a hammer and under a axe, and under pressure all those 100 percent of young people. I think it's... I have tried to point out in my previous speech that this will not lead to a positive attitude towards the Latvian language, but rather a positive attitude towards the Minister. And it will be a new weapon for the media to rinse the brain with its information. ( Milestones.) And finally, two more things I want to mention. Mr Šadurskis said that Latvia is as strong as its foundation - Latvian. And I can add - Latvian is as strong as the weakest part of the Latvian language - Latgale Latvian or Latgale. In fact, now the law (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) It has been delegated that the state must ensure the preservation, protection and development of this tradition of Latvian language, but the Ministry does nothing in essence. And I think that's a two-way situation. In particular, the Minister says: “Let’s strengthen the Latvian language! Let's close the Russian school." , but at the same time does nothing to strengthen one, in my opinion, important part of the Latvian language. Eight percent of the Latvian population use this type of Latvian language. But... Here I have to turn to the Members of the Group SASKĀJS: in essence, Latgale Latvian users can at present only touch you, because in the field of education you have much greater opportunities as you can pass your mother tongue on to your offspring - children, so that they learn both language and cultural traditions, literature and so on. Because the ministry tells us: “You can do this optionally, on a voluntary basis. If you want to, pay yourself.’ And finally. If we really want to strengthen the Latvian language, the Latvian literary language, the standard language, then... I would like to remind you once again that the Law on State Language provides that the Cabinet of Ministers confirms the norms of Latvian literary language. When I ask the Ministry of Justice to show that the Cabinet of Ministers has done so, the Cabinet of Ministers was able to present only two regulations relating to it. The ones were in connection with the spelling of a special name - nice! - and the other was about the writing of the “euro”. And those regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have already lost their strength, of course. For the rest, the delegation is to the State Language Centre. Unfortunately, however, the State Language Centre has not managed to arrange the norms of Latvian literary language, because... It's simple - I'll ask you where you can get acquainted with Latvian, literary language, alphabet. Please give me a legislative act where I can get to know it! For example, at the meeting of the Latvian State Satversme, the whole stenogram was made in gothic writing. If I were now to draw up a document in the Goths writing and submit it to the Saeima Bureau, would I accept it? Probably not. That is why I am calling for real work to be done to strengthen the Latvian language and to do it consistently at all levels, not just to show up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U171	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U172	Yeah. I've been talking for the second time, so I'm not talking for a long time, colleagues! It's good that Mr Shadursky will address you after me. I am always touched by his rhetoric, which I well remember from the times when he led the budget and financial (tax) commission of the Saeima. At one time and in one place, in an annotation of the bill, he competes for the fact that 20 percent of young people of minorities speak weakly in Latvian. This is when he wants to prove that it is necessary to fully switch to Latvian or at least secondary school. In another place, he or at least those who wrote this annotation, which he has signed, praises the fact that, behold, young people of minorities know Latvian so well that only seven percent use minority language when they pass exams and state tests at school. So I call on the Minister: please choose whether or not minority young people can speak well in Latvian or not. Either one or the other. It's just about history. I always listen carefully to the reflections made by Alexander Kirštein, an educated person and an erudite in the field of history. That is why I want to just continue what he started to talk about today, and to remind once again one event in the history of Latvia. More recently, in the early 1990s, the Latvian People's Front supported the right of national minorities to comprehensive secondary education in their mother tongue and strengthened this promise in its second programme in 1990, and reiterated it again when it came to power in the elections of the same year. I think that this context is very important. We will not understand what is happening in politics if we forget how our renewed independence was created at the end of the last century. If we forget that, we will simply have to repeat the same mistakes that we have already made.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U173	Name of Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Shadurskis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U174	Honourable Members! I'm going to try some remarks, some questions to answer - in reverse order, as they have come. Mr. Pimenova, you're a smart man! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “But cunning!” ) But why do you confuse two obviously different things? If 20 percent of school-age young people do not understand Latvian well and seven, as you said, or if slightly more than seven percent of secondary school graduates choose to pass an exam in Latvian, even though it would be possible to write answers in Russian... In one case it is about all young people - not everyone is studying in high school - in the other case it is about high school students. Well, there's no contradiction here! It seemed very interesting to me what Mr. Viļuma said (Dep. A.Bērzins: “He always says interesting!” ) that the reform will not create a positive attitude towards the Latvian language. You know, we are reforming the entire educational content. Why has no one told me that in-depth math learning will divide society (Interface: “It will divide society mathematically!” ) - those who love mathematics and those who don't?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Physical learning, chemistry, history, geography, music... Why always talk about the division of society only when it comes to Latvian?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So they need mathematics, physics, music, everything. But the Latvian language is a decoration: now it doesn't matter, it will divide society! Dear people! I would refer to the ancient Bible story of 40 years in the wilderness to get rid of the slave complex when leaving Egypt. Dear friends! If we had carried out these absolutely necessary reforms, we would have gone away for 27 years from these necessary 40 years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “We have 13 years left!” ) And what colleagues here have talked about is that there will be an increase in the number of voters or something else... Well, well... Oh, I can't say that! God walk with it! ( Milestones.) If we had carried out these reforms, we would not have voted on an ethnic basis in the Saeima elections for 27 years. Well, let it be a little better for a while! Now it's going to be destroyed again! Because then already (Minimum of the fraction: “Unit will perish faster!” ) Children will be able to read in Latvian and not feed on newspapers or portals where God’s signs are written about our reform, our country and everything else. Yes, I understand very well that during the transition period there will be difficulties, but what I said... Who was it? Mr Dolgopolov... that in order to be a united society, common goals, so that society does not divide into two classes of antagonism, our children must learn separately... How can they have the same goals, the same perception, and the same treatment of the country when they learn separately? ( Milestones.) And now a little bit about what the Ministry has done and plans to do. I think Mr Viļuma talked about other ethnic groups - Poles, Ukrainians. In the Embassy of Poland we have had a very good meeting with directors of all Polish schools in Latvia - full support for the reform! We have had a conversation at the Ukrainian secondary school when the Ukrainian Minister of Education visited Latvia. Full support for reform! Yes, Director of the Polish Secondary School of Riga Ita Kozakevičs... Well, so far there are Polish educators working there with the support of the Polish Embassy, and also our educators... And so far in this school, the inter-language, or working language, was Russian at the teaching sessions. They will now have all the talks in the school, either in Latvian or in Polish. Then a few more things about... Yes, Mr Cilevičs is a huge defender of human rights, and thank him for that. And he talked about the right of choice. Yes, the right of choice must be - and this reform retains the right of choice for everyone! - But the choice will never be absolute. And, dear colleagues, this country we live in is called Latvia. And we have the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia with its whole preamble, and we have the National Development Plan of Latvia and other documents regulating development. But I often get the impression from the speeches of the opponents of this reform that there is an extraterritorial formation here, that it is not a state that... Well, yeah... And more about what has been done in the context of the reform. Last year, we put more than 30 million teachers on salaries. We are doing our utmost to make the teaching profession more attractive in material terms. Eight... Well, less than eight million will be invested over a few years in further education for teachers. Yes, it can be said that those who know Latvian at the highest level and who can deliver their subject perfectly in Latvian in terms of methodology - yes, they will not benefit from these funds. But in the end, we need to invest so that our societies can work and live together. And this money will really pay off. Further strengthening of the attractiveness of the teaching profession. Yes, we have a timetable for increasing the salaries of educators, which we will consistently implement. And we are working very hard with university teaching programmes so that young teachers who come to replace pre-retirement and pension-age educators with natural retirement are perfectly prepared, ready to work according to the new standard of education, and there are no problems in language. If I forgot to say something, I'm sorry, because the third time you can't climb the trigger. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U175	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U176	Dear colleagues, I'm going to try to be very brief. Mr. Shadursky! I think you've caught that delicious cake from the table. You have caught the most delicious cake from the table that you are currently eating with great pleasure before the elections. Because all the other things haven't worked for you. I'm sorry. (Applause) If we are talking about decoration, Mr Shadursky, about the use of Latvian as decoration, then, unfortunately, I have to say that this value, which is common to all of us, obviously, you are unfortunately using for the sake of your political struggle. If we talk about what you have done in terms of strengthening the Latvian language, then I have a small reservation for you. For more time, your constituents have been reminded. Unfortunately, when you go to the voters, your bag will be over. This bag of gift is going to be through. Because by putting this education reform at one end in this bag, teaching in Latvian will fall through the hole all the Latvian language out. And I say this to you because the new teaching content, which is currently being worked for by the Ministry of Education and Science and which is being met by all non-governmental organisations, is really the one that will destroy the Latvian language. Because Latvian identity and belonging to the Latvian cultural space will not be present in this teaching content. You will raise global citizens, Mr Shadursky. So if you want to strengthen the Latvian language, you should start with the content of the learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U177	The name to Member Boris Cilevič, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U178	My lords! Such a radical break in the policy of minorities so far, the elimination of such a free cultural development, we consider to be intolerant, we consider to be a fatal step from which to be warned. We are therefore opposed at all to the transfer of these projects to the Commission. The Minister pointed to the need to create better relations between our different nationalities among young people by means of a joint school measure. My lords! The fact that our youth lives so divided is of great concern to us too. We always think about how to achieve better relations. One thing is certain: such a better relationship cannot be achieved by you... ( The debate is on the deposit.) V. Calnozole. It is a drug for displeasure.) that you deprive us of the right to a school in the mother's language and start a dispensation. Right because we want peace, we are against these draft laws. Colleagues, as you understand, this is a quote. Nothing is new in this world. Almost exactly 85 years ago, on February 3, 1933, the Saeima held very similar discussions. Atis Ķeniņš, then Minister of Education, drafted very similar draft laws, and the government unanimously supported them. What I quote is a passage from Paul Shymann's speech. This is the same Pauls Šimanis, about whom our honourable President, Mrs Mūrniece, when speaking about opening a book about Šimans, said that Šimanis is an example of loyalty to Latvia. Colleagues, minority languages are not an anomaly in Latvia. Minorities are an integral part of Latvia. It was historical. It's the real Latvia. And I would simply name the result of the vote that was then 85 years ago. Amendments were put to the vote by 25 Members, against -64, abstained -2. And there was no solution to the secondary education of minorities. It happened later. It was started by Ulmanis after the coup in 1934. This minority education was completely abolished by the Soviet regime, with the support of the Latvian People's Front in the late 1980s these minority schools were gradually restored. And a lot has been achieved. Not only Polish and Lithuanian schools, but also several Russian schools now restore the traditions of minority schools that existed here during the Latvian Free State. Colleagues! Do you really want to continue with the democratic traditions of Latvia or are you about Latvia, where, as the Minister described here, there is complete uniformity, complete uniformity, everyone speaks the same language? Maybe everyone thinks the same? So that you don't want to be a party, there's no other party, there's only your party? So, colleagues, the choice is yours. You can vote in the way the Members of the democratic Latvian Saeima voted, and you can also vote in the way they were adopted, for example, in the Supreme Council of the USSR. Or, as the Russian Parliament votes, as the executive has proposed, Members unanimously confirm. So, colleagues, the choice is yours. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U179	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U180	Why do I think that this draft law, Shadurski, is urgently needed? Because one and a half years ago, my wife was employed at the cafe by the office of officemen, Dep. A. Kaimiņš: “ Oh, my wife! That's right!' ) of the five people who applied to work as an official only one mastered Latvian perfectly. The rest of the room could not be laid.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U181	Name to Member Rihard Cole. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U182	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, We really have a long and wide-ranging debate here on this issue, and it is clear that one aspect has been highlighted, which is also pointed out by the representatives of the SAID, by minorities. I don't know if you're following... I understand you need the interests of the Russian-speaking minority group to represent and defend. And they are represented on the National Minorities Advisory Council. The National Minorities Advisory Council is represented by all minorities and last year the National Minorities Advisory Council conceptually supported the amendments promoted by the Ministry of Education and Science. I simply do not understand this pointless discussion. These amendments are also supported by minorities. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U183	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. You could have applied in time. The debate is closed. On behalf of the Commission, Mrs Straujuma, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U184	Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say to my colleagues who have spoken, some of the things that have been dealt with by the Commission. First. Teachers' training will take place in parallel to a gradual transition to Latvian at secondary level and changes in binary education. Secondly. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister informed about the timetable for raising teachers' salaries. Go on. Here Members have already mentioned statistics. In the meeting of the committee we were informed that in 2016, 57 percent of minority adults in Latvian spoke moderately or weakly, or did not speak at all. ( Intercretion: ‘ Well, lied! ’ ) Relatively much better, as Members have already mentioned... Among young people, 22 percent are not speaking. ( Internouncing call.) There is progress, but 22 percent - that, I think, is not enough, it is bad. And we had many discussions in the Commission about the content of the studies. And I want to remind you, Members, that the values will be included, as the representatives of the ministry promised, both patriotism and the understanding of national identity. All its values will be included. Dear Members, On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U185	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on General Education". Please vote mode! Please the result!... Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 22, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals. l.Storage. The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 27 February. Please turn on the microphone for Igor Pimenov!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U186	I propose a deadline of 22 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U187	March 22th? So we must vote first on the next proposal. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for the submission of proposals on 22 March 2018. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported. The deadline set by the Commission for the submission of proposals remains therefore valid, on 27 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U188	Colleagues! We have already discussed the actual two draft laws, but obviously... ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U189	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U190	Yeah, what do you want to do? It's a tough day, colleagues! But we have chosen the order of business, and now we continue to work. I am grateful that so much attention has been paid to this issue. We are here for nothing until the evening! Let's live. Let's see. I would, however, like to stick to some of the legislative episodes and to their justification in an annotation. Private schools. The amendments to the Education Act encourage the government to put an end to schooling in private schools in minority languages and to continue to teach private schools only in public language. This is a clear violation of Latvia's international obligations. Latvia signed the European Parliament Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. Article 13 states: “The Parties undertake, within the framework of their education systems, to recognise that persons belonging to national minorities are entitled to set up and run private educational and training institutions.” Until now, no one has even tried to doubt that this article establishes the right of persons belonging to minorities to teach children in their mother tongue in private schools. This is what the Consultative Committee of the Council of Europe concluded in its 2008 report on the implementation of the Convention in Latvia. ‘ The Advisory Committee welcomes the fact that the state and municipality provide funding for private minority schools. However, the Committee is concerned about the tendency to introduce mandatory use of the Latvian language in private education institutions and believes that the argument put forward by public authorities to support the measures envisaged, namely public grants, is insufficient to justify such intervention in the private sphere. Although it is legitimate that minority private general and vocational education institutions are monitored to ensure compliance with the uniform standards of education laid down in legislation for the entire education system, it is also important, as stated in the interpretative report of the Framework Convention, that these rules are based on objective criteria and comply with the principle of non-discrimination. Go on. Watch out! ‘ The Advisory Committee therefore urges national authorities to avoid any legislative means that violate the right of persons belonging to minorities to set up and manage their general and vocational education institutions in accordance with Article 13 of the General Convention. The Commission also considers that such measures should not hinder the efforts of minorities to meet their needs through a private education system." Comments are redundant! I agree that Latvia is waiting for an event-rich relationship with international organisations in the future, if the restriction contained in the draft law will be implemented. More. What are the arguments behind the government's drive to change minority education? Some are amusing, others are misleading. According to the report, it is self-confident that research shows that most of Latvia's population – about 70 percent – believes that learning of Latvian subjects should start as soon as possible in kindergarten and primary school. Question: "But what percentage of minorities think the same way, that is, that learning in Latvian subjects should start as soon as possible - in kindergarten or primary school? Do they have such a demand, and how great is that demand? Annotation of the draft law presented by the Government states that the model of the binary education system introduced in 2004 was planned as a transitional period. They're just bullshits! That's not true! I understand that in 1998 and 1999, Mr. Šadurskis had not yet worked in the field of organisation of education, but had a teaching staff, as far as I remember, at the Riga Technical University. But there are advisors who can tell him... At the same time, as a representative of a public organisation, I attended a series of seminars organised by the Ministry of Education and Science involving representatives of the public in the decision-making process. The so-called transition model (transit model) was chosen from all models offered by international experts. The name of the model meant that it was a transitional period. The transition model differs with the fact that the intensity of learning Latvian is increasing in each of the next classes. Therefore, a student from a minority family who joined first class without having to speak Latvian before approaching 12th grade speaks Latvian better. This leads to a shift of learning from one language to another. Therefore, this model is referred to as a transitional model. And after the school is finished, the young person is able to continue teaching at the university in Latvian. And then. Public participation in the discussion and approval of these amendments. Section 6 of the Opinion refers to the fact that the proposals prepared by the Ministry for the transition to Latvian-language studies in secondary school were discussed at the Consultative Council on Minorities in Education last November 10. However, the members of the Council show that there was no vote on the support, although it was proposed. All this suggests that the message that the changes were supported by the Council is false. And my last remark. Among the brutal statements about the intensity of Latvia's compliance with international commitments, the fact has disappeared that by implementing the reduction in the use of minority languages, Latvia ignores the requirements of Article 14 of the Convention and violates the requirements of Article 13 on the need to provide training in minority languages in private educational institutions. I would like to remind you of this, and take this into account in the decision on the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U191	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U192	Honourable Members! Limited explanation for private education institutions. As I listened from the side, it seemed that either Mr. Pimenov had not fully understood whether... Well, no, the other option that he deliberately deceives you, I don't allow. Let us start by saying that no one is going to close or eliminate private minority education institutions. They will be able to continue working peacefully according to our education standard. Private education... I don't like it, but I often talk about education. For me, the service is that agreed between the service provider and the recipient. And if there's nothing illegal, immoral, or something bad, then everything's okay. Education, however, is a public function that can be implemented by public institutions, local authorities or private institutions that are licensed, accredited and continuously controlled by the State Education Quality Service during the education process. And if the State has delegated or granted the right to perform this function to private educational institutions meeting certain requirements, then these requirements must still be maintained. And these requirements are the common standard. By adopting these amendments to the law, the primary school, which is compulsory for us, in the first six classes - 50 per cent in the state language, perfectly preserving the language of the minority. Classes 7-9 - 80 and 20 percent. Secondary education in national language, of course, while retaining the possibility of presenting certain modules - subjects related to ethnic language, culture and integration - in minority language. Thus, private education institutions will be able to continue to function peacefully according to our standard. Moreover, if we are talking about non-formal education, there is an absolutely free choice of language and that really is a service. And, of course, the proper qualifications put in place are excellent opportunities to formalise non-formal education and obtain an educational document on it. So, honourable colleagues, I think Mr. Pimenova is a little overstated. And, for example, when it comes to qualification requirements for educators, private education institutions, just as in municipal education institutions, regardless of minority or non-national education programmes, the educator should also know the state language at the highest level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U193	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Subtotal: “This is not about OIC! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U194	Colleagues! There is no more important issue for our people, for our country, how to create an appropriate education system that can help us to build more responsive and creative people here. Unfortunately, the existing education system does not provide this. If the barrack that is remains, then in principle we lead our country, our people to destruction. That is obvious. So when you started these reforms, Mr Shadursky, on education of competences, on how to optimise the school network, I kept my thumbs for you all the time. And I even allowed myself to say openly that this man, who can really arrange our education system to create education that meets the global challenges here, and to ensure that our people are competitive in the world... then he should put a monument. Where the Lenin monument stood, there should be a monument of Šadurskis if Shadurskis did. ( Minister of Education and Science K. Šadurskis said: “But maybe I will live a little more! ” ) But, you see, then I realized that you were really going to live, and maybe you were going to live well. That is why, as I understand, these reforms have been thrown aside. Or, let us say, if there is nothing meaningful up to the elections, we should have made another reform. And this other reform... it must be understood that it has a more political context than a concern for Latvian. This has always been the case when the elections are approaching. Unfortunately, before the elections, instead of thinking about the country, everyone must think about their particular place. If that's not the case, Mr. Shadursky, come and tell me. Tell us how you are actually going to implement this reform - what you are now offering. Because the main concern and concern of the Russian-speaking people is that, as a result of this reform... they are not already against the Latvian language, and in fact they all know that language. There's no problem. The main concern for these Russian-speaking people is for their children that they will not be able to get high-quality education due to this reform, because, look, there are no teachers. Come here and tell them how these teachers are, then - there will be these teachers who will be able to teach these schools, where there will now be physics, chemistry should be taught in Latvian? They can teach? Because it is clear that those teachers who now teach them... many will not be able to do so in Latvian. And that's the main concern! Here's what's worried about, and what's going on in the roast, as it's called in the jar. Russian-speaking people worry that this reform will make their children uncompetitive in this country and will be forced to go somewhere else to look for work; they will simply not be able to learn these items normally, because there will be no teachers. Here we go! It is obvious that it is not meant to make Latvian society more united, so that really Latvian language can play an increasingly important role in the life of every citizen. On the contrary! And in fact, the calculation is very refined, as it has always been before the elections. That is, in some way, to divide society, knowing that such a reform will cause legitimate concern to the Russian-speaking people and will be the political forces that will use it. And, of course, as it has always been, it's a calculation that the WELFARE will also try to take part in it. In this way, it could radicalize... and to ensure that society is as divided as possible and that it is the same as it has been. And all this irresponsibleness, these citadels, the purchase of trains, now the purchase of Conexus, the OIC scandal - all this could go on and someone could live well. This is the real objective that now needs this education reform. It's a pity that you've given up. I had hoped that we would have one minister who would fully fulfill what he could really do for his country, for the benefit of his people. I am very disappointed with you, Mr. Shadursky! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U195	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U196	When reading the law, I am obliged to understand the law literally, not to insane or understand it. The draft law that we are now looking at reads as follows: “In private education, general education and vocational education in primary and secondary education is acquired in the state language.” How can we understand this if we remember that the standard, which is now described in both laws, as well as in the General Education Law, does not actually lay down the norms of minority education, or the requirements at the general secondary level in general? It remains possible to include the language of minorities or the content of studies relating to the culture of minorities. Where can you insert it - forgive me for this name! - that plan, a week plan, which is feasible in schools, including private schools? Maybe only in place of the second foreign language? Maybe. However, this is not a law. That's an opportunity. It's not a guarantee. That's a story. But I am talking about the fact that no one can intervene in private education to simply determine the extent to which minority languages can be implemented in the existing education system. This does not mean that the possibility of learning Latvian would be less for those students who study in private schools, as well as for those who are funded from public or municipal budgets. No way. I want to repeat what I said, one sentence. Strengthening Latvian is not contrary to minority rights in education, therefore any reforms in minority education should take into account the interests of all persons and the right to education. These interests have not been identified in the preparation of this ambitious project. This is the main weakness of the whole idea. That is what I want to say, and I would like to draw your attention to it, colleagues, when you vote in favour of this particular draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U197	Name to Member Andris... (All those who have applied for a debate refuse. Depp. A.Kamiņš: “No matter what!” ) All right. I closed the debate. (Applause) Members who had applied did not want to debate any more. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U198	No, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U199	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U200	The deadline for the submission of proposals was set by the Commission on 27 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U201	Please turn on the microphone for Igor Pimenov! There is a proposal to set a deadline for the submission of proposals on 22 March this year. So we must vote first on the next proposal. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for the submission of proposals on 22 March 2018. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. As a result, the deadline set by the Commission for the submission of proposals remains in force on 27 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U202	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” for the second reading and has not received any proposal. I therefore call on you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U203	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U204	The Commission is asking for 1 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U205	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 1 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Ivars Laisvers.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U206	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission reviewed and supported for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No 1136/Lp12). This draft law is related to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data” already discussed today (No 1135/Lp12). The draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” provides for administrative responsibility for non-transfer of aircraft passenger data specified in regulatory enactments, incomplete or incorrect data transmission, as well as includes a reference to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of passenger data registers for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crimes. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U207	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U208	I invite you to submit your proposals for second reading by 13 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U209	March 13, right?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U210	Yeah, by March 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U211	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U212	Good evening, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”. Nine proposals were received for the second reading. I will speak together on the first two proposals. I will tell you the reasons for the committee's vote. The panel held several meetings to discuss these proposals, and several organisations were invited, which also came and explained their position - the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Centre for the Coordination of Supermarkets, the Bank of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance and other organisations. The Commission has received a number of opinions on these proposals, one of which - the opinion of the Parliamentary Legal Office - was about why they cannot be supported... And as explained above, the protection of personal data in Latvia is regulated not only by Article 96 of the Satversme, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and other laws, but also by the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data and the Regulations of the European Parliament and the Council. All these issues have been examined and received opinions (including from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which opposed these proposals), and the Commission decided not to support the first two proposals, namely Member Dalder's proposals. I call on the Commission not to support proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U213	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U214	Colleagues! My proposal... This specific proposal relates to the fact that we have already voted in favour of these rules in this law. Unfortunately, as often happens, all the problems have not been noticed in a hurry. Here we are talking about the fact that, however, employees - those working in the Bank of Latvia, as well as employees of educational institutions - should also be made public. I think, however, that we have already raised this issue in principle. I call for my proposal to be supported so that it does not go long anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U215	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U216	Absolute support for this proposal! Absolutely! We are talking about the fact that taxpayers, citizens of the state, pay salaries for officials - whether it is an educational institution or an employee of the Bank of Latvia. We need to know how much money he makes. So I ask you to support this proposal. We're... Please... What's going on here? What did you call it, Valaini? The obsessor co-ordination centre has to be hard in itself at all... We've got to close it! There were some institutions with which it has been coordinated... ( Internouncing call.) That's all wrong! In any case, someone has forgotten the pen here. Come get it! And support this, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U217	On the proposal, Mr. Neighbour! I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? No, no! Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Dalder's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 20, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U218	Two more. - Member Dalder's proposal. A similar motivation. The Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U219	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U220	Thank you for your support for Amendment 1. The proposal concerns state and municipal capital companies, 100 percent of which belongs to the public... We know that many state functions in Latvia are implemented through capital companies, so that there is equal treatment between state institutions and capital companies, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U221	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U222	It should be said that this proposal was also opposed by operators' organisations. And the commission unanimously rejected. I call on you to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U223	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Dalder's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 23, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U224	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U226	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U228	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U230	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U231	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U232	Proposal No 7. This is also partly supported by proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U233	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U234	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U236	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U238	I therefore call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U239	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U240	March 8, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U241	Thank you. Proposals are due by 8 March this year. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” (No 1109/Lp12) until 9 March 2018.” Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” (No 1109/Lp12) until 9 March 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Transport Services” (No 1137/Lp12)”. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the change of the commission for the draft law “Amendments to Public Transport Services Law” (No 1137/Lp12)”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the decision was taken. The agenda of the sitting was examined. This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of any adjustments to remuneration during the financial year. I took note of Mr Zariņa, Mr Orlova, Mr Urbanoviča, Mr Andrejs Klementyev and Mr Morozov's question to the Minister for Economics, Mr Arvil Asheraden, about the avoidance of the EM in terms of providing information on the real task of the "control group" and its composition and the subject of the checks to be carried out." The question is urgent. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. On the question of Member Pimenova, Potapkina, Mirska, Cilevičs and Ribakov, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis, about international treaties of the Republic of Latvia in the field of education. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. On the question of Member Morozova, Potapkin, Rubika, Orlova and Ribakov, acting Minister for Health, Maris Kučinskis, about funding for Daugavpils Regional Hospital. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question to the Member Arvilas Asheradens, the Minister for Economic Affairs, Zarina, Morozova, Orlova, Urbanovich and Pimenov, about the inspection of subsidised power plants by the Ministry of Economics, their objectivity and their relevance to the public interest. The question is urgent. No written answer to this question has been provided. The Minister shall inform him that he may attend and give an oral answer. The replies to Members' questions will therefore take place today at 5 p.m. Members' questions have been received. The Members Andrejs Klementyevs, Potapkins, Arthur Rubiks, Cilevičs and Orlovs submitted a question to the Members “On extending the scope of medical treatment in the provision of rehabilitation services”, which we submit to the Health Minister’s acting officer Maris Kučinskis. Members Pimenov, Ribakov, Lazareva, Urbanovich and Tutin asked Members: “On additional funding for the EU Structural Funds measure “Authorisation and implementation of general educational content based on a competence approach””. The word for motivation to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U242	According to the comments on the amendments to education legislation, the Ministry of Education and Science is directing consideration of the government proposals for amendments to the European Union Structural Funds measure, providing for additional funding of 4.5 million euros for the project on the access to teaching content to implement (i.e. within four years) the support measures for teachers working in a linguisticly uneven learning environment described in the report on the transition to state language training in general education.... Thank you for your attention. Please answer whether the resources provided for access to the content of competences are legal and reasonable to direct teacher training and the development of teaching tools for the transition of education to the state language.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U243	The question shall be referred to the Minister for Finance. And Members Pimenov, Ribakov, Lazareva, Morozov and Urbanovich put the question “On public participation in project development”. The word for motivation to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U244	Okay, okay... It seems to me, however, that there was a mistake, because I just commented on the issue with this name on the screen. ( The next item on the agenda will remain unchanged on the table.) But it's about... ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U245	We are on the next question: 'On public participation in project development', which is addressed to the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. The reason was given to the Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U246	Thank you. Annotations of amendments to education laws state that the Consultative Council on Minorities Education has received conceptual support for the transition to Latvian-language education in secondary school; I told you about this today. However, as we know, there was no vote on support at the Council meeting, although the vote was put to the vote. Can Minister Shadurski confirm his support by means of the minutes of the Council's meeting? In turn, the association “The Latvian Association of Educational Language School Support” (LAŠOR) has submitted an opinion on draft laws announced at the meeting of State Secretaries following the procedures. However, why the opposition of LAŠOR, which was examined by the Ministry (Interpredition) at the conciliation meeting, there is no word in the explanatory memorandum to the bill? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U247	Mr. Pimenova, you still had time to motivate for 15 seconds because the tabla showed wrong. (Laughter) Depp. A.Kamiņš: Even screens in the Saeima! ) The question is referred to the Minister for Education and Science for a reply. The question asked Members Zarina, Arthur Rubika, Raimonds Rubika, Tutina and Potapkin about the validity of the "OIC reform" implemented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is referred to the Minister of Economic Affairs for a reply, has been received. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for reading the results of the registration to a member of the Seimas Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U248	Dear colleagues, Has not registered: Hosams Abu Meri, Jānis Adamsons, Ringolds Balodis, Raivis Dzintars, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Atis Lejiņš, Ingmārs Līdaka, Renārs Putniņš, Romualds Gamuks, Valdis Skujiņš, Veiko Spolitis, Edvins Šnore and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-22-PT12-468-U249	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
