ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Please, take your seats! It would be very beautiful if Mr. Chair could also have a seat. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on April 19th, 2018. Before we start to discuss the approved agenda for today's sitting, we need to decide on possible amendments to it. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to change the agenda of today's sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Money Laundering and Prevention of Terrorism Financing” at first reading. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to amend the agenda of today's meeting and to include the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods at first reading. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting of 19 April this year and the draft decision “On the appointment of Gerdas Rozīte-Pupkevičius as a judge of the district (city) court”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to amend the agenda of today’s meeting and to include in it the draft decision “On the change of the date of review of the review of the law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” in the Saeima sitting from 19 April 2018 to 26 April 2018”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration" to be included on the agenda of today's sitting. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Members Loskutov, Abu Meri, Dzintars, Spolitis and Putniņš are asking to include the draft law “Amendments to the law on conservation and protection of the historic centre of Riga” on the agenda of today’s sitting. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting to examine the approved agenda. We started traditionally with the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. According to the parliamentary roll of order, one Member can speak "for", one is "no" to refer the draft law to the commission. Name of Member Inguna Silver. She has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! We make a lot of decisions in the Saeima, and every decision is certainly important, but there are decisions that are very crucial not only for years but perhaps even for decades. The nation of Latvia in many surveys and ratings does not belong to those who call themselves happy nations. Don't belong to those happiest! And Latvia's land has been lucky or has not been lucky in its own way... If it's very narrow and mercantile, perhaps it's not lucky that you can't get oil, gems, or some other resources. In a way, we live in illusions about the possibility of being a transit power or something else. To say so, enjoy the fruit of nature without unnecessary effort. However, Latvia has one very important resource for the nation: educated people. And the question is, will we be able to make the Latvian nation smarter here in the Saeima when making decisions, or will we be far-sighted with our decisions? I regard education as a very, very important resource for a happy and rich nation to live here. However, when I got acquainted with the draft laws tabled (I am talking here about both - both the draft law on amendments to the Education Act and the draft law on amendments to the General Education Act), I did not find a response to the most important question: what is the result that we want to achieve by changing the system? I read all 50 pages, all the annotation, but I did not find the answer to the very main question: what will be the result of what will be the changes in the system? Once again, I see this bureaucratic approach: the Ministry of Education and Science understands its mission only as a regulation, standard, requirement and implementation of everything else, and not as a responsibility for a young person leaving school. That is why I believe that, before making a decision here in the Saeima, we Members must be able to predict what the result will be. The other important thing. Anyone involved in these changes must understand these changes; these changes must be accepted. But when I see the parents' mood, I realize that the question of how children should be taken away from their childhood so that they get to the labour market more quickly is not understood and understood among their parents. There has not been enough debate in society for parents to accept these changes in the education system. If children are studying for 14 years today, they will study for 13 years... I count that from then on, from five years, this compulsory pre-school education is actually starting. It is not about children sitting too long at school benches, but about how the change in educational content will make the child smarter when sitting less at school. Again, I cannot see an answer to that question. I am in favour of having a choice for my parents. They are in legislation today, because everyone can choose whether their child starts from six or seven years of school. I am certainly against excluding children from childhood so that they enter the labour market more quickly. And the third thing. I'm always against obscurity. Already in 2006, 2007, when the State Audit Office conducted an audit on the general education system and its quality, I wanted to find an answer to the question why in fact the education system produces biorobots in one way. 11 years have passed since then, but nothing has changed in the system, because the approach has not changed. There is no understanding that anything that is created... If the learning environment is changed, or the requirements for teachers are changed, or the content, standards and so on are changed... that they are just tools to make sure that we really have smart and thoughtful children. I am afraid of this approach that nothing changes in the sense of the officials who organise the change. At that time, 11 years ago, the answer was found: the Ministry of Education and Science does not see the result of his work, assessing the young man’s leaving school. At that time, child psychologists, educators, pedagogy specialists and specialists were happy to get involved because they were able to answer this question, why the system makes thoughtless young people who are not able to analyse. I am in favour of having a smart Latvia, so I cannot support the draft laws presented in this form and sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U3	Thank you. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich. He has applied to speak “for”.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U4	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I want to start with a positive note. I think our children are very nice and positive. If they start their education processes earlier, I think they are getting more and more, because at an early age they are much more aware, easier to perceive, and we will prepare them for real, practical life so that they can learn more in primary and secondary school. The amendments proposed by the Cabinet include a number of proposals related to the transition to the content of education based on competences. And in answer to Mrs Silver's question: what is the main objective?... The main goal at the moment is to really raise the quality of education in general education and, above all, to prepare our students, to teach them the skills of today's changing life. Now on the areas proposed in the amendments. The first is on the regulatory framework for the content of education and work organisation of education. Next, the other. Of course, the most recent and the most discussed at the moment is the issue that really causes a lot of uncertainty, that is, do children from the age of six years have to start first class training? I can say that there are a number of questions: what and how suitable the school environment will be; will children in kindergartens be able to start school in the first class if we decide; will the child be able to stay at the school for 12 hours, as is currently the case in kindergartens - from seven to seven; and how will pre-school educators, who will have to work in the first class in primary education? I think if we hand over these amendments to the Commission, then we will discuss and listen to the views of all parties so that we can really make the best decisions for our children, as well as for our teachers, and that we can see our young people increasingly educated. The third area is the forms of educational organisation, the conditions for obtaining education and the orientations of educational programmes. Field 4. Rules on the starting and closing time of the school year and the semester, as well as on the holiday time, because sometimes there are extended years. Municipalities are also entitled to terminate their training, especially during winter periods when there are cold waves. And it is proposed to clarify it. It is also proposed that the classification of types of general education institutions be organised: which are primary and primary schools, and which are secondary and secondary schools, i.e. secondary and national gymnasiums, excluding the term “municipal gymnasiums”. Area Six. Social correction education institutions and educational adjustment programmes, and what this means. And the seventh area is the implementation of special education institutions and special education, as well as special boarding schools and rehabilitation centres. Since these amendments cover a rather wide range, and above all they relate to competence-based education, which we intend to introduce from 1 September 2019. Of course, these are all very important issues, and to be able to listen, I repeat! - all interested parties, opinions, answers to unclear questions and decisions, please refer these two draft laws to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. And I would like to say that yesterday, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application has also voted in favour of manbals.lv's application, where you are asked to keep starting training in the first class from the age of seven. So, on the hand of this application to the Commission. So I also ask you to support the transfer of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 46, for - 34, for - 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. According to the Rules of Procedure, one Member can speak "for", one - against a draft law being passed on to the Commission. Name to Member Varis Krumins. He has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U6	Hello, Mr. Many! Hello, colleagues! Undoubtedly, Latvia's education system needs to be improved. The principles need to be changed and education made modern. There is a need to develop an education system that enables students to succeed, to be knowledgeable, skilled and able to adapt to different living situations. A system must be developed that helps to build personalities with strong self-esteem, pride in their country and acquired education. Education, which allows not only to survive but also to live in prosperity and contribute to science, art and the economy, state development and growth. Unfortunately, the new model proposed by the Ministry of Education and Science, which is cardinally different from the previous Latvian pedagogy, educational traditions, does not look promising to say more. There is a high risk that the current system is also far from ideal, but the new one may turn out to be a real disaster that will not be able to be repaired in generations. Yeah, we need a change! But does the Ministry of Education and Science talk to school leaders and teachers about how to deal with all Shadursky's failings in the end of the process of quantitative reform? Where does the quality of this reform remain? Yes, there are guidelines, but there is no content. There is still no shared vision of programmes as to how education of competences can be implemented through educational stages. For example, there is no strict definition of what will be learned from three years. It will be a free choice. Thus, when changing schools, the student will not be able to continue the training step by step.’ At present, only a description of the content of the training is developed on the basis of which new pre-school guidelines are developed, as well as a new standard of primary and secondary education. This project has not been scientifically proven or tested in Latvia. No one says that every student will need a computer at home, otherwise it will not be possible to learn the teaching material. Knowing the well-being of our people, it must be concluded that it will hardly be possible for all students. No one says that students will have to learn Latvian according to the methodology of foreign languages. Meanwhile, the Minister proudly declares that the transition to Latvian-language learning is taking place. It's interesting to know how? Learning the same way as any foreign language? Because all will be equal. Needless to say, there is currently a catastrophic shortage in schools of Latvian language and mathematics teachers who would be ready to work with this new content. Neither does anyone say that all teachers are not prepared for the new model. No one says that, in the end, municipalities will pay for all the ministry's "comfort" and countless reforms. Where do all these quantitative reforms take money? In the opinion of the Minister, teachers’ salaries may not be enough. It is easy to destroy the last basics of existing education, so let us not be surprised if, as a result of the reform of this content, students' achievements in subjects or fields of science deteriorate. This is demonstrated by the results of the previous reform. In mathematics, for example, in the last school year, pupils achieved on average only 34.5% of their students in central exams in the country. Significantly, the achievements of minority teachers who did not give up under the pressure of ministerial officials and worked with tested methods were higher for pupils in central examinations. The conclusion is one: the newly adopted or, more precisely, the model taken up has many risks and unpredictable consequences. Who, though, is interested in this? What else can I say? The offer for sports, health and safety training is simply unacceptable to me as a long-term sports coach and teacher. The time offered by the project will be divided between these three strands. There is no enforceable definition and criteria. And this is at a time when the level of physical training of young people is falling, when the standards of physical training in home structures are falling, because young people are unable to meet existing standards. Moreover, it is wrong to imagine that only competences and skills are enough in sport. No, in sport, we also need knowledge and iron discipline to achieve something. And I would like to remind you that in Latvian elite, expensive private schools there is still a classic approach and strict discipline. This is also the case in those countries from which this model of competence education called fetish competences has been copied. The reforms introduced by these amendments to the Education Law are unprepared and incomprehensible, so I call for a vote against! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U7	Thank you. Member's name is Laimdota Straujuma. She will talk about handing over the draft law to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U8	Dear colleagues, All of us in the Saeima agree that every child and each of us need a understanding of skills, competences and values. Young people in school need to develop a sense of responsibility and be individuals. The representative of the Association of the Regions of Latvia has just agreed to this. But when we start to do so, we are against it. We stand by and want to be baffled rather than go ahead. Mr Adamovich has already analysed both the positive sides and the things that need to be improved in these draft laws. I would like to remind Mr Krumina - although he knows very well - that the Ministry of Education and Science has prepared a new concept for teaching teachers so that, at the beginning of this reform of education, teachers can be trained to teach children these skills and competences. Colleagues, let us move forward, and I call for support for both draft laws of the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U9	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church” presented by Member Baloža, Abu Meri, Kaliningrad, Gaida Berzins, Brigmanis, Debtor, Kūtra and Stepanenko be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. At the same time, you have been informed that the Member, Hosam Abu Meri, has made reference to his signature under this bill, but the number of Members who have tabled the bill still corresponds to the number set out in the Rule of Procedure. We must therefore decide to refer this draft law to the Commission. As I said, one Member can talk about, one against passing the draft law on to the Commission. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky. He has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U10	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! The cornerstone of this draft law, the cornerstone of the amendments, is included in the preamble. Some understood it at once; some understood it gradually. And today's reality or historical heritage is that there are two in one: the LELB - the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church - and the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia. Sometimes they hang each other (for Latvians it happens, as we know). There is a move towards one church, one church, which we would also like. Since the time of Archbishop Gailis, this is the case; it is documented - there is this determination on both sides, and it is good, but Latvians sometimes have difficulties with their unity. It can only upset Latvians. It can, of course, please the evils of Latvians. What could Members of the Saeima do in this case? The best thing you can do is not to interfere, because its differences are mainly theological. What will the Saeima do to push this bill? Not only will it not interfere, but by exercising the authority of office, where the Church is separated from the State, it will stand in one of the parties to the dispute, declaring it lawful and exclusively correct! I will quote a preamble that says that one of these parties, the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church, “is the only legal successor to the Church operating in Latvia until 1940”. The Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia is completely ignored. The applicants may say that this is not the case. You talked to them? Did you consult me? No, no... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “With one side!” ) Yes, with one side. With the other, by no means. There are eight lines on which you consulted. There are three rows of different LELB institutions, as well as the Roman Catholic Church... There have been no consultations with the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia. And then five lines have been dedicated to justify the competence of the first applicant, Ringold Baloža, on this issue, which is undoubtedly the largest in Latvia. Undoubtedly, it's the greatest, and there's nothing to argue about. But the question is not even legal in its essence. Although legally this is not so clear. At the end of the war, Archbishop Grīnbergs was expelled into exile with the symbol of all his powers - the wand, and essentially the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia outside Latvia is the heir of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia, it participates in all international forums, representing Latvian Lutherans. Here, in the occupied country, remained the occupied Church. Part of the repression, part of the cooperation... Therefore, it is not without reason that the LELB is the heir of the LSSR Lutheran Church. What, though, is the most important issue? The Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia maintained the idea of Latvianism and Latvian independence in those years. Those who have been in contact with exiled Latvians know this very well. It was an unselfish support during Awakening and after Awakening, thus also for the Lutheran Church in Latvia. Now they are told: “Stand your wheels and hold your mouth!” Yes, Latvia's local church also deserved to restore independence. Yes, there was the movement of new priests “Renewing and Resurrection”... But I contacted Modri Plate, who said to me, “Welcome to them, and say so to them – I am most strongly against.” It can be manipulated that the title contains the words "outside Latvia"... No, it's also with Latvian congregations... And it's also a Diaspora... It's also a division of Latvia. You can talk about handing over to the commission, but... We could refer the matter to the Commission if there were any small uncertainties that should be corrected. In fact, it is said about this: “Well, we are persuasive! But well, you can come to the commission, let's see it, and maybe we'll shut it down.” I want to say that this draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U11	Mr Latkovsky, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U12	... its direction will only continue the fragmentation and tension in the middle of the Church as well as between the Latvian Diaspora.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U13	Mr. Latkovsky, you exceed time!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U14	It's a fault!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U15	Thank you. Name to Member Ringold Balodim. He will talk about handing over the draft law to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U16	Good morning, dear colleagues! In recent days, we have all heard a wide range of information presented emotionally and distorted, without legal justification. For this reason, I would like to talk about amendments to the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church law from a rational rather than an irrational point of view. What is irrational? Well, for example, look at the Lutheran website under “We Are”. It explains that the Church is the people who follow Christ, that it exists to declare the Gospel, forgiveness of sins, life in Christ... There's a lot of stuff that's written there! We will not have enough sittings today and the spring part-session will not have enough to look at all this! We can come to the dangerous questions: Is God there? What is God better? Stop! The family must not view the Church with emotional or religious or other interest! The view must be rational; it must be based on the national constitution and common sense. When deciding on amendments to the law, we need to follow three general lines. First, there is no ‘two in one’. The Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church Law was adopted in 2008 and concerns only one legal person with registration number 90000159994. This law is not about a foreign Lutheran Church or another church that is registered or not registered. The law is about LELB - about the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church. Secondly, the legislator must respect the constitutional framework. Article 99 of the Satversme requires us to ensure that every believer and also Church religious freedom is practiced and exercised. Article 99 of the Satversme contains the existing model of relations between the State and the Church: it is a separation or separation. That's it! The church has an autonomous will! The church in question has decided, and we must respect this autonomous will. And this constitutional framework obliges us to respect what the Church wants in its law. The legislator must not be based on prejudice or sympathy. The Constitutional Court has stated in some of its decisions: constitutional institutions must be uninterested. That is what we have to be! Thirdly, consistency in the development of relations between the State and the Church, including legal practice, must be respected. This guidance relates to the first and the second. This means the duty of the State not to interfere in the decisions of the Church. Both the Law of 1928 and the Law of 1934 already established that the LELB was a right of self-determination and self-government. The country has so far respected, hopefully also today, and we will pass on the draft law to the Commission. The specific amendments to the law are divided into three blocks: a preamble, a change of registration, a notification. The second one was the main one. It involves increasing the autonomy of the Church and cutting red tape by keeping documents in the Register of Enterprises. This would be a cost savings both from the State and from the Church. And there are some other nuances related to the rains, holiday events and similar things that the Church wants in its law. Surprisingly, the biggest criticism was given a direct introduction in which the state recognises the continuity of the activities of LELB in Latvia. LELB is the only legal successor! It's the Lutheran Church. We gave the property of the Church after we passed the law “On Return of Property to Religious Organisations” in 1992. There were three points, three conditions. First: the religious organization must be registered in 1940 in the Department of Churches and Confessions of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Latvia. Second: it has not ceased its activities. And third: has restored its legal personality. All three prerequisites are met. We have given them property. And now the question is, What is legal succession? I think it is not right to even discuss such matters. Yes, the preamble can be improved. But in any case, it is wrong to open the discussion about the Church wars that we had between 1922 and 1928. Indeed, the property was redistributed there. And this situation is not acceptable in my view. So the proposals we have to look at... consider whether they can be improved. I think I do. Do not let yourself be confused with the idea of liberalism! Support the Church of the homeland! 286 congregations, 700 thousand believers. That's the huge number we're looking at right now. Colleagues, let us respect the autonomous will of the Church! Thank you. I support the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U17	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia” to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs presented by the Member Baloža, Kaliningrad, Gaida Berzina, Brigmanis, Debtor, Kūtra and Stepanenko, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 14, for - 7. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses” submitted by the Saeima State Administration and Municipal Commission be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and that it be established that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the draft law “On the Treaty “On Anti-Contraband and Counterfeiting Treaty and General Exemption, concluded on 9 July 2004 between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. , the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and those Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets” and the Treaty amending the Agreement between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. ‘The European Community, represented by the European Commission, and the Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets’, shall be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and designated as the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Diplomatic Passport”” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the ninth Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the First Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the 2016 World Postal Convention” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the World Postal Union of 10 July 1964, the World Postal Convention of 5 October 2004, the Final Protocol to the World Postal Convention of 5 October 2004, the General Rules of the World Postal Union of 5 October 2004 and the Agreement on Postal Payment Services of 5 October 2004” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Eighth Additional Protocol to the Constitution of the World Postal Union and the First Additional Protocol to the General Rules of Procedure of the World Postal Union” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the recognition of the Law “On the 2008 World Postal Convention, the Final Protocol to the 2008 World Postal Convention and the 2008 Agreement on Postal Payment Services” be handed over to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the 2016 Agreement on Postal Payment Services” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Losktov, Abu Meri, Dzintara, Srollis and Putniņš should refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Conservation and Protection of the Historical Center of Riga” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and make it a responsible commission. Do Members have objections? Members object. Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Education, Culture and Science Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Preservation and Defence of the Historical Centre of Riga” presented by Member Loškovs, Abu Meri, Dzintara, Srollišs and Putniņš, stating that it is the commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 21, for - 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next section of the agenda is entitled "On own-initiative proposals tabled". Draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to prevent the negative impact of the mandatory procurement component (OIC) on Latvian electricity end-users”. It was submitted by Members Ivars Zarins, Zenta Tretjaka, Jeļena Lazareva, Jānis Urbanovičs, Arthur Rubiks, Raimonds Rubiks, Sergey Potapkins, Igor Zuvėvs, Aleksandrs Jakilovs and Ivan Ribakovs. The question is, do Members have reservations that this own-initiative proposal is on the agenda for today's sitting? Members object. We must therefore decide whether or not to include this draft decision on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. According to the parliamentary roll, one Member may speak in favour, one against the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. ‘ Member Ivars Zarins has signed up to speak for’. He's got a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U18	We are loudly told that OIC is a mistake. No, it's not a mistake! It's an abyss that has been deliberately developed for many years. And only now, when it reveals and the public actually learns how all this happened, suddenly starts to say, “You know, it was a mistake, we didn’t know it would happen.” You knew everything, you continued to do it, and you continued to do it, to cover up this atmosphere. Contrary to what is said to society. It is shown to the public that, as if suddenly, there is a fight against the OIC sphere, although if we look at the real works that have then been done during the half-year, when the Ministry of Economics, with its lips, tells us how to fight this field, we see that the contribution is exactly zero. So what's done? One of the things that the big Cabinet of Ministers has been doing is rules that have been adopted to combat the OIC. However, if you take and get acquainted with these rules, you will see that they basically retain the previous absurd control mechanism that motivates economic operators not to comply with these conditions of support and gives them the opportunity to fraud easily. More! The Ministry of Economy has tried to legalise its container schemes through these rules. Moreover, the Ministry of Economics has said with these rules that important things such as self-consumption will not have to be checked for another year and a half, thus allowing all those who have been cheating to legalize and who should have withdrawn these authorisations. The same is true of the legendary checks of the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry of Economics, as you know, says that it heroically fights against the OIC, and for six months, almost half a year, tests 39 stations, of which 25 have not worked at all. Throughout this period, the Ministry of Economics has managed to withdraw 21 permits, although it is known that only seven of these 39 stations have sales contracts. This means that purely theoretically, the rest could not even have worked. However, the Ministry of Economy has still not dealt with this inspection. Then there is the question: what is the Ministry of Economics actually doing? An example of the fact that the Ministry of Economics has no wish or competence (either one or the other, or perhaps the two) to fight this afērce is the proposal of the Ministry of Economics after half a year, when it should come up with what it really should do with this afērze, set up a working group that will then explore what to do with the OIC afēr! Contrary to what has been said to the public that this task force is being set up to put an end to the OIC, in fact, if you get to know the task of this task force, which has been approved by the Cabinet, it is not about ending this task, but actually to continue. The Task Force will decide to suspend the OIC as a payment scheme and create something new. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Ivar, I support! Right!” ) In particular, those who have schemed this area, who have covered it all this time, have understood that the existing mechanism has discredited themselves and, instead, must simply create a new one so that it can continue. That is the task of this working group. Colleagues! What do I offer? I propose that we approve today the task of this task force, as the Coalition Council has decided and announced to the public, namely that it will be the task of this task of this task force to put an end to this area and to really put this system in order. And I appeal: if it wasn't just an empty political rhetoric and you didn't want to deceive society, but really you're ready to answer your promises, and if the task of this task force really is to put an end to this phase of the OIC, then exactly what you have promised to society, we now record on behalf of this task force and make this task force do! Because it is obvious that otherwise the Ministry of Economics will not be able to deal with this task. This is evidenced both by the way in which this task has now been formulated and by the composition of this working group, which is very specific. If you get to know it, you will see that most of this working group has been involved in the OIC area itself or has benefited from it either directly or in the last resort. Then the question is: what will be the result of this task force? So we offer two things. One thing is to clearly define what the tasks of this task force are, according to what the public has promised, namely to end the OIC. And the other thing is that the Saeima must follow up on how this working group will work and what proposals it will make. And there must be not just proposals, but a concrete action plan that is being implemented. Otherwise, everything that has been done so far by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and this working group, too, is in fact only to take time to the elections and not to do anything, because once again after the elections, everything will be determined by the interests of the sponsors and not by the interests of society. Colleagues! I call on you to support this proposal if you really want to deal with it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U19	Thank you. The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver. He would say 'no' to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U20	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, The Ministry of Economics and the Cabinet of Ministers shall continue work on the arrangement and elimination of the mandatory procurement component system. ( Interface: “Segregation! ”) ) In recent months, the Ministry of Economics has abolished 21 permits after hard work in evaluating the most risky stations, thus saving Latvia’s population in future commitments (Dep. I.Zariņš: “From 25 inoperative stations!” ) EUR 340 million. Monitoring of power plants has been strengthened and around 400 plants will be tested in the future (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “When?” ) to test their regulatory framework as well as to assess the usefulness of cogeneration plants. In addition, on Tuesday, 17 April, in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, a high-level working group of 24 members was set up, whose task is to evaluate the impact of the mandatory procurement component and subsidised electricity on the economy by 1 August, as well as to propose proposals for the abolition and elimination of the mandatory procurement component as payment mechanism. The task of this working group will also be to submit a monthly report on the work done by the working group and to submit proposals to the Cabinet for the abolition of the mandatory procurement component by 1 September. Do not doubt, colleagues - The Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Economics will inform the Saeima about the actions and activities of this working group. I therefore call on us not to duplicate what has already been done and what has already been done and call for us to reject this draft decision. ( From a political group, “What was done? ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U21	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the independent proposal – the draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to prevent the negative impact of the mandatory procurement component (OIC) on Latvian electricity end-users” – on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 29, for - 20. The own-initiative proposal is not on the agenda for the next sitting. Is there any proposal... Is that so? Yeah. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zariņš!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U22	I call for this own-initiative proposal to be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U23	Please turn on the microphone for Janis Upenieks!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U24	In line with the arguments I have already listed, I call for this matter not to be referred to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U25	You're going to offer another commission? No, no. In any case, one... So you can propose to hand over to the commission, and the Member can say no. We now have to make a distinction by voting. Please call me! Let us vote for this draft decision to be submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 30, for - 19. The draft decision has not been referred to the Commission. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal should be considered rejected. Dear colleagues, The next sub-section is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. For unpaid leave granted to Līga Kozlovska, Member, on 12 April this year. For unpaid leave granted to Līga Kozlovska, Member, on 12 April this year. Member Līga Kozlovska has asked to grant her unpaid leave on 12 April this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave, and I have informed you today at the Saeima sitting. Before we start to consider the next section of the agenda of the Saeima sitting, I informed you that the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government is asking to include in the agenda of today's sitting the draft law drawn up by this Commission on the first reading of the Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in the Privatised Apartments Houses, without re-examination by the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The decision ‘On the appointment of Gerda Rosīte-Pupkevičas as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U26	Good morning, honourable colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 April this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Gerda Rozīte-Pupkeviča as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. To the candidates. Gerda Rosīte-Pupkeviča was born in 1985. She holds a Master's degree in law and a lawyer's qualification. The acquired qualification corresponds to the fifth level of professional qualifications. The previous work experience of Gerda Rosīte-Pupkevičs is related to the case law, including she has worked as the secretary of court hearings and assistant to the judge. Gerda Rozite-Pupkevičs, as a candidate for the position of judge, is a trainee from August 2017 until now. A positive response from Riga city Latgale suburb court has been received for him. The reference indicates that the candidate for the position of a judge is able to interpret legal norms according to the facts of a particular case, as well as to understand existing case-law. Feedback conclusion: the candidate for the position of judge Gerda Rozīte-Pupkeviča fully corresponds to the position of judge. The report of Riga Regional Court shows that Gerda Rozīte-Pupkeviča has the characteristics necessary for the performance of the duties of a judge. She is aware of the role and responsibility of a judge and is a suitable candidate for the duties of a judge. In his statement, the director of the judicial system supervisory department notes that in general, during the traineeship Gerdas Rozīte-Pupkevičs' knowledge is evaluated by “excellent” and believes that she can perform the duties of a judge in an exemplary manner. The Judicial Qualification Committee gives a positive opinion on the appointment of Gerdas Rozite-Pupkevičas as a judge of a district (city) court. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Gerd Rositis-Pupkevičs to appoint a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Gerdas Rozīte-Pupkevičs as judge of the district (city) court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U29	The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law on the second reading of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U30	Hello, honourable Members! We are working on the draft law on the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. The Foreign Affairs Commission unanimously supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U31	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft law on the second final reading of the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the detention of persons in custody, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Zenta Tretjaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U32	Hello, honorable Bureau! Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 11 April of this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detaining Persons” (No 1119/Lp12) at third reading. No proposals have been tabled for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U33	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the detention of persons in custody” at third reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U35	The next item is the draft law amending the law on the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Citizens of Other Countries, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U36	Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the law on the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Citizens of Other States”. On behalf of the Commission, please support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law amending the law on the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Citizens of Other States, third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “European Economic Area Financial Mechanism and Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2014-2021”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U38	Good morning, colleagues! We look at the draft law at third reading. We have received one proposal for the third reading. It is a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U39	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U40	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U41	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “European Economic Area Financial Instrument and Norwegian Financial Instrument Management Law 2014-2021” at the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Audit Services, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U42	There is also a third reading of this draft law. Two proposals have been received by the Commission for a third reading. The proposal, which is editorial in nature, is a proposal by the Saeima's Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U44	Proposal No 2 and the proposal of the Saeima Legal Bureau. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U45	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U46	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U47	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U48	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety”, third reading. Four proposals were submitted to the third reading. The proposal is from Mr Janis Trupovnieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health. The proposal has been partly supported and included 2. - in the proposal of the committee responsible...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U49	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U50	... which is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U51	Members also share the Commission’s view on the proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U52	The proposal was tabled by Jūlija Stepanenko, Member of the Saeima. It is partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal, which is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U53	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U54	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to explain precisely and properly the substance of my proposal in the presence of my colleagues in the Commission, because I defended other proposals in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. However, as the discussion that had already begun at the third reading continued and we discussed the situation with representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Legal Bureau outside the Commission, I must thank the members of the Commission for understanding my concerns. Although I am still not sure how the obligation for a natural person to comply with the instructions of an epidemiologist and an anti-epidemic health inspector will really work, these instructions are still not defined. But I am pleased that I have succeeded in introducing some clarity, at least in the situation that determines that a person will not have to take medical action against his will on the instructions of an official. In particular, vaccines are involved, since the Ministry of Health mentioned vaccination as one of the possible indications that would be enforceable under this provision in the discussion of the second reading within the Commission. As we know and according to international rules, vaccination cannot be compulsory, compulsory. It is therefore important to stress that the refusal of medical manipulation cannot be regarded as a violation of the law. Similarly, we must not forget that such an official's instruction is to be regarded as an administrative act and, let us say that when giving instructions to a natural person to refrain from certain activities, such as not to visit a job, it must be observed that a person does not, in the course of carrying out an epidemiologist's instructions, become in a situation where he is in breach of a contract with an employer. If regulation provides for a justified delay, it is good, but if not, it must be arranged accordingly. My specific proposal for a person to be entitled to refuse medical manipulation is clarified 4. - the Commission's proposal, which has been slightly reworded, but I understand that 4. - the Commission's proposal is acceptable to all. That is why I will not invite you to vote in favour of my proposal either, but I would like to point out once again that the will of the legislator in this proposal is exactly what I have presented to you at the moment. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U55	Thank you. The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U56	Dear President, Colleagues! Thank you very much to Member Stepanenko for this debate, but I would like to introduce clarity. Where there is a threat to the health and life of other members of society, human rights end there. Yes, a person has the right to appropriate treatment, but the relevant authorities - epidemiology, infection - can apply the measures necessary to stop the epidemic. As regards vaccination. Vaccination during an epidemic is not carried out. Because it takes time to build up adequate immunity. During an epidemic, serums, which are ready - to - use antibodies, can be given, and this is a very different thing. This article and this proposal - both Mrs Stepanenko and our modified proposal - are not about vaccination. It is about a person’s duty to follow the instructions so that the health and life of others are not threatened. The patient’s right to consent or refuse to medical manipulations and measures shall be established by the Law on Patients’ Rights and the Law on Medical Treatment. So this law in no way monopolizes the right of doctors to do anything to the patient. But, of course, thank you for the discussion. We discussed all this and created a Commission proposal in due course.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U57	Thank you. The debate is closed. (Applause) I understand that Member Stepanenko does not require a vote. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U58	No, no. Our fellow Member, Mr Ražuks, explained precisely the nature of vaccination, the consequences and the world practice. Proposal No 3. Supported. 4. - Social and Labour Commissions...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U59	Proposal 3 has been partly supported and included in proposal 4. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U60	Partially supported, yes, and included 4. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U61	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U62	Therefore, please support the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety" (No 1080/Lp12) at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U63	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety" in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law - “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U64	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” in preparation for the first reading by the Cabinet of Ministers. This draft law is designed to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 amending three previously adopted Directives and one Regulation and repealing one Directive. The draft law establishes a broader geographical territory for the provision of regulated payment services, clearer licensing procedures for payment institutions and electronic money institutions, new procedure for the opening of payment institutions and electronic money institutions across borders; introduces the principle of non-discrimination regarding the right of payment institutions to access their payment account with credit institutions; establishes licensing requirements for account information service providers and payment initiation service providers; provides for the right for the Financial and Capital Market Commission to refuse the application for registration of a person; provides for the regulatory rules for the calculation of the own funds requirement of payment institutions; establishes new requirements for the supervision fee of the Financial and Capital Market Commission; intends to introduce the obligation for payment service providers to develop an assessment of operational and security risks of their activities (this is relevant due to recent events in the Latvian banking sector). This draft law provides for a number of further improvements in matters relating to the provision of payment services and the movement of electronic money within the country. The amendments to this law are quite large, so although the government called for the urgent nature of this draft law, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, having discussed all this, decided to invite the Saeima to look at the draft law in the ordinary course of three readings. I therefore call on the Commission to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U65	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U66	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 10 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U67	May 10th. Members don't mind... I'm sorry! Member Atis Lejiņš wanted to apply for another term? Oh, it's next... Okay. This time the girls hurried up. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 10 May. The next item is the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Holidays, Remembrances and Marked Days”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Rihards Melgailis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U68	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs has examined the draft law submitted by Members “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days””. Nature of the draft law: November 11, Lāčplēsis Day, be included in the list of holidays, thus removing it from the list of famous days. The Commission meeting did not raise the issue of the importance of this celebration, of the tradition of celebration. Ministers repeatedly stressed that here too this holiday will have to work and create additional costs that could cause damage to the state: the next year - 8.6 million, the next year - 9.2 million; this year - no, because November 11 is Sunday. At the same time, several ministries and invited institutions supported this holiday, with the exception of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia. The Ministry of Economics has made the following proposal: to revise the list of holidays in general - perhaps some of us are redundant. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U69	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Mr Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U70	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! At that meeting, we were also talking about the fact that there are far fewer holidays in other countries than in Latvia, and Sweden was mentioned. But in reality, it cannot count on the number of holidays, so simply because there is one in every country. — The Head of the Sitting knocked out with a hammer. ... there is a separate methodology in each country. For example, Sweden has 13 days, we have 15 days. I used to live in Sweden, and I know well that there are more holidays in Sweden, because employers agree with the workers, and so those days are not marked as national holidays. Yes, I work at the same office, and we never worked on Saturdays. So is France. For example, in France... How many provinces in France? I don't know. There are only three national holidays in France, but in each province, an employer can agree with an employee, and then it can only count, because, although France is a secular country, it has more religious holidays than any religious country. That is one aspect. That can't really be compared. Second: if people feel more rested, if there is less stress, then when they go to work, they work more productively. If we have low productivity in Latvia, maybe it's not just because employers don't invest in new technologies, maybe it's because a person is quite well run... Let us not say that Sweden has low productivity! There is very high productivity and there is more holidays. So I want to invite you to accept this day as our great holiday! Without November 11, which we want to celebrate all over Latvia, not only with candles here, near the castle... Yes, so that it would be a day that we celebrate as a holiday, because it would not have been 18 November without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U71	Thank you. The name is Walter Dambem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U72	Dear Members, The people like the festival, they like the celebration. That's a hundred percent truth! And, of course, rested people work much more productively. But someone has to pay for this celebration, and they are entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs are employers - those who do work in the production of goods and services and create our country's gross domestic product. Just like 0.1 percent a day - well, it's not much! But if Latvia has 16 holidays this year, it is already 1.6 percent. In the Commission, only the Employers' Confederation of Latvia was opposed to an additional holiday. Vārgi objected to the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance. It is my duty to support employers, because they are the real makers of the Latvian state budget (the Cabinet of Ministers, Saeima, the Ministry of Finance is only the managers of this budget). It is wrong to ignore these taxpayers - the real wealthmakers of our country. What about the world? How and how do neighbors celebrate? Colleagues Lejins has already said that Sweden can agree, Germany can agree... Probably also in Latvia agree... Employers and many representatives of Orthodox denominations already agree on a holiday for the celebration of Orthodox Christmas. Our many mentioned Estonian neighbours have only 10 designated holidays, Lithuania - 14, USA - 13, Russia - 15. We're 16. Yes, there are some countries in the world that can celebrate more, and let them celebrate! Latvia's time will also come when we will be able to celebrate. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance in the Commission said that the impact of one holiday day on the budget in 2019 is 8.6 million. In 2018, as the previous speaker said, this holiday falls on Sunday and as if there will be no impact on the budget, but to some extent it will (I will say it later). In 2020 - 9.2 million. And so on. I rely on these calculations. In my opinion, these are big enough numbers for us to count on them, because our budget is still in deficit. Moreover, on public holidays, work in the health sector is usually increasing; police also have more work. In these sectors, workers will have to pay double. This also has budgetary implications. I have received dozens of calls from farmers who oppose an additional holiday because farm animals must be fed and maintained on a holiday. And this day the worker has to pay twice for his work! That's why Gottina's holiday doesn't give twice as much milk, but the farmer has to pay for it. The employer shall pay a four-week leave to the worker. If a holiday falls, then an additional day should be granted, which should also be paid. And the next three weeks come from the festival, or holidays. So together - seven weeks, that is, almost two months from the year 12 months! This is the time when the employer, without using his own equipment, is forced to pay to the worker without burdening the fixed assets and is forced to pay taxes. And there are sectors - agriculture, trade - where continuous work needs to be ensured and where workers have to work for 12 months. And in the end, a little sentiment. Both of my grandfathers have fought for freedom in the fight against Bermont's troops, for which they have received memorial medals and land for building new farms. We have remembered all the Soviet times on 11 November, we have lighted candles, and whatever color this day, November 11, will be painted in the calendar, in our family it will be a holiday. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U73	Thank you. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U74	Dear Members, I have expressed my solidarity with the view that Lāčplēsis Day is historically a very important day and it would be worth being a holiday more than a few good others, which we currently have a holiday. Perhaps some might say that now, half a year before the elections, we want to make it a holiday, populist. And here I will remind you of the good thing that nature has taken care of, namely, 11 November this year is Sunday, it is a holiday, and I call for it to be taken into account. This allows us to relax and not to strain on this matter. Because nature always takes care of. If we look at the festival, the traditions of the festival, they come from the Sun calendar. There is divine, cosmic intelligence. The line of God - vertical, the line of Māra - horizontal, there are sunflowers, and there are still cross lines. Very symmetrical and harmonious these festivals sit down. They are given by God and are given by nature. People have had a lot of events in history, and they demand: “Let’s get on with it, it’s so important to us!” And God says, “Well well, one or two, but very carefully.” And this is what we are watching in Europe: there are 10, maybe 12 holidays. We can't really understand, as we listed, 16 or 17 now. If this density develops, then there are all Saturdays of work, and complete chaos is formed at the rhythm of nature. In my opinion, there was a very wise advice from Ata Lejiņa that employers can agree very well with the workers and should not close the calendar, because they could really agree. If we want to be present now, it is clear that something needs to be taken off. There's too much. Now, what are we going to take off before the elections? Nothing! Nothing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “ January 1! 1 January!’ ) Well, you're not gonna do it, buddy, January 1. Easy to put in and it is impossible to remove. Basically, we need a new concept for holidays, because there is chaos a little bit ready. There are too many flags in the composition of sulphur... on that day. It's a hard story, but you can't be so depressed about it either. But it's the work of the new centenary and the new Saeima. This year, as I said, nature has taken care of. Ladies and gentlemen! Members! Stay calm this year with this question. It's gonna be okay! Do not take this initiative to change nature. I do not support this, and I also apologise for the time spent in the previous speech, Mr Dauges, I would give it back - 11 minutes, almost 12 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U75	I appreciate it. Name to Member Janis Dombrava. You're gonna get involved in ten minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U76	Dear Saeima! November 11 is indeed one of the largest celebrations in Latvia, which gathers many hundred and thousands of people. Hundreds of events take place in different places in Latvia – in small cities, large cities and even villages. And indeed, it is not right that this Latvian victory day is not officially celebrated as a festival. Over the years, the National Association has encouraged the inclusion of this day as an official day in its holiday calendar. Nevertheless, both the Dombrovskis Government and the Straujuma Government generally rejected these projects. We even offered a solution so that there would not be an additional holiday - to make 1 May a famous day in the future, and 11 November an official holiday. Even now, when it is possible for the Saeima to make this decision, we could make the following changes, if necessary: set May 1 as a famous day, but November 11 as an official holiday. Our nation needs a day of victory. Our troops were able to bring not only one major army, but two major armies. I think it is indeed a noteable event. I therefore call for a vote in favour of this draft law and for solutions to be found at second reading. And one of the solutions really is to change these days.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U77	Thank you. Ivars Freezers took part in the next debate. You're going to have seven minutes? Well, then obviously we have to go on a break and continue the debate after the break. Dear colleagues, Mr Freeer is not enough with seven minutes, so we have to break. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! As long as the results of the registration are collected, the name of the notice to the Member Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U78	Colleagues from the Legal Commission! I would remind you that the meeting of the Legal Commission will take place in five minutes' time at the premises of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U79	Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U80	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ints Dālderis, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Nally Kleinberga, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Rihards Melgailis... is, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Ināra Mūrniece, Artis Rasmanis, Jānis Trupovnieks, Viktors Valainis... Yes, Michael Zemlinski.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U81	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U82	Dear colleagues, Colonel is 11.00. The secretary of the Saeima has just counted the quorum. We shall continue to consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days” at first reading. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U83	Ladies and gentlemen! The theme of Latvian soldiers has always been close to me. I believe that it is always the right time to talk about this issue everywhere. First of all, I would like to oppose Mr Dombrava. Do not call 11 November the day of victory! It's Lacplesy's Day. We all know what event we celebrate this day. In society, however, everyone usually shares this view that this day, of course, we remember not only participants of Bermont battles, but all Latvian soldiers. This is the day when all Latvian soldiers should be remembered, regardless of where they fought and for what reasons. I do not really want us to mention only those who fought on the right side, just like in Soviet times. In the 1960s, a great film was taken at Riga’s Kinosta, which was not prohibited, but for which, for understandable reasons, there was very little show in cinemas, it was called “I remember everything, Richard!” Now it's called Stone and Slices, and our great actors are playing in it, who have probably also experienced them in time, - Eduards Pāvuls and Harry Liepiņš. At the end of the film, there is a very good episode: both characters of the film meet in Brothers' Cemetery (this is already happening in Soviet times - in the 1960s) and remember that they, as young people at Mother Latvia's monument before the war, had confidence in Latvia. This time has passed. One of these three boys has fallen into war. Two now adult men meet and remember the promise they made at that time. I just don't remember if it was Paul's imaginary hero or Liepiņa... If I am not mistaken, the hero Paul says: “But have you thought what would happen if those buried here rose up? Would not the bloody war on life and death begin again, as it were when they were really alive? And each of them would think that he was fighting for the Yimteni.” These words were not taken out of this film. As I said, I have prepared several stories. I myself, of course, have not taken part in war, but I have spoken to many people. I may not take your time long, but I'll tell you, I think a couple of the most interesting... Let us not say the most interesting, but those who create the most reflections. At the beginning of the 1990s, I had the opportunity to meet several already elderly men who played in Latvia at that time in the strongest football team, Riga RFK, in the 1930s and represented the Latvian national team. One of them (I would not name him) was honored as a war veteran in Soviet times because he had fought on the side of the Red Army. I met him, and he told me. True, we mostly talked about football, but he still told that story. ‘ In 1940, when Latvia was occupied, I and my friend Eriks, we were young, talented players of the Riga Football Club and, just as it is now, took us to a stronger team - to the Spartacus in Minsk. When the war began on June 22, 1941, we were in Minsk, and naturally we were taken into the Red Army.” “My friend Eric,” he said... and I remember that for us in school and in the magazine “Friend” he was called a communal hero. He continued: “Erick didn’t even come to the front: he died with the cholera in the hospital. Here!” You see! If we had the opportunity to talk to this football player Erika, I would say: “Don’t call me come young as a hero! Don't call me a hero! I have defended the honour of Latvia on the football field, I am a football player. And the fact that I had to die in a foreign land in a hospital because of the occupation of a foreign authority... Don’t call me therefore a hero.” If they were to say, ‘They are the wrong ones, we will not mention them!’ So I don't know... But this man I'm really talking to let me... He said: “I wasn’t a hero in the war either. I understand that on the other side was probably one of those boys with whom we played on one side of the football court, on the Latvian side, and defended the honor of Latvia in the football arenas. Now we've had to shoot each other." There you go! These are the issues that are always the right time and the right place to talk about everywhere. I'm not late for you with long stories. Another story about Latgale boy who finished Vilnius military school in 1913 and became an officer of the military Russian army. In 1915, when Latvian strife battalions were formed, he became 5. Commander of Zemgale Battalion jewellery. Later, in September 1917, as you know from history, three German divisions broke the fronts at the Daugava with the aim of passing over to Riga to get the 12th army in captivity, where there were already Latvian strife groups. 5. The Zemgale Regiment was the one who opposed these three divisions and held protection for 26 hours while it was actually grounded. There you go! And this Latgale boy was invoiced in this battle. However, the soldiers took him out, and he went to Juryev (now Tartu) hospital. He's there... Well, I don't know... When the Bolshevik coup took place, Tartu was in the area under the control of the Bolsheviks... You think this boy was asked, “What side do you want to fight now, either red or white?” I think you themselves realize that they said to him, “You are an officer, you have taken an oath.” And so this man fell into the Denykina army in Cuba and fought against the reds. So as if on the right side. Near Perekop, the men he had commanded fought against the Orlovites. So actually... See... So it must be what I... Like I said, I won't tell the spirits... I believe that these people - Rūdolfs Bangerskis, Fridrihs Briedis, Yukums Vādentis, Oskars Kalpaks, Jorģis Zemitāns, Jānis Balodis, Jānis Kurelis, Roberts Rubenis - are those who need to be talked about, but they deserve that we talk about them, so that we don't make them heroes. I therefore believe that these things are really things that can and must be talked about. And I understand that you may say that we already know all this. I can say exactly the same thing about what Mr Dambes said here: that on 11 November I have celebrated and will celebrate, regardless of whether it is a holiday or it will not be a holiday. As far as I remember, in fact, these must be the only celebrations - the official celebration - which I have celebrated in this century without exception. If on that day I am in Riga, I go to Daugavpils and put a candle... I remember a few years ago I was in Ventspils that day, it wasn’t a holiday, I had lectures that day, and the students told me: “The teacher, let’s go in a torch walk in the evening! In the evening, the torch will take place here!” And then we started talking. See! Could I talk tomorrow, reading lectures, about why, when driving through Ugāl, there is an indication “Leitnant Robert Ruben’s Battalion Museum”? Do they know what Lieutenant Ruben is? Now, if I start talking about it, they will say, “We don’t understand why you’re talking about it!” Here, on November 11, I had the opportunity to talk about it. We, at least the majority sitting in this Chamber, will celebrate 11 November, whether it is a holiday or not. For us a little sorrow! The main tribulation... Either, not sorrow, but the main concern, or priority, is the new generation. Yes, the new generation! Now I have reason to talk to students about these things and they listen. And even if much of it is not interested, they listen, and some are interested, and maybe even someone goes to this Ugāle museum to find out what Robert Rubenis was really fighting for. I also speak to first-class students who have just finished school. One very sympathetic girl just said: “We have events in school on November 11! We are talking about these things that we do not usually talk about!” What do you think, how many percent of the young people know who Rūdolfs Bangerskis was? How many know what Yukum German was? During the Soviet period, Yukums Germanis was a positive image, but Rudolfs Bangerskis could not even be mentioned, even though they were the team of both: Bangerskis - the 1st Latvian strife, the Daugavgrivas Regiment, Yukums Vāktis - 5. The Zemgale Regiment. And the fact that one was the General Inspector of the Latvian Legion during the Second World War, but Yukums Vātvis was the first commander of the Red Army - as if it were the reason why he couldn't talk about it. So I'm asking you to ask yourself again: Is the announcement of November 11 a holiday... Well, when we don't have classes in schools and universities, we'll get more or lose more? Isn't it that now the new generation hears at least once a year about these things? Yes, you will say that there are those for whom it is provided by their parents... You see, I believe that it is not even so important for them. Most important are those young people who think it's Lacples' birthday. Yeah. There is no “Latch Plate Day” in the general public, but “Latch Plate Day” in the general public. It's not Lacples Day, it's Lacples Day! That's why I really call... I am not going to say what my vote will be at this point, but nevertheless I am asking you to ask again whether we will gain or lose more by announcing 11 November as a holiday, and to evaluate it from an idea point of view rather than from a monetary point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U84	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U85	Hello, brothers and sisters! I am calling for support for the Fatherlanders' initiative and, in principle, am pleased, I am proud that they are going so well. I remember, 15 years ago, together with Raivis Dzintars we went on November 11, in torches. I just remember with honour. I also call for support to the initiative of the so-called "Ventspils Party" - 8 March to be made a holiday. And to those who say that there will not be enough money for entrepreneurs, I want to repeat one thing I said yesterday at the European Affairs Commission. Because we have allowed or allowed more than 370 thousand people to leave our country of Latvia, we have lost EUR 90 billion. Every year, because these people work elsewhere and in other economies, we lose between four and 14 billion. This was reported yesterday to the European Affairs Commission. My call is, let's get here and sort out the economy! At the moment there are proposals from the economic group on how to create these many, many jobs, because we are still going to... In the Committee on European Affairs, the rapporteurs also said that there was a 10 thousand reduction in the number of employees in Latvia every year. We welcome, arrange our economies, support this group and arrange our land! We're good owners in our land! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U86	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Vectyran.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U87	Honorary Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, I have to say that as Commander of Riga Station and Commander of Paras, I have had a connection with November 11 and, of course, November 18. It must be said that this day is particularly important. I remember, in particular, the beginning of the 1990s, when all - young and a little older, very old and very young, small and large - it was really a big celebration. I remember the times when my grandfather, my boy, took me to the Cemetery of the Brethren of Riga on November 11, when we were at home in Riga. Soviet time. The snow was and there were so many candles. So many candles at our fallen heroes! 11 November. I have to say, no one has any doubt that this should be celebrated. Of course, economic interests are also important, and many speak from this point of view without denying the importance of this day. I also want to talk about this day as a holiday. November 11 was the beginning of the destruction of Bermont's troops. In reality, November 11 was the day when the whole Baltic space... In fact, Bermont, after winning here in Pardaugava, was forced to leave the Baltics. Here was the greatest victory over Bermont. He stopped a little bit in Lithuania, and then he left. We had two enemies - the Bermont army, also known as the White Army (also known as the Whites), and the Reds, who remained on the Eastern Front. The southern front was already closed. We were going there. On the morning of November 11, calls were made in all Riga churches and people came joyfully out, laughed, rejoiced and applauded. It was a celebration for them. The festival was up to 1934. What do I want to say about some of the aspects I found here? I have met soldiers who have served in the Latvian army who have fought the First World War and the Liberation War, and they have pointed out a very significant mistake. Here, too, we are talking about Lāčplēsis Day, associating it with our different hero there - Lielvārde, on the bank of Daugava, in the fight against the Black Armor. The name “Latchplatter’s Day” is simply a mistake for one employee, since the first documents were written “Latchplatter’s Day”. It's the Lacples Day that was awarded, which won the victory. It's their day. Lace day! And we should correct that mistake. Lace day! Then it is about the release of Riga. Riga was not conceived. The left bank was occupied. And also - not completely. Left bank! What is the release of Riga that we are talking about? Guys, we gotta look tight! And we want our youth to learn... What can they learn from it? From our mistakes here? We must not allow this to happen. Let us be consistent and firm! When we prepared the parades, the old soldiers came to us, the soldiers of the Latvian army, those who really fought for Latvia in their hands with weapons, and they taught and told us how to do it, and we listened to them with a great deal. It was very important - not only to prepare purely professional these holidays, November 11, but also to hear what they are telling. The way they went... And the shoreline of 11 November, from which the attack started over the Daugava, is very important. I wrote my own report on the fact that the parade had to be done here on November 11, and then I was told: “Well, the Vectrian remembered the Soviet times and limited the parade to head here on November 11, on November 11.” Right, during the Soviet era, the parades were held here, but that is our shoreline. The Latvian soldiers fought here. Until 11 November 1940, all the flocks stationed in Riga came here in June and sang the anthem “God, bless Latvia!” and “The Lord God is our strong castle”. This is very important. We must remember these historical things. Some of the issues we are talking about here in relation to young people. Here my colleagues mentioned... He also named our heroes, and that is right. There are no events without humans. None! Our people, our soldiers at various times, have fought and strengthened our country. But it is very important that we bring this idea to the youth. On the eve of Lāčplēsis' day once, I turned on the show where the competition took place... was the question “Who was the first Commander of the Latvian Army?” Of course, Kalpaks, Balodis and Simonson were all three respectable men. Of course, they were named by the competition manager, and 60-70 percent were on Kalpaka, the rest - on Balodi, and only a few votes on Simonson. But the competition manager said, “No, Simonson was the first!” And so it all went... He's never been the first! What an army called... Yes, but the army can already be named in different ways. We had this for one moment: I wake up and I hear - July 10 is the day of the founding of the Latvian army! And congratulate each other... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I mean, what day of foundation? Of course, I'm happy to greet every soldier at any festival that is connected with us, but on July 10th... Why? Because two troops, two army groups... Two groups of Latvian troops met together and they were reorganized... This day wanted to be named Latvian Army Day. Now it is the idea to call it the Day of Latvian soldiers. And that's right! That is right! Because Ulmanis, the Head of the Interim Government, issued an order in which he thanked the Commander of the Latvian Southern Army and the Southern Brigade... Latvian Army for the South Latvian Brigade and its soldiers on the fights on the South Front, Kurzeme... on Skrunda Battle, where the officer's jewellery was named First Independence... And I've restored this flag, we've restored all the flags of the Kalpaka Battalion... Then - Kauguri battle, then - entry into Riga... The Zemitian is there, in the north... Cesis battle... And they come together... Yes, that day can be called Latvian soldiers' day. On November 11, I invite you to celebrate as a holiday with honor in your families, so that it is our day of solidarity! We should remember that a couple of 200 young guys, actually teenagers, fell here... And they are not recognized, they are buried in the Cemetery of Riga’s Brothers. They were not soldiers, they just went to help our soldiers. And they fell. We must remember that! Thank you, friends. Celebration day and soldiers' day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U88	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U89	Hello, dear colleagues! All today's speeches about 11 November face the same point as the day of celebration: all speakers as one admit that this day should be marked as a day of celebration and be a holiday. For general educational information, I would like to say that one holiday costs the state EUR 8.2 million. Currently in Latvia there are 15 holidays or “red” days in the calendar - so holidays. First - New Year's Day, January 1. Then the Great Friday, the First Easter and the Second Easter, May 1 - Works festival and the day of convocation of the Constitutional Meeting of the Republic of Latvia, May 4 - the day of restoration of independence of the Republic of Latvia, then Mother's Day, Pentecost, June 23 - Ligo Day, June 24 - John's Day, December 31 - November 18 - The day of proclamation of the Republic of Latvia, December 24, 25 and 26 - Christmas, winter sunset, December 31 - December. I think that the Employers' Confederation of Latvia would be happy to remove 1 May from this named celebration, which is the Labour Festival and the Day of Convening the Constitutional Meeting of the Republic of Latvia. In that case, we would have the same 15 celebration days. Of course, Lāčplēsis day must be a holiday; there is no doubt about it. But about the fact that there are too many holidays in Latvia... That is the fact. Consequently, a specific proposal. I hope I'm still listening... I myself will submit a proposal that on 1 May - the Day of the Labour Festival and the Day of the Meeting of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia - we could be taken out of the register of holidays. Please support this amendment to the Act “On holidays, memories and famous days”, do not argue and do not present your war stories from childhood when I was not yet born. Just support and take out on May 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U90	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U91	Honourable Members! The working day and the number of days to be celebrated. We're told that there's going to be too many celebrated days. But we also have the most mourning days in the world. We have mourning days in March, June, July, December, so someone needs to be weighed on a celebration day as well. A little bit maybe I'll tell you what we can do. But first of all, a little historical truth. Dear colleagues, Let us not get too close with Bermont, because it was not the battle with Bermont that divided the fate of Latvia. The fate of Latvia was divided by the defeat of the Soviet or Red Army and the end of the Socialist Soviet Republic of Latvia on January 13, 1920. It was possible only because the biggest battle in the struggle for freedom was won, and it was the arrival of Daugavpils, which took place from 3 to 9 January 1920, and was attended by 42 thousand united Polish and Latvian soldiers and French tanks. There were two chiefs - Edward Ridz-Smmilijs from Poland and Jānis Puriņš - President of the Eastern Front. And the irony that the 15th Russian army, namely the Red Army, was led by the Estonian August Cork. Thus, from 3 to 9 January, there was a fight for the greatest freedom, where 800 people fell one day. So if we had accepted the day of the celebration on 3 January, when this battle began, then we wouldn't have a problem: January 1, 2, right there 3. ... But since November 11 is mitogenic for us, what can we do? Because it is true that employers have actually calculated 8.2 million, and together it is only with the money that is due to be paid for working on holidays. If the bill of unproduced production and everything else, then go there already in the 13th... But I think here, Mr Dombrava and the National Association also considered this option, whether we could really leave May 1 as a celebrity day and move this solemn day to November 11. Why? Because there would be no Constitution without a fight for freedom. And here the previous speakers mentioned that on November 11 there is a very grand wave of popular uplifting – young people go and make candles in the evening... Yes, its solemn load on November 11 is incomparably higher than on May 1. Perhaps the Commission could also think about these things. But I agree: then we would have maintained some balance and would not have increased this number of celebration days. So I'm calling for a vote and a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U92	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U93	Good morning, colleagues! It's very short. 12 holidays are currently in Estonia, 13 in Lithuania. We're going to be 15 now. And let us remember that we have been postponed until October to the question of Orthodox Christmas holidays! And there's the idea of the possibility of March 8th there in culuars... The question is, of course... With these 15 to 16 days we will come up as Europe's front, but there is no reason to worry, because San Marino, for example, is 20 holidays. Another thing is that San Marino's national and economic characteristics mean that there are perhaps three full pubs on that holiday, nothing more. But to us, as we heard - and indeed it is! - One holiday costs 8.6 million. That's what it is right now. We are already celebrating 120 million a year. Of course, Lāčplēsis Day must be a holiday day, and I will vote in favour. But it said here on 1 May... This year, the day is still coming, because 30 April is a holiday... It seems to me that only Latvians are able to do so - to announce the holidays. Instead of doing a solemn job, we just make a holiday. It seems to me to be a little salt. Indeed, it would be worth thinking about May 1, although, of course, the Copmans sitting in the hall would be willing to kill me for these words, because that day starts the spinning season. But the question of whether people need to excavate for eight million is also a good question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U94	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U95	Colleagues! I think if we have a day for which we should make sure that it is celebrated, then that is the day. Because this day really is associated with events with which we have reason to be proud, which can demonstrate to us that in Latvia the power was able to create a vision, able to stand for it, able to defend it. It is a day that is associated with the fact that we were not only susceptible but also ingenious and able to defend these ideas, these values. ( Internouncing call.) Because figure out that one potential opponent can defeat another potential opponent to then defeat what helped to deal with their opponent - that is indeed an uncharacteristic technique for our people that is usually attributed to other peoples. We were able to do that! Why would it be important - it is precisely at this time that this festival is celebrated, when the existing power has become so frail, so indecent, so selfish, so much in its self-interest that it is unable to define - not only defend, but even define - the objectives that our country would achieve? Then this would be a great opportunity to remind our people and allow them to believe that our power can be different as well. And I think there would also be a motivation for the entrepreneurs that have now been talked about. Their interests were mentioned: see, they would lose as many as millions. In fact, they should have the utmost interest in such a festival. Imagine how much these entrepreneurs would gain if the power of the state were to be susceptible, skilled and ready to take care of its own country, its own people! Then these eight million that were mentioned would be simply a small fee we would pay to create for ourselves here a new political elite, people who would be ready to come and actually “burn” for their country, fight for it, be able to raise the people and reach some goals together. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for these holidays. A practical example. Imagine if a political elite like this, like now, had been in a situation when Bermont, what would they do? They would come here at the Saeima, show you figures from the gallery and start telling us why it is impossible, why we don't have to do anything, why we have to sit quietly and consolidate. We would have consolidated our country, just as we did at the time when we formed our “story of success”. Therefore, my fellow Members, I think we need such a celebration that nothing like that would happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U96	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U97	Hello, colleagues! Following this speech by my inspiring colleague Zarina, I do not have much to say. However, I would like to invite you to listen to the business community and employers also when we discuss tax policy. If we listen to them so carefully and create this tax policy as they recommend us to do, if we take care of public investment funds and public investment investments in our economic development, if we take care of cutting red tape, real reducing corruption, then I think it is 0.1 per cent a day and how many millions of euros a year we will be able to recover. And what we're going to spend to give the people a feast... Let us take care of our entrepreneurs and the development of our economy and give the people holidays! I support this project.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U98	The debate is closed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “Stop!” ) On behalf of the commission is there a need to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U99	I call on my fellow Members, on behalf of the Commission, to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U100	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - 6, for - 2. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U101	Please submit your proposals by 24 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U102	So the Commission's proposal is April 24. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Edgars Putras!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U103	Colleagues, my proposal on the deadline for submitting proposals is to be set on 5 October this year. Given that a similar draft law already has such a deadline for tabling proposals and in view of this time when we all of course want to be popular, however, I call for common sense and for 5 October to be determined.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U104	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Neimins!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U105	Yeah. Such matters do not, in my opinion, need to be dealt with at all during the pre-elections. As it has been examined, I propose 6 October as the deadline for the submission of proposals. October 6, please, that this Saeima no longer be able to drive through the populist slogans. Thank you. October 6th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U106	6 October is Saturday, but in any case the Saeima is of course working in 24/7 mode. So, honourable colleagues, there are three proposals: 24 April, 5 October and 6 October. Under the parliamentary roll of order, we must first vote on the deadline for submitting further proposals. Please call me! Let us vote on the deadline for tabling proposals on 6 October! Please, voting mode! Please get the result! For - 4, for -77, for -2. The proposal - 6 October - is not supported. Now we have to vote for the next 5 October. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the deadline for submitting proposals for this draft law - 5 October! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 51, for - 8. 5 October is not supported either. So, as I understand it, the recommendation of the Commission remains on April 24. Thank you. Before moving to the next item on the agenda, I informed you that the Bureau had received a proposal from five Members on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. This proposal has been submitted by Members Vekto Spolitis, Jānis Vucāns, Astrid Harju, Ainars Latkovskis and Atis Lejiņš, and they are asking for the next item 30 of the agenda – the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism". I understand that the reason for this is that the committee's rapporteur responsible has to go on a mission. The question is, do Members object to such an amendment to the agenda? Members shall not object. The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item is the first reading of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism’. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U107	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”. According to the report, the draft law “is designed to strengthen the financial system by reducing the number of high-risk transactions with particularly high-risk clients who are shell formations and fulfil certain characteristics, as well as to facilitate the exchange of information between law-makers and law enforcement authorities in the fight against financial crime. The purpose of the draft law is to supplement the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing... with a new article prohibiting credit institutions, payment institutions, investment firms and, as regards the management of client individual portfolios and the distribution of investment fund certificates to investment management companies, to cooperate with shell formations or shell companies with certain characteristics.’ First, there is no link between the legal person and the actual economic activity and the activity of the legal person is of little or no economic value. Secondly, in the country in which the legal person is established, the laws and regulations do not provide for an obligation to prepare and submit financial statements on its activities to the supervisory authorities of the country in question. Currently, payment services provided by credit institutions account for most of the high-risk cases of money laundering and terrorist financing. The higher risk indicators in the credit institution sector are reflected in payments made by senior clients in shell formations by foreign customers, i.e. non-residents. The prohibition contained in the draft law will not apply to institutional clients - legal entities registered in the Republic of Latvia, because the regulatory framework of the Republic of Latvia provides for an obligation to prepare and submit financial statements. Consequently, the sign set out in Section 15.1 ‘b’ of this Act is not applicable and, in the absence of one of those features, the prohibition will not apply. However, credit institutions, payment institutions, electronic money institutions, investment firms and, with regard to the management of individual client portfolios and the distribution of open investment fund units, investment management companies will have to notify their clients, shell formations, which at the same time comply with the features set out in Section 15.1(a) and (b) of this Law, of the termination or not of the business relationship within 14 days. It is provided that the accounts are closed not later than within 60 days from the entry into force of the law. The violation of the statutory prohibition to cooperate with shell formations constitutes a serious infringement and, in line with the guidelines of the Financial and Capital Market Commission, the statutory sanctions will be imposed. Consequently, the draft law aims to improve the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities and the private sector by providing an additional platform for analysis of information. The draft law provides for a framework for cooperation on the basis of the control service (this is commonly referred to as the Burkan cantor in society). This is in line with the status and mandate of the control service already established, and allows for objective control over the exchange of information. The legislative mechanism will make it possible to work more effectively on reports on suspicious transactions, facilitating their accurate use and the possibility of analysing specific cases with the involvement of the participating institutions on-site. This will significantly improve the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities as it will allow for a prior clarification of the nature of the information required and thus only the processing of data which is really relevant for the investigation of specific cases. The draft law shall not change or revoke the procedure laid down in other laws for requesting information and reporting of suspicious transactions. The solution contained in the draft law provides for an opportunity to prepare in advance for these activities. The timely provision of information on specific persons will contribute to the ability of credit institutions to terminate cooperation with clients for which the credit institution itself did not have sufficient information to identify all risks. Regarding the promotion of information exchange, an analysis of the latest models in the USA, Australia and Great Britain has been carried out, based on solutions that can be adapted to the situation of Latvia. The draft law provides for amendments to Articles 56 and 57 of this Law, further establishing that the control service shall provide information in the process of operational action of entities of operational activity, pre-trial investigation institutions, prosecutor’s office, or in criminal proceedings without an acceptance assessed by the Prosecutor General or a specially authorised prosecutor from the point of view of legality and justification. A waiver of the acceptance of the Prosecutor General or a specially authorised prosecutor is necessary to ensure a more effective exchange of information on the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing in line with FATF recommendations. So it's an organisation - a working group on international financial transactions. Taking into account Latvia's increased money laundering risks, it is necessary to provide law enforcement institutions with appropriate powers to effectively detect and investigate cases of money laundering and terrorism financing. The draft law is urgent in nature, because it was approved at the meeting of the Financial Sector Development Council on 21 March and 3 April 2018 as a matter of urgency to implement a measure for the improvement of risk-based supervision measures and a faster revision of the high-risk business model. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to recognise the draft law as urgent and to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U108	In accordance with the parliamentary roll of order, we must first vote in favour of granting urgency to the draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “I had applied! Why isn't it there?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, “) Have you applied for urgency? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Yes!” ) Yes. The first was really Artus Neitiņš, so obviously... Here one Member can talk about, one against, but... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “I can go talk?” ) Yes, Mr. Neighbours, this time the electronics failed us...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U109	Dear colleagues, I do not really understand: if the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry also does not understand why there is a need for urgency... I understand that, by nature, the draft law is necessary, and that could be... But, excuse me, if there is no debate and if there is an urgent procedure, please explain, and not simply brutally say: On 3 April there was a sitting, on 10 March there was a sitting, it decided, and that was all. But if the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry says: “No, sorry, please! Let's talk about it!” Rather than delaying time, it is because urgency means that there are only two readings. Now, if you vote in favour, this 'train' will already have run. Please, honourable Members, do not vote in favour of the urgency. No, no! Vote against the urgency to discuss this issue with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, people who are directly related to the so-called shell companies that work with it... For the rapporteur, who is now shouting from his seat, to come and tell you in concrete terms why there is a need for urgency. So please do not support urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U110	Thank you. The name of the Member, John Adamson. He's obviously going to talk about... I don't want to talk anymore. Thus, one Member has spoken against, no one has spoken for. Please call me! We will vote in favour of granting of urgency to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 27, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent. Before we vote at first reading, we need to start the debate. Name in the debate for Member Janis Adamsons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U111	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Although I was prepared to take part in the debate on urgency, (Interinstitutional call.) , because I was ahead of me (Interior call.) My colleague Arthur Neimins (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Artuss!” ), I will also debate this draft law as a whole. Colleagues! Once again we have a bill, which is an absolute brother from any point of view. In public space information is disseminated that the urgency of this law is justified by the fact that we have to fight shell companies, shell formations and so on. However, I would like to remind everyone that, one year earlier, we have amended the relevant articles of the law in question; it provides that cooperation with shell banks is prohibited in Latvia, as well as defining what are known as shell formations. What are the changes currently being proposed? These are cosmetic improvements to what affects shell formations, shell banks as such. Nothing has changed in substance. I understand why so many speakers had applied, when there was a debate on holidays and remembering days. Obviously because no recommendations were received from our oldest partners, either from Europe or from anyone else, then everyone could express themselves. At the Commission's meeting, too, during the debate on this particular draft law, virtually no debateer had questions as to whether shell banks were needed or whether shell structures were needed. We did not have a debate on this subject because already a year ago we solved all the issues related to this problem. The debate was mainly on Articles 55 and 56 of the law. But before moving to these specific articles of the law, I would also like to debate an annotation. I invite colleagues to get to know the text of the annotation carefully. Very interesting! It is written that the relevant amendments to the law do not affect the economic sector and the financial sector, nor do they affect the state budget and municipal budgets. Mr. Endzins objected that however, with shell companies (not all of them criminal) about 104 billion euros were flooded with non-residents through Latvian banks. That, it turns out, is nothing! Go on. I was personally shocked by the fact that representatives of the Ministry of Finance took and announced: “You know, the fact that ABLV Bank pays taxes of 18 million does not in principle affect the economic sector as such!” But if we calculate at least three times, it is 70 million people get into the salaries they spend here in the territory of Latvia. And so on and so on. And if these amounts do not affect economic development, then there is also a question. Next question. Is there currently evidence that ABLV Bank has actually dealt with illegal cases? No, it's not yet! But if there's no one? We took out our own bank, and none of the representatives of the government, on the part of public officials, even tried to defend our interests (as opposed to Luxembourg). But now we move to Articles 55 and 56. Listen, colleagues! What is being offered to us? It is proposed to amend the title of Article 55, which would now read as follows: “Cooperation of the Control Service with pre-trial investigation institutions, prosecutor’s office, courts, State Revenue Service and entities of law.” No one could really justify why the State Revenue Service is included here. The first part of the article states: “The control service coordinates pre-trial investigation institutions, prosecutor’s office, entity of operational activities, State Revenue Service... “ And continue as in the words. Listen to me! I ask the basic question: have we changed the rights, duties and tasks of the control service? Has something changed? How will they do so? All of this must also be seen in the context of Article 56. If at the moment, Mr. Spolish has already spoken about it, but he has noted it as a positive... At the moment there is a procedure on which we discussed a lot and a lot a year ago, and its procedure was formulated as follows: “The Control Service, in compliance with the requirements of this Law, provides information to the Prosecutor General or a specially authorised prosecutor from the point of view of legality and justification, assessed and accepted entities of operational activities, pre-trial investigation institutions, prosecutor’s office, as well as the court’s request for operational activities in proceedings or criminal proceedings.” Now in Article 56, we call for a waiver of a request accepted by the Prosecutor General or a prosecutor with special authority and his assessment. It would seem that in this case information can be requested and obtained much more quickly and efficiently. But again there is a naive question: are the officials of the control service entitled to get acquainted with the materials of the criminal proceedings or the proceedings of operational activities so as to be able to assess whether this information is really necessary for the relevant pre-trial investigation authority or someone else? No, they don't have access to these materials. They do not have access to relevant materials. I would ask you to remember that we have had one other listening scandal when other telephone numbers are recorded to justify listening to that phone or another person. What will now interfere with the misuse of this received information without evaluating the materials of the operational activity process or the materials of criminal proceedings? The urgency with which we are going to just carry out some kind of guidance, instead of defending our country's interests, including public interests, the interests of citizens... we have an urgent train ahead, and instead of introducing basic order, we create an elemental mess in our own hands. Once again, I stress that in this case we do not have to discuss what has long been adopted (shell formations, shell banks), but to debate what mess we create by amending Articles 55 and 56. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U112	Thank you. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U113	Dear members of the Bureau. Dear colleagues, I hope that Mr Artus Kaimiņš, having listened carefully to what Mr Adamson said, understood why this draft law needs urgency. Because at times of making such important decisions, there are people who simply want to continue to talk or to continue to discuss details, or to continue to talk, to listen, to think and to continue, and never to make any decisions. ( Insight: “We accepted it a year ago! ” ) It is absolutely clear that at the moment, it is absolutely the last moment that we have to take decisive decisions to clear our banking and financial sectors from what are known as shell companies, from dubious deposits from non-residents. Dear colleagues, The service of Chalus companies in the Latvian banking sector has been like a slow, terrible poison. More recently, a medium of Latvia has gathered various scandals of Latvian banks that have broken our economy. In general, since the restoration of independence, we have had 13 devastating scandals in the banking sector, which have ruined or risked the destruction of our economy and which have most affected those people who are less secure and who have lost their last savings in these banking scandals and unregulated banking sectors. Colleagues! For a long time, we had to decide not to serve shell companies in our banking sector (Dep. J.Adamson: “It has already been accepted!” ) on a strict ban on working with these non-residents' money precisely because of our reputation and the health of our economy. Every such situation causes damage to Latvia's reputation, it causes damage to the way we trust people who could invest in our economy, create jobs, as well as how people, our own people, are prepared to live here, build their families and link their future lives to Latvia. Colleagues! Indeed, it is high time to save Latvia's reputation, take this decision and completely abandon the management of shell companies and non-residents' money; their contribution to our gross domestic product is very small. And finally. Where does this money come from? Very often, this money has been abducted by societies in other countries, is not invested in the development of their societies, is not invested in education and social programmes. And these countries end up in situations where some rich people have to finance their development while some people live at the expense of the state budget. Similarly, this money comes from countries that brutally violate the international sanctioning regime, thereby jeopardising global security. Colleagues! This decision is to be adopted. We must accept this right away, and we must stop philosophiing that we must continue to talk in real Latvian style. Please vote in favour! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leiiņš: “Right!” - if you are allergic
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U114	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U115	Good afternoon! I do not doubt what this law needs to be adopted quickly, quickly. Given that all these characteristics of shell companies are already in place, and quite a long time ago, and that this law, as has already been said here, does not contain any cardinal, huge changes, I do not think that there is a long, long time for discussion here. On the other hand, my suggestion is to think about this decision... after the law has been passed... decision faster, let us say so. There are now three features that describe shell companies. The first sign. There is no demonstrable link between the company's actual economic activity, the company's activities are small or of no economic value, and the credit institution has no documentary evidence to the contrary. The second sign. The company shall not prepare and submit to the competent supervisory authorities annual financial statements on its activities. And the third sign. The company has no physical place of business but has only a mailbox or a communication address. Here's the third. It should be borne in mind that these signs have been drawn up at a time when the physical workplace was much more than today. You can work remotely, work on the Internet and the like. The first two features are mandatory for the shell company. But if there is a third sign, logically, some lawyers may insist, for example, on finding a third sign. For example, in Latvia there was one such legendary bailiff (no surname); in all her schemes there were mailboxes, for example in Delaware. In addition, the creditors and her own accounts were even in one address – without problems! In order to find out the truth, it was necessary to spend a huge amount of time writing requests for legal aid and waiting for the State of Delaware to respond to these few mailboxes. And if this point stays, I will not be surprised that there will be any offshore area that will come with know-how and will be offered, for example, small rooms, which will be a physical place of work. So, while working on amendments to this law, it may be worth considering that this third sign, which is neither decisive nor essential, simply excludes from the shell the characteristics of the companies and leaves the first two with which it is absolutely sufficient for the shell companies to be perfectly described and directed against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U116	Thank you. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U117	Dear colleagues, Four things. First thing. Such laws need to be carefully considered. Rather than insulting those who want to think about the quality of the law from the platform, think about what has been written. The second thing. If we talk about quality, then the authors of the draft law should know that there has been no pre-trial investigation authority in Latvia since 2005. At least it had to be remembered in the meantime and write the law qualitatively if it worked so carefully! It was the second moment. The third thing. I was very surprised at the sharp nature of these shell formations, which are terrible formations that have ruined our banking sector. They also added to the formations of non-residents and thus finally said that in fact, without serving these shell formations, the Latvian banking sector will flourish and the gold. I would be very pleased if the shell formations in other European countries were also denied access to the banking sector. I would like to know how many countries the Ministry of Finance has pointed out where such a sector is prohibited. And finally, the final question. In my opinion, the Commission on European Affairs should pay particular attention to the defence of human rights, because I know that you value European values in particular. A person's business secret is a human right, it's his personal life. And in this case, it would be worth listening to what Mr. Adamson pointed out as a professional person. In this case, Article 56 has a major problem with the way in which and what information will be requested from the control service. I know how strict the control service in the 1990s and early 2000s provided information to the authorities that requested something. They didn’t even always point out, they said: “In this matter you could look... “ In this case, when any operator will be able to request information from a control service, believe me: anything will be asked for. And it's not only about shell companies, it's not about criminal offences. It will simply be necessary to find out about human financial transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U118	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U119	Dear colleagues, This bill was certainly needed a long time ago, but it is needed in quality. Unfortunately, I will not talk about quality this time. I will talk about the fact that many of us have a bad memory and that recently, a few months ago, we worked and talked completely different things. When Latvia and Latvian banks were included on the black list in Ukraine, the promoters of this draft law made notes and wrote to Ukraine that Latvia was accused of being humiliated in the international arena and so on. No, no! Today we are talking about saving Latvia's reputation at the last moment. Colleagues! Things need to be done in time and do not throw the skin on the other side! Yes, this law was needed a long time ago, but quality was needed. I regret that it is precisely those who have called for protest against the arguments of their partners, which have been taken into account by Ukraine and put Latvia on the criminal list... put and punish... protest against the fact that the great Latvian friends we defend have insulted Latvia. You too, Mrs. Chiganese, are affected! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U120	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Not to be added. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 78, against - no, abstaining - 3. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U121	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 23 April of this year. And the date for the second reading - this year (interim call.) April 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U122	I'm sorry! 23 April and... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U123	April 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U124	April 26th. Members shall not object. So the proposals are on 23 April, and the second reading on 26 April. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions, first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U125	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” is under consideration at first reading. Amendments are necessary in view of amendments provided for in related laws, including amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions, which provide for the exclusion of the opinion of the Central Medical Expertise Commission of the Ministry of the Interior as a criterion for obtaining a pension. In future, receiving such an opinion will not be necessary or envisaged for national safety authorities. The draft law has been unanimously supported by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima and asked to direct the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. The draft law shall apply to officers of the Security Police who, until the entry into force of the relevant amendment to the Law on State Security Institutions, hold a special service degree in accordance with the law on service progress. Please adopt the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U126	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U127	On the deadline for the second reading of the proposals, please specify 30 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U128	April 30th. Members shall not object. Draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Lāde” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality, for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass””, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U129	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! The Legal Commission examined this draft law, previously invited interested parties, including owners and their representatives, to the Legal Commission meeting, who also arrived at the meeting. A representative of the lessee was also heard at the Commission meeting. After hearing all the parties involved, the Commission found that the factual circumstances had not changed significantly compared to the examination of the draft law at first reading. The Commission prepared one proposal, which was supported by the Commission, and this proposal relates to the fact that the part of the land to be disposed of has been repeatedly measured, registered in the Cadastral of the State Land Service, by assigning a cadastral number. Consequently, this clarified proposal is also necessary.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U130	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U131	We have examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U132	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Lāde” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass”” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - 4, for - 1. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U133	Deadline for submission of proposals - April 24, 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U134	April 24th. Members shall not object. Draft law “Amendments to law on environmental impact assessment”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U135	Good afternoon, Mr President. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment” (No 1175/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined this draft law. The main aim of this draft law is to take over the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment. The law amends the definition of environmental impact, complemented by relevant actions. It also clarifies the principles of environmental impact assessment and provides that the initiator of the action may not be the decision maker of the same action. The draft law provides that when issuing a separate order, the Cabinet of Ministers may not apply environmental impact assessment requirements for activities related not only to state protection, but also to response in civil protection emergencies and so on. Above all, these amendments do relate to the implementation of the requirements of the directive. Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, call for the urgent nature of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U136	According to the Rules of Procedure, we must first vote in favour of the urgency of the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent establishment of the law “Amendments to the law “On Environmental Impact Assessment””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U137	On behalf of the Commission, I ask my colleagues to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U138	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals as well as a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U139	We will wait until May 3, this year, and consideration of the parliamentary session at second reading - May 17, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U140	So the proposals - 3 May, and the final reading - 17 May. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law amending the law on sport, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Roman Miloslavski.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U141	Dear Members, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science continues its work on the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Sport Law”. A total of 12 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U143	2. - A proposal from the Member, Renar Putniņš. No aid was granted to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U144	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U145	3. - Member Putniņš's proposal. 9 has been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U147	4. - Member Putniņš's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U148	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U149	5. - The motion of Member Vara Krūmiņš. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U150	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U151	Hello, Saeima Presidium! Members! Colleagues! The law on sport is very rarely opened, and it would be a sin not to speak or improve sports and all the issues related to sport. I have already said here that this is precisely the draft law on the establishment of the Latvian Anti-Doping Office. My proposal was and still is - to change the exposure of the Latvian Anti-Doping Office and not leave it under the supervision of the Ministry of Health. Why? Since the President of the Latvian National Sports Council is the Prime Minister, the best solution is to transfer the Latvian Anti-Doping Office under the direct Prime Minister's responsibility. It is no secret that when major international doping scandals are held, which are usually associated with the Olympics, European championships or world championships, these scandals take place all over the world and discredit our country, athletes and sports federations, and so on. As a striking example, we can mention the Sochi Olympics, which served medals to many Russian athletes, and if I am not mistaken, about twenty of them had to separate from these medals after the Olympics. And neither the Russian President nor the Russian Prime Minister ever knew that something like this could happen in their country! And that's why it seems to me that, the higher the official will be, who will be responsible for this anti-doping system in the country and under whose responsibility this system will be, the greater the responsibility of the Latvian Anti-Doping Office. Next. Unfortunately, it is already quite clear that the amount of funding that has been allocated to the Latvian Anti-Doping Office - almost 800 thousand for this moment - will be insufficient, although it has been allocated for three years, on the assumption that each year the number of these analyses will increase and therefore the costs will increase. And if it is given under the supervision of the Ministry of Health, then the Ministry of Health will obviously have to re-allocate this budget, and it will have to do so every year. I am convinced that, under the authority of the Prime Minister, dealing with these financial issues will be much simpler and more effective. Finally, I would like to add the specific vote. We were 13 members of the Sports Sub-Commission; six voted in favour of my proposal, five voted against and two abstained. And, as Ilmārs Latkovskis mentioned here a moment ago from the pub, after this sitting, I was so good at my colleagues and acquaintances, my friends, put on my shoulder and said, "Well, man, you're a very good proposal! But, you know, unfortunately, this time we cannot support it." And now I would like to see how many sports-thinking people are in the Saeima, who still want this issue to be arranged at the highest level in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U152	Thank you. The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U153	Dear colleagues, Yeah, as it was from the drug here, one of those who probably hit the shoulder... Of course, in the field of sport and, I think, in many other areas, this is one of the most discussed issues. Once there are some major problems, long-term issues, so we always want to put all of this, let us say, under the responsibility of the Prime Minister. Of course, this is one of the discussion issues when it comes to sport in general. And one of the solutions is always to put this area under the authority of the Prime Minister. This idea would be welcome, but, of course, also real: if we were to leave all the problematic issues, so to speak under the Prime Minister, then it would probably be necessary in our country only the Prime Minister and the ministries would no longer make any sense. Therefore, colleagues, this issue must remain under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and under the direct authority of the Ministry of Health. And the Ministry of Health must also, of course, take care of the financial means to ensure this function. Of course, as my colleague also said, the situation was not flattering before the Olympics, because there was a risk that our athletes might not be allowed to start. However, these amendments, which were successfully launched and successfully driven, address these concerns. This is why all anti-doping regulations, as well as increased funding for anti-doping measures, should be taken into account in the future as well. And, of course, colleagues, as I have already said in the budget, must take care of the increase in funding for the whole sport sector. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U154	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Krumina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 11, against - 38, refraining from - 28. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U155	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was partly supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U156	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U157	7. - Member Putniņš's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U158	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U159	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U160	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U161	9. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U163	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U164	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U165	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U166	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U167	12. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Commission received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U169	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please, colleagues, we will support the draft law at second reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U170	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U171	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U172	May 3rd. Members shall not object. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U173	Honorary Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” at second reading. I note that the Working Party of the Legal Commission has also worked with these amendments and the Legal Commission itself has also examined 74 proposals in total. 1. is a clarification proposal by the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U175	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice providing for the introduction of an electronic insolvency accounting system. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U176	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U177	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U178	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U179	4. there is an explicit proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U181	5. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U183	6. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice relating to the use of an electronic system. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U184	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U185	7. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U186	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U187	I call for support for the proposal relating to the qualifications of administrators. But at the same time, I also call for attention to those proposals that I did not include at second reading due to the lack of experience. And I'm asked when we look... The Commission will not say again: this is the third reading, and so on. These are important proposals because in fact they are fighting against the fact that insolvency... I have a proposal: for insolvency to be administered, however, by people who understand something from business as well. Many people earn millions by buying an insolvent company. Now it would be at least, as we say, a step towards putting this insolvency system in order, and we would really experience that from companies that are going through this insolvency process, someone would be reborn and formed, not in this area would be a total rabbious.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U188	The debate is closed. Do you insist on the vote, Mr. Nanozol? Consequently, Members agree 7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. I have a reproof: if you speak a foreign language, you have to translate it. ( Milestones.) I hope you will be fine.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U189	Yeah, thank you. I also join in this reproof.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U190	We shall proceed with proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U191	A little comment on Mr. Nanozol... I didn't really understand... The Commission received his proposals, but they were received after the deadline, if not misleading. Therefore, these proposals are not included in the table. 8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U192	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U193	9. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U194	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U195	10. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been partly supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U196	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U197	11. is the proposal of the Legal Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U198	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U199	12. is a proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is linked to the introduction of an electronic system specifically concerning the procedure for appointing administrators. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U200	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U201	13. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U202	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U203	14 is an explicit proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U205	Proposal 15 also relates to the implementation of the electronic system and has been supported. It is a proposal from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U206	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U207	16. - a clarification proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U208	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U209	The 17th proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice is also related to the implementation of the electronic accounting system. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U211	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Partly supported, included in 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U212	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U213	19. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U214	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U215	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U216	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U217	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been partly supported, is included in 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U218	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U219	22. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U220	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U221	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U222	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U223	The proposal 24 concerns the application of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U224	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U225	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is clear. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U226	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U227	26. - a proposal of a editorial nature submitted by the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U228	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U229	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U230	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U231	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U232	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U233	29. - a clarification proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U235	30. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This is also linked to the application of that regulation and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U236	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U237	31. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U238	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U239	32. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U240	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U241	33. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U242	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U243	34. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U244	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U245	35. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice relating to the use of electronic systems. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U246	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U247	Also 36. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice - concerns the use of an electronic system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U248	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U249	37. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U250	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U251	38. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U252	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U253	39. - a clarification proposal by the Legal Office, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U254	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U255	40. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U256	Members agree. Dear Mr. Berzin! Before we talk about Amendment 41, we should, in theory, go on a break, but the Saeima Bureau has received an application from five Members - Abu Meri, Brigmanis, Zarina, Cilinski and Harju - asking that the sitting be held without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? I don't understand! And the objections? ( Milestones.) There's no objection. Consequently, the sitting is continued without interruption. We shall continue with proposal 41.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U257	41. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U258	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U259	42. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is partly supported and included in 43. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U260	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U261	43. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U262	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U263	44. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U264	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U265	45. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been partly supported, includes 46. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U266	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U267	46. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U268	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U269	The clarification is 47. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U270	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U271	48. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is partly supported and included in 49. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U272	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U273	49. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U274	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U275	The precision is 50. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U276	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U277	51. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is partly supported and included in 52. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U278	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U279	52. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U280	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U281	53. - clarification of the legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U282	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U283	54. - clarification of the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U284	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U285	55. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U286	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U287	56. - The legal commission's proposal. I would like to make a small comment on this proposal, because this proposal is linked to the next one, Mr Pimenova, which is also supported. The aim of this proposal is therefore to limit the number of persons who, together with the debtor, would be entitled to submit a single application for insolvency proceedings by paying only one deposit and one public levy. This provision requires applicants to have at least one debt on the basis of an outstanding related liability, such as a guarantee or a joint and several liability towards a debtor in excess of EUR 5000. The aim of the legislator will be to establish that, with regard to the interested parties, the court would only assess the existence of this feature. So we had a discussion in the Commission about this, and the Commission supported Amendment 56.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U288	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U289	57. - Member Pimenova's proposal, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U290	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U291	Hello, honourable Members! I thank the Commission for supporting my proposal, Amendment 57. This proposal opens a series of further proposals relating to the regulation of the insolvency proceedings of a natural person. The system of these rules applies to many of the many natural persons who have the only opportunity to get rid of over-indebtedness, to satisfy their creditors' claims and to return to their active economic life. I applied for a speech to draw your attention to the fact that at first reading there was support for a norm which made it difficult for debtors to start insolvency proceedings to achieve the objective of insolvency proceedings. It was assumed that for each person with whom the debtor lodges an application for insolvency proceedings, an additional deposit of one minimum monthly salary should be added to the insolvency proceedings deposit. This situation arises, for example, when the debtor lodges an application with the guarantor and the contested provision is particularly binding if the guarantor is a family member or another relative. Then the family will not plan its spending for the future of the family, but will pay the administrator of insolvency proceedings. The burden may even become an obstacle to applying for insolvency proceedings in general. That provision will apparently be against the aim of the law and the country's declared policy to support the family. There is no reasonable economic justification for the payment of the additional deposit. The Association of Latvian Creditors addressed me with a request to propose that this norm be excluded from the draft law. The Commission supported this, for which I thank you once again. I did not ask for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U292	The debate is closed. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U293	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say that the wording supported by the first reading could be contrary to the original aim of this regulation. That is why the Commission also supported Member Pimenova's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U294	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U295	58. - the proposal by Member Auds Berzins, which provides for an additional restriction on the application of the insolvency proceedings of a natural person. In particular, it will apply to a person who, in the last year prior to the announcement of the insolvency proceedings of a natural person, has been declared insolvent proceedings of a natural person which have been terminated without the discharge of an obligation. It should be noted here that the starting point for calculating this time limit is the court ruling terminating the insolvency proceedings against the natural person without removing the obligation. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U296	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U297	59. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice relating to the application of that Regulation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U298	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U299	60. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U300	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U301	61. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U302	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U303	62 is the proposal from Member Pimenova, which was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U304	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U305	Colleagues! My proposal concerns the deadline for the implementation of a plan for the discharge of an obligation by a natural person. Under existing legislation, the deadline for the implementation of the discharge plan shall be determined by the debtor on the basis of his expected income. The claimant’s objective is to ensure, first, that the time allowed for the discharge of his obligations is as short as possible and, second, that he is required to separate from the minimum amount necessary for the discharge of his obligations. If the debtor considers that his income will be sufficient to cover at least half of the liabilities remaining after the end of the bankruptcy procedure, the maturity of the recovery plan shall be six months. If the debtor is not able to cover half of the liabilities but is able to cover at least 35 per cent of the liabilities, the maturity shall be one year. If at least 20 per cent of the liabilities are eligible, the maturity shall be one year and six months. If even to this extent the debtor is not able to cover the liabilities, funds of one third of the debtor’s income, but not less than one third of the minimum monthly salary, will be assigned to cover the creditors’ claims. The maturity of the discharge plan shall then be one year, two years or three years, depending on the amount of the liability of the debtor. And the bigger the commitment, the longer the deadline. However, the scale prescribed by the law and described by me has been designed in such a way that paradoxical situations can arise where the redemption of more liabilities creates more favourable conditions for the discharge of liabilities than for the cancellation of less liabilities. In particular, the smaller part of the liabilities can be extinguished in the shorter term, while the relatively larger part of the smaller liabilities can be extinguished in the longer term. Such paradoxical situations will become impossible if my above mentioned conditions on discharge of liabilities, covering 35 and 20 per cent of the liabilities, will be excluded from the law and only the norm on cancellation of liabilities with one third of the debtor's income will remain. With this aim, I propose that the third paragraph of Article 155 of the law be excluded. That is my proposal - proposal 62. Please support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U306	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U307	Yeah. We talked about this in the Commission. The Commission did not have concrete practical examples, except one mentioned by a representative of the Latvian Association of Creditors, but it should be noted here that by excluding the third paragraph of Article 155, we would rather change the right of creditors to receive satisfaction of their claims within a reasonable time. I do not rule out that we will still discuss this issue at the third reading, but I am calling on behalf of the Commission not to support 62. - Member Pimenova's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U308	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 62. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 22, against - 43, refraining from - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U309	63 is also a motion from Member Pimenova, which was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U310	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U311	Dear Members, In Latvia there are execution records for the amount of 5.5 billion euros to be recovered from 450 thousand individuals. It is a huge burden which, as a stone, is kept on the bottom of the river, prevents debtors from swimming to the shore and the consumer market from gaining additional demand and economic development. And the solution is one thing: to shorten the maturity of the liabilities to debtors. As I have already said, under the existing rules, where the debtor is unable to cover neither half of the liabilities nor 35 per cent of the liabilities nor 20 per cent, funds will be assigned to cover creditors’ claims to one third of the debtor’s income, but not to less than one third of the minimum monthly salary. And then the maturity of the plan is one year, two years or three years - the greater the commitment, the longer the plan's duration. The amounts of these commitments are determined by law, respectively: up to 30 thousand euros; between 30 thousand euros and 150 thousand euros; and over 150 thousand euros. My proposal aims, firstly, to ensure that the maturity of the decommitment plan is no longer than two years and, secondly, to set only one threshold of EUR 30 000. In particular, the maturity of the decommitment plan shall be one year if the debtor’s liabilities after the bankruptcy proceedings have been completed do not exceed EUR 30 000 and two years if the liabilities exceed EUR 30 000. A faster insolvency process is easier to cope with, is easier to tolerate and enforce by the debtor, is no longer hopeless and is sufficiently planned. As a result, the debtor will not seek better solutions abroad, but will remain in Latvia. Please support my proposal in order to shorten the maximum duration of insolvency proceedings to two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U312	Thank you. The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U313	Colleagues! What Mr. Pimenova said about execution records at the bailiffs... Of course, it can be said that there is some connection here, but at the same time statistics show us now that more than 10 000 entities have used it since the regulation of personal insolvency proceedings entered into force. Question: "If anyone has not used it, why?" This is most likely due to the individual's personal desire to exercise this right. As far as the proposal in question is concerned, it is, in fact, aimed at those debtors with a high level of indebtedness. It should certainly be pointed out here that these debts are not only vis-à-vis credit institutions but also vis-à-vis other legal entities, utility providers and also natural persons. Given that Latvia is currently one of the most liberal countries in the European Union in terms of regulation of insolvency proceedings, we must bear in mind that the aim of the law is to balance the interests of creditors and debtors. Of course, we need to think about the part of the company that is in such a debt situation, but we must not forget the interests of creditors either. Moreover, when it comes to the fact that Latvia has liberal regulation, it must be pointed out that Latvia in a way exports bankruptcy to Lithuania, because many Lithuanian citizens are going to go bankrupt to Latvia. What the legislator has done... I would like to add... In the meeting of the Commission we drafted amendments to the People's Income Tax Law and sent them to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission with a request to direct these amendments as amendments to the Commission. And these amendments are about extending the deadline for... in order to substantially facilitate the conclusion of an agreement between persons and credit institutions in cases where persons, i.e. debtors, do not have property to be directed towards recovery, providing accordingly that this exemption from payment of personal income tax will remain... Well, in our opinion, it was another two years, but it is certainly a subject for discussion. I think that the more liberal we will make this regulation, the more cases... I don't know if Mr. Pimenova has studied... Maybe it's not... We can see that in practice about 90 percent of debtors receive one minimum monthly salary in insolvency proceedings, except for those working in public administration. So the question is, is it the truth, or has anyone studied it, monitored it? This question remains open, and I think that this situation is not really good and certainly is not in line with the aim of the law. And, in my opinion, this proposal will contribute to an even more irresponsible commitment and will in no way contribute to the protection of creditors' interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U314	Thank you. The name to Member Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U315	Mr. Berzins's speech was very instructive and informative, but I... This must certainly be taken into account. The fact that a large part of the debtors who have applied for insolvency proceedings then pay only that part of the minimum income, which is no higher... not less than one third of the minimum monthly salary does not mean that they are all cheating; in fact, this must be proved. It's a separate process, a separate story. But I would like to say that the fact that only less than three percent of all debtors have applied for insolvency proceedings proves that insolvency proceedings are, to a large extent, not available to them. That staying in the process over three years is sometimes very difficult and perhaps impossible. And debtors prefer just to go abroad. But without insolvency proceedings, there is in fact no alternative to existing legal technologies, how can you solve your problems, in any case achieving a balance with creditors. But I think that the third reading will be accompanied by proposals that will certainly be useful, and the chair of the commission will agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U316	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U317	The Commission did not support this proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U318	Thank you. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 63. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 23, against - 48, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U319	64. - Mr Pimenova's proposal, which was not supported by the Commission. Here, it was identified (Interface: “Vote!” ) as if a problem, but as we found at the committee meeting, it is more related than administrative... not claims for unauthorised conduct arising out of administrative offences or damage in criminal matters, but claims for recourse by insurers. The Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U320	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 64. - Member Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U321	Thank you. 65. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U322	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U323	66. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U324	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U325	67. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U326	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U327	68. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is partly supported and included in 69. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U328	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U329	69. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U330	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U331	70. - a precise proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U332	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U333	71. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U334	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U335	72. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U336	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U337	73. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice laying down transitional provisions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U338	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U339	74. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which sets the time for entry into force of this law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U340	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U341	Colleagues! We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law on Amendments to the insolvency law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U342	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U343	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U344	May 3rd. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U345	Colleagues! This draft law is partly related to the just supported draft law on amendments to the insolvency law. 1. and the Legal Office... 1. out of 58 proposals is a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U346	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U347	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U348	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U349	3. - clarification of the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U350	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U351	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U352	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U353	5. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U354	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U355	6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U356	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U357	7. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U358	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U359	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U360	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U361	9. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U362	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U363	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U364	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U365	11. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U366	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U367	12. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice relating to the introduction of a new framework for the enforcement of creditors' rights to deal more quickly with disputes in insolvency proceedings. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U368	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U369	13. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U370	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U371	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U372	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U373	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U374	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U375	16. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U376	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U377	17. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U378	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U379	18. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U380	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U381	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U382	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U383	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U384	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U385	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U386	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U387	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U388	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U389	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U390	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U391	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U392	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U393	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U394	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U395	26. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U396	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U397	27. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U398	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U399	28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U400	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U401	29. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U402	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U403	30. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U404	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U405	31. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U406	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U407	32. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U408	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U409	33. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U410	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U411	34. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U412	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U413	35. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U414	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U415	36. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U416	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U417	37. - the proposal by Member Auds Berzins, which is related to a similar proposal in the insolvency law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U418	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U419	38. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U420	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U421	39. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U422	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U423	40. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U424	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U425	41. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U426	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U427	42. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U428	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U429	43. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U430	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U431	44. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U432	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U433	45. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U434	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U435	46. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U436	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U437	47. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U438	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U439	48. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U440	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U441	49. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U442	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U443	The 50th and subsequent individual proposals already relate to a subject other than insolvency, namely the transfer of additional functions to bailiffs. This is linked to the implementation of the Hague Convention of 1965 - the service of documents. That is the 50th proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U444	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U445	The proposal is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U446	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U447	52 is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U448	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U449	53 is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U450	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U451	54. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U452	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U453	55. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U454	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U455	56 is the proposal of the Minister of Justice for entry into force. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U456	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U457	57. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U458	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U459	And 58. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U460	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U461	Colleagues! We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U462	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U463	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 3 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U464	May 3rd. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law amending the law on the movement of dangerous goods, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U465	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods” (No 1189/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined this draft law, and the nature of the draft law is very simple. The third paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods provides that issues relating to the movement of dangerous goods and its monitoring in the field of road transport are governed by the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road (the so-called ADR Convention). Although the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture in the field of ADR has been established, there have been situations of different interpretations when taking measures to combat African swine fever, including cases where these carriers have been punished for failing to meet all the requirements of the ADR Convention in situations where the consequences of African swine fever had to be dealt with operationally. And the Directive also provides for such derogations for Member States to ensure such activities and immediate action (especially in the event of outbreaks of infectious animal diseases). The Member State may then deal with such matters within its own competence. Moreover, these amendments to the law provide for the handling of the case in order to make it absolutely clear that, in such cases, where operational and rapid action is needed to prevent the disease from occurring, those requirements need not be met and that these movements are controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Food and Veterinary Department. The Commission proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. And justification - mainly so that in future, if such situations arise, there are no misunderstandings. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U466	Thank you. First of all, we must vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U467	Thank you. Colleagues, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U468	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals as well as a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U469	Deadline for submission of proposals - 3 May. The date of the second reading is 17 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U470	Proposals - 3 May. And the second reading, on 17 May. Members shall not object. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Immigration’, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U471	Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law on amendments to the Immigration Act. The merits of the draft law are related to the need to take over the Directive 2016/801 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of research, studies, traineeships, voluntary work, student exchange programmes or educational project and the work of a migrant woman. At its meeting on 8 August 2017, the Cabinet of Ministers instructed the Minister of the Interior to prepare amendments to the Immigration Law, providing for the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure for storing and destroying data and documents related to the issuance of visas. It is essential that that Directive be transposed by 23 May 2018 at the latest. The main value of the directive is mobility within the European Union, as it provides for the possibility for researchers and students to stay in Latvia under visas and residence permits issued by other Member States of the European Union. The law includes definitions of the terms ‘voluntary’, ‘trainee’, ‘student’ and ‘researcher’, as well as a new term ‘ pocket money’ which has so far not been used in regulatory acts. It is intended to grant unrestricted access to the labour market to foreigners studying in a Master’s or Doctoral Programme. It is concluded that the number of these immigrants will not pose a risk of illegal migration, nor will they unduly affect the labour market of Latvia. The draft law provides for the possibility of withdrawing the residence permit if the conditions laid down in the allocated employment right are not met. The draft law also addresses other needs identified in the sector, which have been discussed by the Commission. One would be to deal with the right to a temporary residence permit in cases where a person has a tax debt but is repaid according to a schedule established by the tax administration. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption examined the draft law at its meeting on 18 April this year and supported it. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U472	Thank you. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U473	At a time when there are many challenges to be addressed in the home affairs system, it is not very clear why the Ministry of the Interior is so focused on promoting immigration in Latvia, opening up new and new opportunities to enter and work here for people from third countries in various ways. This draft law creates new opportunities for these persons to enter Latvia. Given that the country of origin of immigrants is often at a high level of terrorism, it is not understandable why the Security Police has not participated in the drafting of the law. It is also not understandable why the section on budgetary impact does not evaluate the costs that will be incurred by the security authorities when assessing initial applications and then monitoring the future activities of these persons in Latvia. ( Milestones.) There are already a lot of Uzbek and changers with secondary education who represent students, but their real goal is not to study but to work. The authors of the draft law have offered to liberalise these norms: in future, it will be possible to register as a student in a low-cost study programme, not to study for one and a half years, but to work at the same time. Then he can change the study program and again for one and a half years pick kebabus. And so he can continue this procedure until at one point he is already entitled to a permanent residence permit in Latvia. ( Milestones.) However, this draft law contains another risky norm, perhaps more dangerous than this. The draft law provides for the granting of long-stay visas to volunteer workers. Other draft law: ‘a volunteer who, without remuneration, with the exception of reimbursement of expenses and/or pocket money, participates in a voluntary work programme financed by the European Commission or an international organisation for non-profit purposes which is of general interest’. ‘ Cabat money’, ‘programme financed by an international organisation’, ‘in the general interest’. In my opinion, authors should provide an explanation of these leaking concepts, because the only thing that can be found in it is that the term " pocket money" (i.e. quote) "means that the organisation responsible for the voluntary work project is entitled to pay the volunteer not only financial resources to cover the various costs associated with the project (road, insurance, visa expenses), but also a small amount for personal expenses". The draft law does not define this amount. What is this small amount? Ten euros per month, 100 euros per month or 1000 euros per month? Nor does it explain which projects financed by international organisations would be acceptable to Latvia and how we will determine the common interest. I allow the authors of the directive to have thought about various charitable organisations that would help a certain part of society. But what to do if an international organisation is, for example, “The World Without Nazism” or Rossotrudnečestvo, who are paid (from the Group SAVE: “Translated! Translation!’ ) The volunteers are ready to travel to Latvia to support the part of the society that suffers from the "renewal of Fascism" or an international Muslim organization that is ready to send several hundred radical Islamic preachers to Latvia? The Directive provides for the possibility to very much limit the classification of this volunteer worker, but the draft law proposed by the Ministry of the Interior does not. The question is: do we want to open new immigration gates to Latvia through volunteering opportunities, which can in essence be a well-paid job from various public organisations in third countries? Given that Latvia has to transpose the European Union directive, we should support these amendments at first reading, but at second reading we should make major changes to the existing draft law so that we do not regret today's mistakes a few years later.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U474	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U475	I call on Mr Dombravas to submit amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U476	So, as I understand it, the Commission calls for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U477	The Commission calls for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U478	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U479	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 10 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U480	May 10th. Members shall not object. Thank you. Draft law “Strengthening of forced divided property in privatised apartment houses”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U481	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses”. I'll briefly tell you what the bill is about. The draft law will apply to more than three and a half thousand apartment houses, which together form more than 100 thousand apartment buildings and are currently located on approximately seven and a half thousand land units belonging to other persons. To date, legislative amendments to regulate forced divisional property do not solve the problem of the substance of forced divisional property, i.e. they do not contribute to the implementation of the uniform principle of the building. The draft law provides for the right to purchase without a time limit for the owners of privatised apartment buildings and they will be able to exercise these rights at any time. It is planned to waive the strengthening of the mortgage in favour of unpaid owners of apartments by introducing the concept that the right of redemption has been exercised, if a decision on the exercise of these rights has been taken in accordance with the procedure laid down by law and during the period of validity of the purchase price the entire purchase price has been paid into the account of the sworn bailiff. The draft law also provides for an opportunity for the State to provide support to the owners of apartments to raise funding for the payment of the purchase price. Several models were discussed in the working groups and it was decided to entrust development of more specific, more precise regulation to the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law in this case creates a fast, effective legal mechanism that owners of residential apartments under forced shared ownership could use to terminate forced shared property with the land owner. In this case, we are essentially interfering in legal relations between two persons, but the European Court of Human Rights has recognised that the legal framework created with the aim of ensuring greater social justice on housing, even if such a framework interferes with existing legal relations between individuals and does not directly benefit the state and society, achieves a legitimate objective, which is also the subject of this draft law. It must be said that the draft law does not, in itself, provide for the setting of a purchase price below the value of the land to be bought out. It provides for the setting of a purchase price which is reasonably linked to the value of the land, even if this compliance is not fully identified on a case-by-case basis. Thus, the purchase price stipulated in the draft law is to be considered as fair remuneration in the context of Article 105 of the Satversme. The process itself. At first, residents of the apartment house meet for the first meeting to initiate this question. Next the authorised person goes to the municipality to determine the functionally necessary size of the plot, which will also be the one to buy this house. With this information about the size of the plot, the authorised person travels to the State Land Service and the State Land Service determines the cadastral value of the plot. The next meeting is then held, where residents can decide to combine the land with the apartment’s property. And if the decision is positive, the next sworn bailiff takes all actions so that the land owner receives money and this property right is strengthened in the single national computerised landbook. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Latkovsky: “Let’s vote! Sounds good!” ) I would like to thank you (Dep. A.Kimiņš: Valaini! ) all the ministries and non-governmental organisations which participated in the drafting of the law, and in particular the Ministry of Justice and the officials of the Ministry of Justice, Dagnija Palčevska and Tom Drek, for the very great work they invested in this draft law. Thank you. That's all for me at first.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U482	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Klementjevs: “You have been three times!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U483	A healthy and desirable child, colleagues, can be born only in nine months. Unfortunately, this law seems to have been undesirable, hasty and adopted with problems. On behalf of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, I would like to remind you that the Constitution contains the provisions of the United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which provides for the right of every individual to an apartment and obliges countries to achieve the proposed rights for each of them at maximum - I stress - maximum! - within available resources. Consequently, everything that complicates and undermines people's right to housing should be avoided so that disproportionate, non-lethal costs, irresistible costs do not make people leave their only homes. The huge communal payments, the planned set-up of tenants from denationalised houses on the street, the carefully planned plot of land for speculators and the repression of banks are unacceptable. Example: Yesterday I met with the inhabitants of Krišjānis Baronas Street 143/2. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “With whom? What is their name?’ ) A small, small two-room apartment rental fee for pensioners is 70 euro per month. And that's all just... I have to stop this waste! It is necessary to remove these misappropriation rights for the rental of persons who may extort abnormal, inadequate sums of money for the purpose of residence, putting people at risk of being put away from their homes. Only historical heritage would be the right to land (the head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) , and that right should also be limited to the interests involved, in order to ensure that the right of residence of the other party is respected. The split property undoubtedly makes it difficult and restricts the management of the property. That is why, with the help of this bill, which is necessary, but which must be substantially improved, it is absolutely necessary to find a solution that will finally sort out the absurd situation of land lease, which exposes more than 300 000 people to repression and the threat of being laid out of the only house, the only property. As such, it is linked to the legitimate demands of citizens. I would like to remind you, as this law is currently lacking: no one has seen accompanying documents, but this law is only acceptable, along with the new and just methodology for real estate valuation, which must be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. I am “for” this law, but that, to say, complexes must go along with documents. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U484	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U485	Dear colleagues, To be honest, I could also join Mr. Schic and start weeping, because so many tears went through my heart and soul, hearing complaints from the “happy” owners of 100,000 privatised apartments who live on land owned by another owner, that they could actually sew, weep, break their fingers, arms and everything else! But I think it is very important for Parliament, however, to try to correct the mistakes made through Parliament and through the hands of the parliament in the early 1990s. Unfortunately, we will not be able to repeal and invalidate the provisions adopted in the 1990s. Today, however, we must do all we can to show people the opportunity to tackle these problems. Unlike the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Justice, which is circulating (i.e. the law on the liquidation of shared property), the proposed option determines not the termination as such, but the procedures that can ensure this case. And if there really is state aid in this process, then it will also be less painful for those owners who decide to initiate this case. Because here again - unlike the previous option - the free choice of people who are in such a situation is maintained. It is therefore important to start work on a new law that is not an alternative to the one that was drafted by the Ministry of Justice and submitted. This is another law that determines - I repeat! - the process. This is very important because there are also large ones - I do not want to say that it is comprehensive, but I say that quite large! - social guarantees for owners of privatised apartments. It's not taken away from the other law either... the second and third laws, which now the Constitutional Court... The amendments that we all supported in a very friendly manner were declared invalid as of May next year. We will also continue to work on these laws in order to identify circumstances that, if forced lease relationships remain, would not become an intolerant burden. I call for support for this draft law at first reading and call on all colleagues, regardless of the Commission they are working on, in which area they were elected to the Saeima, to participate in this work in order to improve this draft law, because it is really important, indeed important. This law will also depend to a large extent on the budget for the following year and years. It would therefore be very important, when working on the draft budget, not to forget the rules laid down in this law, which will require budgetary support, and if we adopt this law, to link the examination of the budget to the fulfilment of the requirements of this law as well. I call once again for support for the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U486	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Short, Valaini!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U487	Mr. Schic, in response... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Thank you!” ) This working group was attended not only by representatives of the ministries, but also by representatives of the owners of the apartments, including the addresses you named (Internal references.) ... from others. A whole society has been formed, which also supported the further progress of this draft law. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U488	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U489	Proposals should be submitted by 18 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U490	May 18th. Members shall not object. Dear colleagues, The last item on the agenda of today's agenda is "Preview of draft decisions". Draft decision “On change of the date of review of the review of the review of the law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” (No 834/Lp12) of the Saeima sitting from April 19, 2018 to April 26, 2018.” Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the change of the date of review of the review of the review of the law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” (No 834/Lp12) of the Saeima sitting from 19 April 2018 to 26 April 2018”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The entire agenda has therefore been examined. But today it was yet to be... I'm sorry... replying to Members' questions. And I would like to inform you that a written reply has been received to Members Morozova, Stepanenko, Ivan Klementyeva, Krumina and Miloslavska's Minister for Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. The question is entitled ‘On the Head of Study and Science Administration’. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Lazareva, Ivana Klementyeva, Stepanenko, Morozova and Jakimova is addressed to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On Quality Control of Education and Competitiveness of the Education System” by Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis. Applicants are partially satisfied with the written answer and do not want to ask any further oral questions. Therefore, today's replies to Members' questions will not take place at 17.00. Two new questions have been received. One of them is addressed to the Minister for Economics, Arvil Asheraden, and the authors are Members Zarins, Arthur Rubiks, Morozovs, Orlovs and Adamsons. The question is ‘On licences issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to sell electricity within the framework of mandatory procurement’. This question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. And the second question, “On the answer given by the Ministry of Transport in connection with the “School of Pilots”” is addressed to the Minister of Transport Uldis Auglims. This question has been raised by Members Zarins, Arthur Rubiks, Potapkins, Raimonds Rubiks and Adamson, and is being referred to Minister of Transport Uldis Auglims. Therefore, honourable colleagues, it is time for registration. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U491	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Not registered: Ints Dālderis, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Nellija Kleinberga, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Atis Lejiņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Ināra Mūrniece, Artis Rasmanis, Romualds Ražuks, Veiko Spolitis, Juris Šulcs, Jānis Trupovnieks, Jānis Vacāns and Mihails Zemļinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-19-PT12-476-U492	Thank you. Thus, I declare closed the sitting of the Saeima on 19 April 2018.
