ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U1	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on February 1, 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission requests to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” (No 984/Lp12) until 5 February 2018.” Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Juris Viļums, Edwards Smiltēns, Mārtiņš Šics, Rihards Melgailis, Jānis Ruks, Arvīds Platopers and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “On Public Access to Criminal Law No.16870000911 materials”. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U2	“In the 20th century, Latvians played rounds. The Aces were strong. Not every one of them in the forehead. But now is the time when both big card players have to find.” They've been found. It has been found, but the trial has not yet been held over them. That's it! We're nothing like that... We don't want a big court. We demand to be masters over our land. That is the only requirement. Colleagues! Perhaps you have misunderstood. These words are not about the oligarch talks at the hotel “Rīdzene”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Evaldas Walters!” ) These words were given on November 11, 1988, when I was only four years old. The author of these names was the first to receive a passport of a citizen of the re-established Republic of Latvia. And, having said these words, he, with his own hands, drew the red-white flag in the Holy Spirit Tower of Riga Castle. It was Evald Walter. That's right! Since that day, colleagues, proudly began to spread the flag's mass justice - after 50 years of injustice. 30 years have passed, but these words have a different meaning if they are read in the context of the “Rīdze Talks. ” At the time Evalds Walters talked about an agreement that brutally changed the fate of all Latvia and every Latvian. On the distribution, which was enshrined as an agreement in the Molotova-Ribentrop Pact on theft of Latvia for 50 years, the first of which was bravely lit by Mavrik Wolfsons and made available to the Latvian people. For several months now we have been talking again about theft of the state, about the agreement and distribution, which may have had a significant impact on the whole decade in Latvia's latest history. I call for this mistake to be avoided, as has been the case with so-called cheque bags, which we will finally only open this year. For for decades there continued to be a slump in society: “What is in there? Open or not?’ That is exactly what will happen to these negotiations, colleagues. It is clear to all of us that the parliamentary commission did not make a great deal of discoveries or that the substance of this case was not being taken. And, most likely, this opportunity was missed in the investigation process already before the law enforcement authorities. But society will not forgive if it is packed and transported deep into the archives. Therefore, on behalf of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, I call for making available by 1 May of this year all criminal proceedings No.16870000911 materials, including audio recordings. Undoubtedly, we are calling for sensitive personal data, information on the place of residence of those involved in criminal proceedings and on telephone or other means of communication numbers, as well as personal identification numbers. The name of the persons involved in criminal proceedings should not be considered as sensitive to personal data within the meaning of this Law. Alternatively, a form of expression of persons would not be considered sensitive or skilful. These materials may need to be published with their accompanying comments (variously these additions may be). Colleagues, that is all we need to decide. This draft law may still need to be improved, and perhaps it may also be well clarified in legal terms. But now it is a symbolic decision - to hand over this bill to the parliamentary committee so that it can start work. Colleagues! In order for society to be able to trust its politicians, politicians must first learn to trust society. Putting the case to public scrutiny in society would be the only possible added value at the moment and a meaningful outcome for this injustice. What does Latvian society expect? The same as our Olympics, when the Russian Federation stole the Olympic Games and the medals we won with doping. But there's a difference. In this case, there was a restituation - justice was restored. People long for early or late truth to come to light, and justice is once again proud of the flag. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U3	“Pret” has applied to speak to Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U4	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to see Mr Smilten. I cannot take the computer and read my speech, because I saw this proposal three minutes ago. And the first surprise is that I saw Mr. Schic's signature. Mr. Schitz, who didn't want anything to be made public at all, resisted all the time! I am glad that the times are changing, the times are going on, and he too, working for six months in the Commission, has understood that society has the right to receive information. Our group works. Our group is working on proposals that will really help to solve the problem. And our proposals will have two laws, because we need to publish the relevant case-files, negotiations, and we need to establish a general framework. But now... I understand that there are elections coming, and some politicians would now want to show their... I am pleased with the proposal that has been tabled. But, colleagues... OK, you didn't see the content, but... Mr. Schics had the right to travel to the KNAB and perhaps more frequently to understand that there were 117 volumes in the criminal case. And that includes... To make you understand... For example, in order to obtain information on which bank accounts are held, all banks are sent a request. Go on. For example, to find out if a notary has not been visited, all notaries are asked, and notaries answer: “We have not had this lord.” I'm sorry! What is the need for society to read that information, and what is the need to spend money on digitising it? For example, there are such materials as Mr. Lemberg's calendar, the day planner. Do you think it is important to publish it? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībena: “Yes!” ) Well, wait! I understand, society... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “We demand!” ) Of course. I'm... Colleagues, dear people, I understand your desire to show the public your determination, and I think it is necessary to do so. I have no doubt about the goal. I'm on this regulation with both hands. But now you're... You are now playing a clean policy, and you had to... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You are in two fractions at the same time!” ), you had the opportunity to draw up a more qualitative document. I didn't have a chance today to talk... We have a very limited opportunity to debate, because one speaks for, one for, one for, one for. I took the opportunity to tell you about significant shortcomings in your proposal. But I do not urge you to support it. We will prepare our proposals, which will be much better, I hope, and we will also submit them, but nothing prevents this draft law from moving forward as well, and then people will appreciate it. So, colleagues, let us vote, let us move forward with what we have, but let us think about a better solution. ( Milestones.) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U5	Since Mr Judin has spoken against, we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft law “On Public Access to Criminal Procedure No. 16870000911 materials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. Consequently, changes are made to the agenda of the sitting and the draft law is included. The Members Abu Meri, Upenieks, Dalder, Straujuma, Harju and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include a draft decision on the withdrawal of the Member Jānis Upenieks from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members of the Committee of the Regions, Mr Abu Meri, Mr Upenieks, Mr Dalder, Mr Straujuuju, Ms Harju and others are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting “On the election of Mr Janis Upenieks to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law presented by the Cabinet “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement” to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Promotion and Protection of Mutual Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement” to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detaining Persons” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees’ presented by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On Public Access to Criminal Law No.16870000911 materials” submitted by Member Viļuma, Smiltēna, Šics, Melgailis, Ruka and other Members be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. On the agenda - draft decision on the call for sanctions for persons involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case. The Foreign Affairs Commission has submitted its own proposal - the draft decision on the call for sanctions for persons involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( Independence: “There is no objection! None!’ ) Are there any objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) Which Members have reservations? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Calnozols has applied for a debate.) Mr. Nanozol, you have reservations? No, there is no debate, sorry. So Mr Nanozol has reservations. So... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G. Kūtris: “I have reservations.” ) And Mr Kūtra has reservations. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal in the next one (Interface: 'There is no objection!'). ) on the agenda of the current sitting. ( Interface: “Who has reservations? ” ) Mr Kūtra has reservations and Mr Kalnozol has reservations as well. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Kūtri, do you have objections?” ) We must therefore act in accordance with the procedure: if at least one Member has an objection (in this case there are two Members), we must decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “On the procedure!” ) On the procedure - Mr Kola. Please turn on the microphone for Richard Cole!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U6	Thank you, Presidium. I call, however, for consistency in our work when examining draft laws or draft decisions to be included. And for me, the simple question: why is it in the process of examining this draft decision that such a break is held in order to see whether Members have objections or no objections? ( Interface: “But it wasn’t! ” ) At the beginning of this Saeima sitting, we went quite smoothly: are included, not included... But here we are still discussing, looking for: object, somebody! ( Interface: “The Bureau objected! ” ) However, from the procedural point of view and from the functioning of the Saeima... Yeah, it's not a direct violation.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U7	It's not about the procedure, Mr. Cole! Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Cole. Yeah. If there are objections to the medicine: there are no objections, then the head of the meeting should be clarified (Speaking noise, intermediate calls. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) whether or not there is an objection by Members. So here we find that two Members have reservations, and we have to decide further, in line with the roll of order of the Saeima. ( Milestones.) And? Yes, there are objections to Member Gunaras Kūtris. We must therefore vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft decision of the Saeima “On call for sanctions for persons involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case” in the agenda of the Saeima's next ordinary sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. Consequently, the draft decision is on the agenda for the next ordinary meeting. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision on admission to Latvian citizenship on special merits for Latvia's good. On the agenda - draft decision “On taking Oleksandra Pinčuks in Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, Member Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U8	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On 13 October last year, the parliamentary committee on citizenship, migration and cohesion of society received an application from the Ukrainian citizen, born in Donecka, Oleksandr Pinčuk with a request to grant him citizenship for special merits in favour of Latvia. Together with these documents, the Commission received a letter of recommendation from the Latvian Modern Fifths Federation, which welcomed the participation of Mr Pinčuks in competitions and training at a high level, as well as the desire to start in the Latvian Olympics in the 2020 and 2024 Olympics. The Olympic Committee of Latvia has supported the efforts of Oleksandra Pinčuks to acquire Latvian citizenship. It follows that the biggest merits of Oleksandra Pinčuks are potential that the athletes will be able to give in the composition of the Latvian Olympics in high-level international competitions. So far, sporting merit. Oleksandr Pinčuk has been a multiple-time champion of Ukraine in a modern pendant. In 2013 won 23rd place at the European Championship. 2017 won 15th place in the Polish Open Championship, second place in the Latvian Open Championship on 21 January, and second place in the Riga Open 2018. The Commission received an opinion from the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs on the fact that according to the requirements of the Citizenship Law there are no formal obstacles so that since 2016 the Latvian resident Oleksandrs Pinčuks could receive Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia. The Commission of Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity listened to Oleksandra Pinčuka and appreciated his motivation to acquire Latvian citizenship and represent Latvia internationally. Members of the Commission also welcomed his level of Latvian language skills. In his application, Mr Pinčuka has expressed his readiness to renounce Ukrainian citizenship if he is granted Latvian citizenship. The applicant has given a pledge of trust to Latvia and has signed it. Almost all members of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity supported the admission of Oleksandrs Pinčuks to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia. On behalf of the Commission, please accept Oleksandr Pinčuk in Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U9	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U10	Good afternoon! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, I have been a coach for my whole life, connected with sport, and I have both positive and negative examples in this area. As negative, I can probably mention... At the time, the Saeima granted citizenship to Troy Ostler, an American, a Latvian basketball player, who later took six games in this team and later completely and definitively left the sports scene. At the same time, probably for the Russian team... Before that (I forgot the surname of this player) helped to win the title of the European champion. He started playing in Riga “SWH/Brokens”. The examples are different. I'm just here... I even allow prospective, good athletes who come to live in Latvia to be granted citizenship. But not on this basis – “for special merits for Latvia”. Yes, he has well started European championships, he has represented Ukraine, okay! But why is this expression “for special merits for Latvia”? Now we need to change some point across the legislation and provide that young, talented and prospective athletes who come to live here are ready to stay in Latvia and represent our country, can give and grant citizenship. But not for special merits, because for this moment he has done absolutely nothing for Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U11	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U12	Dear Members, As a former fiancé, I want to totally and completely decipher the fiancée at the moment. Last time, we voted in favour of the five-fighter Ruslan Nakonechny, which has a great deal of success today as well. Time has passed, and generation shifts are taking place in the modern stage of Latvia. I hope that there will also be a change of generations in the Saeima, as in the modern attire. This decision must be supported. This guy is 22 years old. He lives in Latvia for two years, he is a Ukrainian citizen. Ukraine does not give him the right to start, because Ukraine has its own policy. In this way, they hold the best athletes - the citizens. They're stopping. But if we already have a chance to get a good fiancée who is loyal to our country and speaks Latvian, then I do not see why we do not grant citizenship to a man who is 22 years old, who will actually carry our country's name further in the world. If you do not know what the modern ditch of Latvia or the modern ditch of any other country is, please look at the “mother gag”! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U13	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U14	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In my opinion, we have recently developed such a bad practice: when we vote for specific candidatures of judges, we wish a judicial system. Now we have to go with the amendments, with the initiatives and amend its justice system, not with the judge in question. And later, let's say, he walks all his life... Now we're going to give him special merit, I think, to a respected sportsman citizenship, and we're actually giving him a bad luggage once again... I didn't want to call Valdis Kalnozols in this way... I mentioned him as an example. Once again, we are giving him this bad luggage on the way - instead of talking about its wording -'special merits'. I remember, 15 years ago, I worked at the Ministry of Justice, and I was persecuted by one citizen... Sheratyev... I don't remember the word. He was also granted special privileges because he, as a stamer, went to the Members and asked for these necessary signatures. After he got on the special merit of citizenship, he stood at the Fund Exchange with a poster “I want to be a horse!” , because at that time there was a Bushmaster horse scandal. He wrote letters to the Minister of Justice to be granted the status of a horse, because horses in that country care for more than people. That was crazy. With this example, I simply call upon you, perhaps really, to think about this wording:'special merits'. But we don't need to drive the personalities on every single occasion! I hope that Mr Nunozole and Mr Krumins will eliminate my concerns and that the athletes will not offend them. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U15	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. ( Insight: “Come on, come on! Let's vote!' ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U16	Now we are not leaving the subject, Mr Ringold Baloža, please! Don't come here... I would like to remind you once again: successful people talk ideas, failure people. But, Mr Ringold Baloža, I sent you the proposals to sort out the system. You ignored them. Why?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U17	The name to Member Varis Krumins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U18	Again. You know, in principle, if we look at the whole Latvian sports system, how all sport takes place in Latvia, then we have to say that this granting of Latvian citizenship to athletes from other countries is a weakness of our sports system, if we speak honestly. Because it's real... I will say this: there has been no Latvian basketball team, no foreign player is playing, and we are strong with what we have. We have a system, we work, we build our own players, we don't need anyone from the side. In sports, for which this system is probably not correct, the following additions are needed, such bonuses. Well, let's go! We naturalize people in all sports without results, and - go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U19	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U20	In this case, the norms of citizenship law do not allow Oleksandr Pinčuks to naturalize according to the usual procedure, and the norms of citizenship law, which are currently in force, do not provide for other granting of citizenship. Therefore, let us remember the start of Ukrainian athletes Ruslan Nakonečny in the Olympic Games as an example of the development of the modern fist in Latvia. On behalf of the Commission, please accept Oleksandr Pinčuk in Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On taking Oleksandra Pinčuks in Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 86, against - 1, refraining from - 1. Decision adopted. We congratulate Oleksandra Pinčuk on his admission to Latvian citizenship and wish you luck! (Applause) The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On withdrawal of the Member of the 12th Saeima of the Republic of Latvia Gunars Kūtra from the office of Secretary of the Saeima”. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U22	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Highly respected members of the Bureau! Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues! The members of the Saeima Bureau are usually elected from among the major political groups represented by the Saeima, including the opposition. This ensures a balance in the work of the Saeima and a level playing field for all parties to which the Latvian people have given their mandate of trust. In 2014, the majority of the Saeima decided who will be the Speaker of the Saeima, who will be its members, who will be the Secretary and a member of the Secretary. The Bureau has five seats. At the beginning of the Saeima there were six political groups, so we respected that at that time the majority of the Saeima elected a representative of the political groups “From the heart to Latvia” and not a representative of the political group of the Latvian Association of Regions. Now, however, the situation has changed. The Latvian Regions Association is one of the largest party associations in terms of number of members (over 800 members) with strong support in the regions. It is the second stronger party represented in municipalities with 233 Members. We have demonstrated ourselves as a constructive political force working under national responsibility. We believe that it is possible to ensure positive change in the country, we are in favour of a fair policy, not trade behind the scenes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lokutov: “On the proposal!” ) We are an association whose number of representatives in the Saeima is growing. Today, 10 Members are active in our team, and this is the tenth part of the Parliament. ( Milestones.) It is therefore obvious that the association claims to be present at the Saeima Bureau. If the Group of the Regions of Latvia fails to obtain representation in the Bureau, the tenth of the representatives of the Latvian Parliament and, consequently, our voters can be considered to be discriminated against and rejected. We believe that a representative of an existing, strong political group should be taken up at the Bureau following the abolition of the Latvian Heart Group. It is not for nothing that the minimum number of Members in the political group has been set, and the ability of Members to cooperate in a united way is one of the indicators that demonstrates the viability and the meaning of the group and also of the party. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Vilius, everything is clear! Let go!” ) It should be recalled that during the existence of the Saeima, it was not possible for members of the Bureau to have a non-member member of the political groups. And that's right, because it's the primary duty of members of the Bureau to take decisions on the Saeima's internal order, to organise the work of the Saeima, to pass on the relevant information to members of their political group. There have been public views showing that Mr Curry is sympathetic to the SASKAN Group, but they already have their own representative, Mr Klementyev. DOES the Bureau want to be represented by two Members already? This is also evidenced by what has just happened - only Mr Kūtra had reservations about the examination of the draft decision on the call for sanctions for those involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case already today. I also have a question for coalition parties - the Union of Greens/Farmers and Unity. Please explain to us and to the public why you support the former Members of the Silver Group and not the representative of the Latvian Association of Regions. The Union of Greens/Farmers has obviously realised that it is the Association of Regions of Latvia that is the biggest competitor of the future, so it is starting to hinder our activities. Or is anyone in Puze insulted that the Association of the Regions of Latvia consistently voted a week ago for the withdrawal of silver from the parliamentary committee of inquiry? Just a week ago, Mr Brigmanis said to the media that at least a large part of the political group would support the election of a representative of the Association of the Regions of Latvia to the Saeima Bureau. ( The box “Lies! ”) ) CONSUMER, will you continue to let open envy and intrigue? The work of the Bureau should not be confused with the National Security Commission... the interests of the groups of Members. We have heard enough speculation in the media about the potential cooperation of Unity with the Association of Latvian Regions even before the next parliamentary elections. Do you really believe that it is possible if you are afraid to support the Latvian Association of Regions on such a technical issue? Dear members of the coalition factions! Come and explain why you do not want to allow the Latvian Association of Regions to work and participate fully in the work of the Saeima! Why do you more support the opinion of the Latvian Association of Regions than the opinion of the Latvian Association of Regions? Members of the coalition factions! Are you really satisfied with the order that the missing votes, for example, for the election of the President, are obviously bought from the SACU Group? Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U23	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U24	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I call for this not to be supported. There is a certain logic: political groups are due... Yes, there is a certain logic, but one-sided if we follow such a principle as the dictatorship of party democracy. It is also logical that the voter has voted in favour of someone. But not just! The voter has also voted in favour of the programme. And then the question is: has Mr Curry resigned from this programme? Perhaps he still, despite the fact that he is no longer a member of the Heart for Latvia, is more warm than the average heart place? It is essentially a question of future policy, because future policy is not party policy. We don't have anything better? Yes, we are in transition, but the question is: how many parties are open to these changes? And it is a question of the strength of the parties: how open they are to cooperation, to democratic cooperation, to independent Members, to public organisations that are not parties. And this is a forward-looking policy. This draft decision or call for this hand... I would say, however, that it is holding on to the old system, an attempt to jump into the old system (which is perhaps a favorable situation in times of distress) and to stand up in it. I'm sorry! Also, the arguments, the personal arguments, against Mr Kūtra, seemed to me to be out of place and not to be correct if we objectively regard the whole system of things. Mr Kūtra, in my view, has always carried out his duties in a fair and objective manner. In any case, I see that he could also be a future politician for Latvia. I am against this draft decision and call on you to be against it as well. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U25	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U26	Mr Latkovsky called for a revolution or more radical change. I want to talk about the specific situation and the specific circumstances. What does the Saeima itself tell the public about what the Saeima Presidium is? Open up, colleagues, the Saeima website! The Bureau. ‘ The Saeima Bureau shall determine the Saeima's internal order and the progress of its work in the Saeima, issue opinions and conduct further referrals in all the cases provided for in the Saeima's Rules of Procedure, draw up the agenda of the Saeima's sittings and decide on missions." Also on heads of departments, organisational functions and so on. Establishment of the Saeima Presidium. The same Saeima tells the public! ‘ The members of the Bureau shall normally be elected from among the major parties represented by the Saeima.’ The biggest! In this case, does the Bureau have such an extraordinary Bureau at the 12th Saeima? The Saeima’s website says that its members are usually elected from the largest... but in this case we know very well - a larger group, after the 12th Saeima elections, was the Association of the Regions of Latvia with eight Members, rather than with seven from the heart of Latvia. It is no longer a matter of proportion, because I am sorry, the "From the heart" group no longer exists for Latvia. There are five seats in the Bureau and only five political groups, which are now actually alive and operate in the Saeima. If so, now - right now - you have the opportunity to correct the historical injustice that emerged after the Saeima elections. Colleagues! A place in the Bureau for the Association of the Regions of Latvia is not a luxury, but an elementary need to be able to participate in the day-to-day work of the Saeima. This is an elementary and timely movement of information and the representation of the political group. Do you really think that the political power that almost 100,000 people had given in the municipal elections half a year ago, and the previous parliamentary elections - 60 thousand, is not entitled to participate in organising the day-to-day work of the Saeima? It is a question of democracy, justice and parliamentary traditions. I think here in the Saeima, there is one authority in which everyone usually listens. Long-term head of the Saeima's Legal Bureau Gunārs Kusiņš. He writes about parliamentary traditions in Latvia: “The third tradition - the composition of the parliamentary collegiate leadership of the Saeima - the Presidium of the Saeima. The tradition that the Presidium of Parliament is a collegial body (not a chairman and several who replace him) has long developed. This tradition requires the Bureau to be composed of representatives of different political groups and thus ensures that opposition parties are represented at the Bureau and can participate in organising the day-to-day work of the Saeima.’ Not a luxury, but an elementary necessity. Colleagues! It has not been possible for the Bureau to be a member of the political groups, since it does not provide representation for anything. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri: “Edvard, there are 13 independent members in the Saeima!” ) This is not even about proportional representation, but about representation in general and timely access to information on the work of the Saeima. Hosam Abu Mary and Unity! I want to appeal. — Dep. H.Abu Meri: “ 13 independent Members! More than LRA!’ ), directly to you, the principles, values and consistency in the application of these principles. Also the story of dual moral and political market and hypocrisy... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Daw, let’s not talk about hypocrisy here!” ) A bright example... And please ensure order!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U27	(The driver of the sitting shall be knocked down with a hammer.) Impressions are allowed, but please also give the opportunity to debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U28	A striking example is the recently used argument that the "From the heart" group no longer exists for Latvia. By this argument, the Unity called for the withdrawal of the Ringolds Balodi from the National Security Commission because the group does not exist. Ingun Silver - from the parliamentary committee of inquiry, because the group does not exist. Gunar, no! Gunar Kūtri - no! Because there is a different agreement here and this principle is not appropriate. Is that not hypocrisy and double morals?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If so, then... Are your morals and principles the same as the Minister for Local Government? He says, with regard to Riga and to Salaspils, that this proportional representation has been violated and people are not guaranteed... Members... But with regard to Saulkrasti, he says that it is perfectly normal if you are in power. I call for prevention of opposition by the Latvian Association of Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U29	Mr Smilten, your debate is over! The debate is over. Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U30	Mr Latkovsky mentioned that Mr Kūtra had fulfilled his duties in good faith. Of course, we do not say the opposite either. We are only stressing once again that the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, as the only group that is currently not represented at the Saeima Bureau, has every right to be represented there. Mr Latkovska called for a major change in politics. I can only agree on my own behalf. Let's go! Then in the next Saeima we also vote for the Speaker of the Saeima and the members of the Speaker of the Saeima freely, openly, without prior discussion! ( Insight: “What’s different?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How has it been so far?” ) Because at the moment, unfortunately... My colleague told me a very good comparison with sport. Comparison of policy and sport. In sport, we do not know the end result, that is, we do not know who will win the fair fight, whereas in politics, at least here, everything has been agreed before. The vote, which will take place immediately, is just such a simple formality. I would like to say once again: I am very sorry that representatives of political groups, representatives of coalition groups... Neither Members nor group leaders have dared to step up here in the troupe, and to answer my questions. At least vote in favour or against, rather than abstain. Don't be cowards!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U31	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U32	Well, if it's already, it's already. Highly honored and respected Association of the Regions of Latvia! I have drawn you to this Saeima (Minimum: “Yes!” ;Applause. (Laughter) , and perhaps I will also drive you out. But now let's think a little bit about why Mr. Neighbours left your group. Remember that when Solvita Aboltiņa was sitting instead of Hosama, the Prime Minister was Laimdota Straujuma... When Laimdota Straujuma lost her premiere position, you and Bondar started trading at the forefront. You started trading for this place. You started trading for this place in Curra: “If you support the candidacy for the Prime Minister, then maybe Dainis Liepiņš could be the Minister for Economics (Dep. J.Viļums: “And you Minister for Culture!” ) because a person who has been removed from the Saeima can still be a minister.’ Let us be honest! Look at Augustus smiles! There's... There you go! When I saw that this division and this trade took place, I realized that I had no way with these people from the Group of the Regions of Latvia, and I left them. Now that I look at this group, I do not understand what it is at all about human formation. They went to you a week ago, Mr Kūtra, and in the ears, they asked if you wanted to join the Association of the Regions of Latvia. It's been a little late. Going, yawning, and wolves to themselves again. I think you're just wearing a sheet of paper like this... There you go, where you got Platoper, there you go! Both look very happy. Then you tried to get Mr. Cura. It didn't work. I believe that now, in the year of pre-election, you do not have the right to be in place of Mr Kūtra. I really do. He doesn't have a group, though. Yeah, he doesn't. But I think he did less harm than any of you did there. That's what I think. And at the end. Dear Members of the Saeima, representatives of the Latvian Association of Regions! I would ask you from your assigned computers that belong to the state (they are the national administrations of some kind of resources, they are not your personal computers!) , you take off its prices with the symbol of the Association of the Regions of Latvia. You don't have the right to put these things down on the people's stuff! This is the case for the group leader, this is the case for Shitz; it is also the case for Vilim. You can't advertise your party here in the Saeima! Then please put it here: Unity, CROSS, ZZS... The KPV's warm is already there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U33	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U34	I wanted to join Mr. Artus. Yes, with the effective humiliation of a journalist, many have achieved their political career here.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U35	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U36	Dear colleagues, Still, I studied at school. I think... Well, let's say, who's a group? The political group - it is a group of Members with some common feature, such as membership of a party. At this point, I would like to point out that the larger group in the Saeima is non-attached Members (Interface: Yes!) ; dep. H.Abu Mary: “Independence!” ), and therefore this large group in the Saeima, which is therefore not part of the political groups, will have its own... still his representative in the Bureau. So please leave him where he is! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U37	The name to Member Edward Smilten, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U38	The classics! Reducto ad absurdum. When there is a question of principles and a particular matter, Mr Līdaka just comes and leads it to absurdity. Mr. Neighbours, for you. There is a saying, "Your words don't come from your heart; in your eyes deceptiveness shines." I didn't hear anything more than insult and bile. An old insult and bile. And the attempt to lead this issue to computer pricing, not to talk about principles, morals and traditions accepted by the Saeima (if they are still important to anyone in the Saeima) is simply absurd. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “ Dude, traditions have to be broken! We have to come new!” ) Therefore, Hosam Abu Meri and August Brigmani, I call on you to press the button, come and argue your group's vote. Because, as I mentioned, Unity used the argument that there are no longer any groups from the heart for Latvia, that there are only five groups in the Saeima to withdraw Ringolds Balodi from the National Security Commission and Mrs Silverba from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. But it stopped here because it's not good. Is that not hypocrisy and double morals? Are those words that Arville Asheraden said a couple of days before Christmas that changes in Unity are irreversible... I want Hosam to come and tell you in which direction they are irreversibly if a Unity represents principles, ideas, values and morality. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri: “We are in favour of democracy!” ) Hos, please press the button, come and justify!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U39	The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U40	I just heard the bile, the insult and some sort of dislike of my previous party. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U41	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member of the 12th Saeima of the Republic of Latvia from the post of Secretary of the Saeima”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, against - 46, abstain - 26. Consequently, no decision has been taken. Consequently, the next item on the agenda - 'elections of a member of the Saeima' - is not on the table. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of the Member Jānis Upenieks from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Member Jānis Upenieks from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Member Jānis Upenieks to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Jānis Upenieks to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Treatment of requests by Members Requests received by Members. On the agenda - Members Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Zenta Tretika, Jānis Adamsonas, Igora Zuveva, Vladimira Nikonova, Borisa Cileviča, Sergeja Potapkina and Andra Morozov's request to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Asheraden, in connection with the Ministry of Economics' "deep audits to be carried out" in relation to the Ministry of Economics' actions with 'OIC permits' and EM' to name the responsible officials who did not exercise adequate control of the start-up of 'OIC stations'. On behalf of the Panel - Member Augusts Brigmanis... I'm sorry, Colleagues! Consequently, on the agenda, a request from Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, in connection with the Ministry of Economic Affairs’ ‘supervised audits’ concerning the Ministry of Economic Affairs’s conduct of ‘OIC permits’ and the EM to designate officials responsible for the avoidance of the ‘OIC stations’ which did not lead to the proper control of the start-up of ‘OIC stations’. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received that request. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons, and the Member Ivars Zarins on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U42	Hello, colleagues! This is another demand. And this series of requests will continue because we are forced to submit them, because the Minister of Economics avoids giving his answers to the questions. Then we have to paraphrase these issues, transform them into requests. Unfortunately, however, too, the Minister for Economics is trying to avoid giving his answers. That is, he says from the beginning that he will give orally, but then he does not come to answer these requests himself, but sends the officials. We therefore have a specific situation where, by nature, the work of the Request Commission is described. Basically, what is said in the Constitution is both bypassing. In particular, the Constitution provides that we are a parliamentary republic, where the leaders of the people have the opportunity to exercise control over the executive. But the executive doesn't even come up, give no answers, but send some officials, leads everything to absurdity. By its actions, it demoralises both the work of the commission and the work of the ministry. The Ministry cannot work normally, because the Minister does not allow - does not allow! - officials normally answer. Because of what was announced... what was said at the meeting of the Request Commission... Most of the Members were already tired of listening to what the officials read from the page. They were offered: “You may, however, submit your answers in writing!” Because they were prepared, they were written. It was pointed out that the Minister had prohibited them from submitting written answers, written replies and written documents to the Saeima. The noise. Depp. V.Spolish's intermediate calls.) It is simply absurd in the republic of parliamentary democracy! What is this request about? When considering yesterday's request, Minister... We discussed how the control process for starting production in these OIC stations is being carried out. Contrary to what the Ministry said, at the meeting of the Committee on Petitions, we found that these controls were not carried out properly. And it is the ministry, which has been covering up everything for years, has created such rules and has then allowed these frauds to take place with OIC schemes. When asked by the Ministry who were then responsible officials, they refused to name them after the audit had been carried out. I got acquainted with these audit materials, with the audit task. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolish's intermediate calls.) This audit in general... This task, which is intended to be carried out by the audit, has nothing to do with what we asked about. More! When we met this audit, we saw that this audit was very strange. This does not correspond at all to what the Minister has made public statements. In particular, it started on August 28, 2012, when the OIC moratorium came in, when it was decided that nothing further would happen that these decisions should not be taken... Then there is the question: what are you going to check, Minister? And so we have prepared this request to the Minister to account for why he has refused to give written answers... and about this audit.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U43	Thank you. Thank you. Motivation time is over. In accordance with the law, we shall forward this request to the Commission. And now on the agenda, the opinion of the Petitions Commission. Member Ivars Zariņa, Jeļena Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimir Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Asheraden, on the replies of the Ministry of Economics to Members' question No 371/J12 and compliance of the Ministry's actions with regulatory requirements and public interests within the framework of the "OIC moratorium" established by the Government. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U44	Good morning, colleagues! Despite the views expressed at previous sittings on the liquidation of the Request Commission during the above-mentioned requests, I can only say one thing: the flow of demand does not decrease. Request (Interfaces) There's a lot. If we are talking about a specific request that has been dealt with by the Request Commission... The minister arrived at the meeting of the commission. Yeah, I did. He replied. There were a number of questions and also opinions, and it is the Commission's decision that there are still many unanswered cases. Consequently, the Commission’s decision was as follows: the request ‘On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to Member’s question No 371/J12 and the compliance of the Ministry’s actions with regulatory requirements and public interest within the framework of the ‘OIC moratorium’ established by the Government’ was rejected by a majority. According to the fifth paragraph of Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission proposes to transform the request into an issue. That is the fate of this particular request. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Then it’s not so bad!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U45	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Interface: “Ivar, you have just been there! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U46	Colleagues! First of all, the context. Why we have so many requests and how this will look in the future. Yes! The flow of demand is and will probably not end in the near future for the reason I explained to you. As the Ministry of Economics avoids providing answers, we have to turn them into requests. Why do you avoid? Let me explain. At the time when this public scandal began, the Minister was asked specific questions to which he could give specific answers, and perhaps it would be over. The Ministry chose a different path. It decided to hide the truth and chose the usual strategy used by officials in this country. Officials are used to being those who determine the order of things in this country, that they direct everything and know it better. They're used to... If a Member who is the President of the people writes his questions to them, he knows that they will learn to answer in such a way that either that Member does not understand anything or simply feels at peace. In this case, the situation turned out to be a little different, because the questioners' competences seem to be more than those of the officials who thought they would try to get lost in some way, by providing false, misleading information or a lot of inaccurate information, thus avoiding the discovery of truth. And since the Ministry of Economics continues to do all of this, it is the whole session of this issue. To understand why the Minister for Economics avoids, does not come, does not give these answers... At the moment, this situation is such that the Ministry of Economics is lying in its lies. Knowing that it would be very difficult for me to fight and prove this truth myself, I simply allowed the Ministry of Economics to prove its wrong position, its lies. And now it's happened. The Minister for Economics and take your lies with you, giving your answers. Now that he is asked specific questions, he has understood, by referring to his own answers, that no longer can give these answers, he cannot submit anything in writing, because everything he will submit in writing will require him to answer. And that's why there's this absurd theater that's happening here. This meeting of the Appeals Commission was very specific. It began as a performance of a humor club, then became an extrasensus show, and in the end it was a drama with the elements of a trillion. I will tell you where this aspect of humor was. The Minister started by pity that he was asked a lot of questions and that he did not know how he would be able to respond to them at the Panel meeting. But no one told him to do so at the meeting of the Commission for a petition. He's the other way around! - the request stated: please provide answers to all the questions in writing. If he had done so, there would be no problem. So from the beginning he causes this problem himself and then acts as a victim. He then referred to issues which were not covered by the request from the Commission. But with these questions he demonstrated a very specific competence. For people who have studied physics at high school, I think it will also provide substance for reflection in order to find out how competent the minister for the economy is. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “It was sarcasm!” ) Because the first thing he tried to demoralise this request-handling process, he said he had asked questions to which... that serious work and analysis is needed to be able to respond immediately. One of these questions, which did not exist in the request, was: “Does laws of physics, thermodynamics exist throughout the territory of Latvia?” The Minister replied: ‘In order to assess this, it requires a certain amount of time to invest’. Well, sorry, that sounds a little funny! Because what was the context for this? In a series of questions, when the minister carefully claimed that these container stations... that there are the conditions of the permit, that is, they work with the intended efficiency, efficiency, then he was asked whether he could refer to technologies, cogeneration technologies that can work with the same efficiency - for 10 kilowatts - as for permits calculated for megawatts. Because there's just physics, thermodynamic laws don't work. And when the minister said he could, he was asked if he was even in the course of things about how physics, thermodynamic laws work. Second point: The Minister regretted that in this context he was asked to answer the question about the efficiency of technology in that case... He regretted that he was asked to evaluate various technologies installed in cogeneration stations. And his answer was, “It’s quite a lot.” That's all the Minister knows about cogeneration technologies right now! Sorry, then I have a question: on what basis have you given its permissions and you are sure that these installed stations actually work and work according to the rules, with the necessary efficiency, with the corresponding resources and so on? It is natural that some Members are not aware of the request at all, but have called for its immediate rejection. Even more! They replied that replies had already been received. Although the minister had said that he would not answer. Some Members were already in the course of things like these answers and that these responses are appropriate. What is the nature of this request? The request is essentially one specific phase of the operation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, i.e. the second half of 2011 and 2012, when it was supposedly said to the public that the government had announced a moratorium on the OIC due to the fact that it had understood how serious the economic threat would be if the Ministry of Economic Affairs continued to issue these permits. However, despite the fact that this moratorium was allegedly adopted, as the Ministry of Economics says, at the same time the Ministry of Economics was intensively continuing to issue permits during this period, until August 28, 2012, amendments to Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 221 were adopted, which prohibited the issue of permits also under these regulations. More than 400 permits were issued. More than 400 permissions! Imagine - this is almost half of the permits that have been issued! At the time when the public was told that there was a moratorium! The Ministry of Economics was asked to explain this course of action, to which the Minister replied that the Ministry was a heroic fight in order to avoid anything like that. It turns out that it has been the opposite of the government, it has been the Ministry of Agriculture, it has been VARAM and it has, after all, been a government that, contrary to the efforts of the Ministry of Economics, has not allowed these amendments to be adopted. So it turns out that there is once again a blame for Unity, because who was then the head of government at that time? I think one of these ministers' statements in Brussels should now protect his ears, because it turns out that he is guilty of this OIC area, which has continued. The Ministry of Economics was also unable to name the specific things it has done in order to really combat it. The Ministry of Economy was asked to provide its explanations and its assessment of the situation. Why was the Minister for Economics asked for this? The Minister for Economic Affairs was not required to assess the activities of the ministers; he was required to assess how he, as Minister for Economic Affairs, should have acted in this situation. And why is that required? Here is one interesting nuance... ( The ring of noise.) Can I have a hammer? ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) One very interesting nuance appears here. During this moratorium... If you remember, there have been missing documents about which the Ministry of Economics has said that there has not been any result of the verification of the service. However, when we get closer to the records of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we see that there has been an audit during this period, and this audit has acknowledged that the Ministry of Economics' activities, actions and decisions have not nevertheless been in line with the requirements of the laws and regulations, and the Ministry of Economics has violated a number of requirements that the Ministry of Economics should have complied with. The Minister for Economics, on the other hand, believes that he should not be interested in this period and that everything is fine. He is not able to answer anything and is appalled that he is asking something like that at all and as if he is hindering him from working, although in fact it is a very important thing that the Minister for Economics should be clear about. The Minister for Economic Affairs, as we know, has announced publicly that an audit has now been announced. Another audit. If the previous audit, which assessed all this and gave a negative report on the activities of the Ministry of Economics, cost about 5000 lats, then the new audit to be carried out is already costing EUR 75 000 in the purchase of the Ministry of Economics. The question is: what exactly does the Ministry of Economics want to assess again, and why does it want to bid almost ten times more, in order to get some assessment of its actions again? If the previous assessment was negative, then perhaps the objective that the Ministry of Economics now wants to achieve is to get a positive assessment, of course generously paying taxpayers' money for it. Perhaps there is also a basis here for any political, let us not say, corruption, let us say, hidden settlement, because you see what happens. Along with this request... When considering these requests, discussing both missing documents and the action of the Ministry of Economic Affairs during this moratorium, the Minister of Economics Asheraden suddenly comes to his decision that it should be for the Unity, party “Motion About!” and the regions of Latvia... “Latvia’s Development” somehow unite... that he will work to unite. And if we look at these like missing documents, we see that it's coming out... The Minister of Unity now claims that the documents on the verification of service proposed by the Pavilut regarding the actions of the Secretary of State of the time, Puce, have disappeared. We see the following political OIC triunity: there are three parties involved in this field, and there are the main leaders of the current parties, namely Asheraden, Head of Unity, “Motions for!” Head of Pavļuts, who was the Minister for Economics at that time and who carried out an inspection of this service, whose results have disappeared, and then Secretary of State Pūce, who is now the main person of “Latvia for Development”. As I said, such an interesting OIC triunity is emerging; it is possible that Mr Asheraden will really succeed in bringing these three forces together very successfully. Because if these documents have not actually disappeared, it is a very powerful tool to really find a platform for three political parties. Therefore, I believe it would be very important, however, for the Minister to introduce clarity rather than to speak, to avoid coming here to give answers and to send officials who are not aware of what they are representing and whether it is really the Minister's opinion. More! If officials are only allowed to speak, but some written documents are banned by the Minister, then it is obvious that all these requests are justified. And I'll tell you why there's reason. As I have already mentioned to you, this, to say the parliamentary investigation, which takes place in a more constructive form than it would have been if it were a parliamentary committee of inquiry, is coming to an end - to its successful conclusion, to be recognised - and the last steps remain. And these last steps are due to the fact that these requests, each of them, are on a specific aspect of the OIC's apoetry. They are now closing... And if the Minister for Economics responds to these questions, in principle he himself will have written all that is necessary to be able to say that this investigation file is closed. So it's desperate - it's just desperate! - avoidance of providing the Saeima with these requested answers, this information. ( Interface: “Window, come on! ”) ) However, we trust that we still live in a parliamentary democracy and that the principles laid down in the Constitution will have to be respected. I think it would be in all our interests, however, that this should be done constructively, not by spending a huge amount of energy, which is now to be spent by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and which will have to be spent by the Members of the Committee on Petitions, so that in such a non-constructive process, as is currently the case, it is still going on and that it is still politically covered. We hope that this country has a future, that in this country the words “the rule of law”, “democracy”, “account before the people” will not be just empty words, but that they will be filled with actions. And those responsible for this area will at least be prepared to give true answers. And the amount of responsibility from it, I hope they will fall. Otherwise, I think this investigation will simply go further - from this room to other appropriate premises, to other appropriate bodies, which will then decide everything further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U47	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission? So it's not. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Jeļena Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimira Nikonova and Jānis Adamson's request to the Minister of Economy Arvilas Asheraden on the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question No. 371/J12 and compliance of the Ministry's actions with regulatory requirements and public interests within the framework of the "OIK moratorium" established by the Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 41, for - 10. The request is therefore rejected. And given that the Requesting Commission has proposed to turn this request into a question and the questioners have agreed to it - does one of the applicants have objections to the transformation of the request into a question? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zariņš!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U48	There is, I would say, an amusing situation because, in principle, this request was made because the same questions had already been drafted as questions and the Minister of Economics avoided replying to them. And now the Request Commission decided to turn them back to the questions! We don't mind. We are very interested in what the Minister for Economics will do further with all this. Which one...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U49	So the question was: does one of the applicants object to the transformation of this request into a question? There is no objection. The question is therefore referred to Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, for a reply. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft law “Amendments to the law “On State Secret”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U50	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! So we have a draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Secret”, third reading. As you know, specific amendments have been made following the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which in turn was adopted following the constitutional complaint of Raimonds Lazdiņš, a member of the Security Service of Riga Airport. Between the second and third readings, as has already been said after the first reading, the draft law has been supplemented by regulation covering not only natural persons but also legal persons. In particular, it is a failure to issue an industrial safety certificate and a possible challenge to it. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U52	The proposal is a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U54	3. - also a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U56	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U58	Follow the 5th next. - The Saeima's proposal by Mr. Valda Nanozol. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U59	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U60	Hello, brothers and sisters! I call for support for the amendments to the law so that we are not like the members of the Supreme Council under the control of the KGB of the LSSR, but are the real leaders of the Latvian people, who can defend the interests of both Latvia and its citizens. We're good owners in our land! Together we arrange a country that the people have entrusted to us! Breaking disputes, intrigues, misunderstandings, insults! We are united with Latvia's future goal! Let us not allow ourselves to be divided and ruled over us! In my speech about theft of the state, I expressed the opinion that the renewed network of agents of the KGB has contributed to both Awakening events and accession to the European Union and NATO. But it should also be noted that this renewed network of KGB agents covers theft of the state. That is why there is such resistance to opening cheque bags. And that's why efforts to stop theft of the state have been crowned with--chuck! My opinion is that our security services cover this renewed network of KGB agents that manipulate public opinion, media, officials and politicians. Latvians who were inexperienced in security matters created the security structure of Soviet Russia. Why can't we create a reliable security structure for the Latvian state without the participation of the KGB and others? The country must put its security structures in order. Only in this way will we put an end to the grey mass, the power of the gray forces. They steal our country, manipulate politicians, officials and the media. These grey forces defend not the interests of Latvia, but the goals set by Russia or America. In order to sort out the country, the highest power of Latvia must be the leaders of the people. It is unacceptable that the interests of the people are determined by the tortured security services of the KGB's heritage and the CIA's control, from which they really cannot understand to whom they are loyal - Russia, America or another country. According to Andris Pauls-Pāvuls, an activist of Awakening time, the order in which permission is given to the state's secret is chaotic. He writes that Igor Pimenov, a former member of the KGB body ‘Sputnik’, has an admission to national secrecy. I am told that Mr Pimenova, among us here, is not the only one with the permission of national secrecy. Sorry, you feel that if you are loyal to a former KGB, it ensures tolerance to the state's mystery. And this applies to both officials and companies. An interesting one is also Andra Paula-Pāvul's statement about another representative - a foreign Latvian Gunāra Meierovica. And this makes the people think of an unknown agreement between the CIA and the KGB. The proposed amendments to the law clearly indicate that the highest power in Latvia must be the fronts of the people and they must control security services, not vice versa. While the leaders of the Latvian people will not control security services, they will control us and manipulate us, as was done with the members of the Supreme Council of the LSSR. Member Ivars Zarins last meeting told anecdotes about Member Antons. Remember, Ivar? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “No, I don’t remember! Can't You Recall?" ) I call for support for the amendments to the law so that we are not like the members of the Supreme Council under the control of the KGB of the LSSR, but are the real leaders of the Latvian people, who can defend the interests of both Latvia and its citizens. We prove that the highest power in Latvia is us, not security services! We're good owners in our land! We believe we succeed!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U61	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U62	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, We return to this saga for a tolerance system as such. In principle, we need to talk about the capacity of the services and opportunities in our country. What, then, is the system in our country? The constitution clearly defines that we are a parliamentary state, a parliamentary democracy. And how are our special services controlled? Its system is very simple: parliamentary scrutiny - the National Security Commission, where “high” meets (foot!) Class 1 professionals who have no reason to believe in the specificity of the services and their performance. Go on. National Security Council. It's like competent people. But despite the fact that I have put forward many proposals for the National Security Council to have something to say... Because no decision can be formally taken by the National Security Council, and therefore also decisions concerning the services, because the decisions of the National Security Council are of a recommended nature. After all, where are we coming from? That specs write to themselves tasks, control themselves and, in practice, account for themselves. We do not have this control system. Let's see now! It is the services, representatives of the services, which determine who is allowed to control them. And here, too, we come to absurd things. At the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, when discussing the relevant amendments to the law, I also asked the Chairman of the regional court a number of questions. First question... And, my fellow Members, I ask you to think: how does it come that the Saeima appoints judges for life, but only certain representatives of the services decide whether the judge in question can carry out his duties in full? Although it is not excluded that the judge concerned may at any time also judge those who have granted those tolerances. The next one is absurd. We seem to amend the law “On State Secret” in order to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but in essence, colleagues, nothing changes. It remains practically the same as it has been so far. At present, the Prosecutor General can neither give nor remove any tolerance. He may only revoke the decision to withdraw or surrender the allowance and forward it to the Court for review. To whom is he sending this decision? Those who have already made the decision. We are delighted to amend the law “On State Secrets” accordingly. Accordingly, the decision of the regional court of Riga, which concerns the regional court, is also due to the fact that in principle nothing changes. The court will also be able to revoke the decision on the basis of some formal or informal features. Likely, a person is denied access to a state secret if he is suspected of drinking alcohol. Man wins, the truth proves that he doesn't even know what alcohol is. Nothing hinders the institution in question when a person has won this court as the next one to use gambling addiction. And that can be pointless. I will touch a little on the next question. Last, second reading, I supported my proposal that the time at which a decision to grant or refuse to grant an authorisation should be taken should be three months. Now we want to extend it for another three months. Colleagues, we have an example when the chair of the parliamentary committee of inquiry could not work to its full extent because up to now (already half a year has passed!) the tolerance is not granted. Now, we are changing the system, however, and we are indeed, as Mr Kalnciema said, responsible to our citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U63	Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U64	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Aldis Adamovičs, Gaidis Berzins, Lolita Čigāne, Raivis Dzintars, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Jānis Kžads... yes, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Roman Mežeckis, Roman Miloslavskis, Roman Mandiņš, Vitaly Orlovs... Yes, Edward Smilten and Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U65	Thank you. Interruption until 12 noon. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U66	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Secret”, third reading. We are following the debate on 5. - the proposal put forward by Member Valda Kalnozol. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U67	Honourable Members of the Saeima! We have already rejected the almost identical proposal made by Mr Nanozol at second reading. To be honest, I do not understand why this proposal appears in the table at all, given that once it has already been rejected. I also call for this proposal to be rejected this time. And I think Mr Kalnozol could also vote against his proposal because he referred to a very good argument about Pimenov. In your version, it will happen that such activists as Pimenov and other activists who praised the Soviet Union and were active employees at the time will automatically be able to get a tolerance in a much faster procedure, because it is likely that it will not be possible to carry out the test as you have excavated it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U68	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U69	I am rapporteur on this, but I would like to add two things from my point of view: a certain déj? vu continuing what Mr Dombrava has just said and on the shortcomings of the bill. Mr Dombrava, he will not withdraw his proposal! He already put forward that proposal specifically so that he could then make Facebook beautiful to show that he has... that he is a strong man and is in a good party, and that he has a vision. It has been deliberately done; we all understand it. But if we talk about the drawbacks... Last time it was already pointed out... The draft law is really the same, almost the same, there may be a change of words... I really want to say: ‘Sovereign, how do you not lose the ability to make poor-quality proposals in a single release?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “Last time it was indicated that the item “ LR” is not applicable. We do not use “LL” as old as it belongs to bad style – it is also indicated to students. Well, I understand that it has not been heard, but in the previous sitting I also said that it is wrong to write in draft laws such abbreviations. In essence, I already understand what this is about. But it's different. And that is why I will really note that there is a great lack that the draft laws tabled by Members do not have an annotation, because then one could understand their deep idea. They could develop more by writing, and then understand their own mistakes and perhaps not even draft laws, or correct errors in the draft law. What's going on here? That's how it works. Well, I will not start again because I think everyone has already had the opportunity to read this proposal. This is about access to state secrets. Consequently, persons with relevant official duties need such a tolerance. Here it is written: “... in accordance with Article 18 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia, after the solemn pledge to pass on the state secrets, access is granted to the Speakers of the Saeima, Prime Minister and Ministers of the Republic of Latvia who have gained the confidence of the Saeima. The examination of a person shall be carried out before the commencement of the employment (service) relationship.’ Well, if it is meant here that Members, before they meet together in Saeima, must obtain the Constitutional Protection Bureau... No, the Security Police permit, I think it's stupid, it's unrealistic... Just an unfulfilled task! If you start checking all those Members, how long will it take? And if you're talking about candidates, it's never gonna stop at all. That's not how we're going to get to a new Saeima! But what is happening here? There is no comma here; there is one issue: “... after the solemn pledge has been made... to the Speakers of the Saeima, the Prime Minister and the Ministers who have gained the confidence of the Saeima.” Having regard to Articles 2, 3 of the Saeima's Rules of Procedure, the Saeima shall, in fact, confirm itself in office. It happens that after making a solemn promise, we... So we need to gain our own trust, as it is - we confirm our mandates. At what point will our loyalty and compliance, let us say, with the high demands of the country's secrecy be verified? Well, it's a nightmare, Lord, it's really a nightmare! And I don't understand why we have to talk about it again. Because I'm with my eyes closed... Even without listening to Adamson, I know what he will say about this matter. He's already... Well, there's part of the truth in what he says. But you can't devalue such a serious law, let's say, every time you talk about the same thing! For me, is there really no need to change the roll of order of the Saeima so that we do not talk about the same again when we change one word? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U70	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U71	Ringold Balodi, feel the owner in your land! Feel it! Feel it, yeah! And feel like you're the one who will determine how we're going to develop here! Feel it! And Mr. Dombrava! In connection with Mr. Pimenova, I wanted to point out that there is already some nightmare... There's a total nightmare that's happening there with those country secrets! My proposal is: then let's sort it out! We are a sovereign power, and the people have entrusted us with the rule of the state so that we can sort it out, not allow any mythology that we cannot understand to happen. You're saying it's... You don't understand yourself, do you? And about these points, about these shortcomings, where “LL” and so on... Well, Mr. Ringold Baloža, you're... I'm an engineer builder. You're a lawyer, you've learned a long and dictate and you've been leaning on it. So open your mouth on the commission! Give me your suggestions, and everything will be fine. And everything will be beautiful! But the very essence is, I think, understandable to everyone. Now we're not afraid! Now, we're not apathetic! We are the highest power in this earth! Now we're not having any KGB shacks! Now feel it once! Well, there's no mechanism that pushes the buttons! We depend on the power of the people, not on the special services... Mr. Ringold Baloža! So feel (intersense.) Like the master!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U72	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, what else is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U73	Yes! On behalf of the Commission, however, I would ask my fellow Members to separate themselves from the proximity of the elections that comes with ions to all of us (interim: 'It is impossible!' ) and try to avoid provocations. We try, however, to see this serious law next!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U74	For the Commission, please... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Please, on behalf of the Commission, about what has been discussed in the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U75	It's on behalf of the Commission! I am supported by Ainars Latkovskis. It's on behalf of the Commission!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U76	Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U77	That's... Next we have... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “James!” ) That's right!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U78	The Commission's view is not to support this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 45, for - 6. The proposal is not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Nanozol, what do you not vote for yourself?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U79	Thank you, colleagues, for the victory and triumph of common sense in this vote. The next item is the 6th proposal. From the same Mr, and not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U80	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U81	Mr. Baloža! I know you're more worried than me if? But I also have concerns about my political career. That's why you're sitting there in hope... There is no hope! What do I mean? You have read for this time that the SAB's refusal to Mr Tutina has been lifted by the Prosecutor-General. You understand what I'm talking about. I may not have been very precise, but the SAB has refused Mr Tutina, and the Prosecutor General has returned the matter and asked for consideration. And why is my proposal? For the SAB to write clearly and lightly why this tolerance is refused. So that it is not as in Mr Tutin's case that it can't really be explained. We don't think Mr. Tutin likes us, and we don't let him in. There are concrete proposals here, Mr Baloža. Read these concrete proposals so that there is no situation where our Members are being dragged in a row. You didn't like your nose, you didn't! Oh, let's do it!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U82	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U83	Neither commissions nor in my own name will I express anything. I will be stoicious in the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U84	The Commission's view is not to support the proposal. That is obviously what the rapporteur has to say. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 50, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U85	The next one, too, is the proposal by Valdis Kalnozols. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U86	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U87	And here, Mr. Dombrava, look in. Here is the mechanism. If one of our Members is seen, so to speak, as a potential enemy for the country, there is a mechanism here that is not in some cellars of the security service... that you don't know why give some former KGB staff permissions... But here we decide, rather than former KGB staff, who will be allowed and who will not. It's a very simple thing to understand that means... You know, not a former KGB official will decide on you, Mr Dombrava, whether you are credible or not, but we will decide here.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U88	I closed the debate. For the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U89	Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U90	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 54, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U91	The next one is 9. - Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U92	Proposal No 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U93	Oh, I'm so sorry. Yeah, really. Proposal No 8 is a proposal from the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns. Partly supported, included in the next proposal - Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U94	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U95	9. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U97	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U98	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U99	11. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Please support me. We supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U101	12. - The Saeima's proposal by Mr. Valda Nanozol. No support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U102	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U103	Mr. Dombrava! This is also a proposal that gives clarity. There are less important, more important and very important documents in the country if? At present, it is practically the work of many Members in the Saeima that has been paralyzed by some documents, on which someone has been allowed to write that they are secret. But if you look at this, you're laughing about this, so to speak, the definition that this document is secret. Members of the Saeima may not perform their duties. There's a classification here. If the SAB director believes that there may be someone, such as Nagornosol, who cannot be allowed to watch super-secret documents... There is this procedure, as it is. Okay, Nanozol is not given the so-called super-secret documents, but he can normally perform his work as the leader of the people. This is self-evident. I hope that everyone understands the substance of such a proposal and that the legal manifestations of my engineer's builder are understandable to many. Maybe the lawyers don't... I admit that lawyers may not understand them.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U104	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U105	No, no. Please don't support me, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U106	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 51, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U107	The next item is the 13th proposal. It is also a proposal by Walda Nanozol, and it is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U108	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U109	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U111	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U113	16. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U115	The 17th proposal is also a proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, but the commission has not received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U116	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U117	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U119	19. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Partly supported because it is included in the next proposal - 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U120	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U121	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U123	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U125	22. - The motion of the Saeima Member Jur Vectrian. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U126	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U127	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Saeima's proposal by Mr. Valda Nanozol. This has not been supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U128	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U129	This correction is because our dear lawyers do not know why they have a proper brother for this bill. Because a person who is refused admission to the country's secret in June can only get back after five years... A person who is refused in July may already bring these questions before the court and bring them before the court. In my opinion, it is unfair if lawyers believe that such a wording is correct and a few dates can be decided for years when you can challenge this SAB decision. I do not agree with this. I understand that lawyers have another belief that lawyers live in their world and I live in their world of engineer builder.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U130	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U131	Yeah. Lawyers and builders in this world... The family lives in one room and tries to resolve these things in essence. Colleagues, I would ask you not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U132	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - not, against - 73, abstain - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U133	24. and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U135	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U137	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U138	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U139	27. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported and included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U140	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U141	Next and 28th. - The motion by the Saeima Member Jurs Vectirāns, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U142	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U143	29. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported and included in the above-mentioned proposal 33.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U144	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U145	30. - also supported and included in the above-mentioned proposal 33.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U147	Proposal No 31. The same thing. Supported and included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U148	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U149	32. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is partly supported and also included in the proposal 33, which is next.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U150	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U151	33. There is a proposal from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U153	That's it! ( Independence: “34! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U154	Proposal No 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U155	Oh, 34? I got it? Yeah, I'm sorry! 34. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, who has also received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U157	Please support the whole draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U158	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Secret”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 1, for - 21. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U159	Dear colleagues, Two proposals have been examined by the Commission for the third reading of the draft law. 1. the Commission's proposal is in charge and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U161	2. The committee responsible shall also be responsible for the proposal. It is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U163	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. I call on Members to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U164	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U166	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and to review draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U167	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Law on Public Procurement. In total, eight proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Mr Eglita, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U169	2 is National Associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group of the “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” which, unfortunately, did not receive support from the Commission and which provides that “a tenderer who is a company tax-free or low-taxed in a country or territories shall also be excluded from participation in the procurement”.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U170	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U171	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear and honourable Members, In a context of globalisation, the fact that the government's ability to collect taxes will be reduced as businesses become global and companies increasingly skilled in planning taxes, or in trying to optimise income, expenditure. As a result of globalisation and the development of information technology, setting up offshore companies is very simple: you don't have to go anywhere - research or ask consultants right here in Riga, whose country has the most appropriate jurisdiction for investment, asset protection or international trade, and do so! The company in any jurisdiction of the world will be in your pocket! The creation of such companies is not illegal in itself, but the objective with which these companies are established is important. Countries around the world, including Latvia, lose a substantial share of tax revenues every year because finance and capital flows to so-called offshores or low-tax or tax-free companies, as they are legally defined in Latvian laws and regulations. This explains the fight against offshores by certain international organisations, provided that they are used only for the sake of more favourable tax rules. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has developed and implemented the BEPS, which is the reduction of taxable income and the transfer of profits, where one of the main objectives is the application of income tax in the country where the economic activity is actually carried out, generates added value and in fact generates income for tax purposes. On 5 December 2017, a black list of 17 non-EU countries and dependent territories was adopted and published in the European Union, which it recognises as tax havens offering unfair tax treatment. And the Member States are entitled to introduce additional measures to protect the tax base, in addition to the countermeasures already established at European Union level. I would remind you that tax revenue in Latvia accounts for about three quarters of total budget revenue. It would therefore be extremely important to protect our tax base if persons from low taxes or duty-free countries and territories were to carry out economic activities through a permanent representation in Latvia. There are difficulties in collecting taxes on Latvian income, as there is often no information exchange and administrative cooperation mechanisms with low-tax or tax-free countries and territories, but the real owners, legal representatives or real beneficiaries are often not known. In such cases, there is a possibility to avoid paying taxes, and these companies are in a more favourable position compared to Latvian and non-Latvian companies (including those Member States that are members of the World Trade Organisation Agreement on Public Procurement with which Latvia has concluded tax conventions and mutual administrative assistance for residents). The most important question to ask yourself, colleagues, is: will we continue to allow companies that do not want to participate in the construction of our country to fish from our common taxpayers' pot? The term "office" is mainly used in the context of tax evasion, tax avoidance or facilitating the application of the tax regime to income generated. This type of amendment, by imposing stricter requirements on public and municipal procurement and limiting the possibility to participate in such procurement for legal entities established in offshore areas, will help to avoid tax evasion and ensure equal treatment of competing companies in public procurement. This specific proposal also relates to further proposals submitted by the National Alliance. And in this specific proposal, proposal 2, these restrictions on offshore procurement apply to public procurement, up to a maximum amount of EUR 170 000. I call for this proposal to be supported. I will also extend myself to the forthcoming proposals of the National Alliance on the limitation of offshores. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U172	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U173	Dear President, Honourable Members! This is now the right law that shows how we can fight oligarchs rather than the pseudocene that we often like to show, say, to withdraw a woman from the commission, to give someone a foot... This law is very important. Why? First. Why do we need to know the real beneficiaries? Because we often see the sponsors of the parties, but we do not know what companies they own, and we do not know why some are so generous and cost tens of thousands from year to year. Secondly, we see a very large number of municipal companies... Or roads are asphalted in municipalities, the same builders win competitions all the time, whose firms are registered in mystical offices or are offshore firms. And it would be extremely important at a time when, as a priority, we have declared the fight against corruption and the fight against oligarchs, to see who then owns the company that, for example, paves the streets in the city. Well, who owns that factory if it's registered on the off-season? I am very surprised that the commission has not supported such a simple solution. We already do not prevent these companies from operating. We just want to know about those who win government and local government orders - who are the real beneficiaries. Why should they hide? Dear colleagues, I looked... Very interesting! Every year Dienas Bizness publishes the most expensive cars purchased by 25 entrepreneurs. You understand, however, that an entrepreneur who is concerned about the development of his company does not travel demonstrationally to Riga by car, which costs between 300 and 500 thousand. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What is it about a car?” ; dep. A. Leijs: “Bentley!” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “ 230!” ) For example, Jip Vintage costs over 300 thousand. I can count. McLaren - between 200 and 300 thousand. AMG GLE 635 and so on - over 200 thousand. But... What is interesting? The owners of these companies often own only one car, not their name, but the name of the office. And the title contains either the word ‘rent’ or the word ‘rent’... SIA Rent and the next foreign word. It is therefore a means of work, as you understand. There is a completely different tax system. It's not a private car, McLaren. This is the only car owned, let us say, by the rental company from which the Latvian worker rents McLaren or Vintage on Sundays or something like that. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Rejoice!” ) I am also happy... Something about it... That's great! And one more thing. I hope that Mr. Smilten, who is our biggest fighter with oligarchs in the Saeima... I remember that during the hearing of the report he climbed up here some four times and said that he had not slept at night because he had counted how everyone had voted for the withdrawal of Member Silver. It's so basic, but it's a fight with oligarchs! You know, to withdraw a person from a commission that doesn't exist anymore. I think Mr Smilten will not rise tonight, publish, go to TV 24 and tell you who are then voting against this bill, which really shows a real fight against the oligarchs. So that I call for the support of honourable colleagues! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U174	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U175	Hello, colleagues! This issue is, of course, topical, but we also have to follow the European Union's legislation. European Union legislation makes clear and clear what exclusion rules in procurement are. Such exclusion clause is contrary to this Directive on procurement. In the case of Latvia, for example, last year, no matter how gloomy the pictures and any losses to the budget were drawn... if we are talking about procurement, there has been only one case where a company that corresponds to the characteristics of the proposal submitted by the National Alliance has won the procurement. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “We’re trying to fight the offshores!” ) I therefore call for no support because the road to infringement proceedings is actually paved.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U176	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U177	I fully agree with what Mr Kirstein said. This offshore issue is an eternal issue for us and indeed its roots for our so-called oligarchs. Of course, the disaster is always that there is something against it. It is also this time, of course, that it is for the third reading. And I was on that commission... And in response to Mr. Kirstein, I say there's nothing to wonder! I voted in favour, supported, but I understood very well those who voted against because it was submitted to the third reading and had not come to explain it. And in that sense, as in other matters, I call for us not to stand up permanently with these pages, who have voted, on social networks or elsewhere. But I am calling for this proposal to be supported in this case. Perhaps European legislation will also have to be clarified once. And how long can we delay? And it is clear that Europe is also often simply lobbying those whom we call oligarchs or taxpayers. So I'm calling for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U178	The name to Member Richard Cole, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U179	Thank you to the Parliamentary Secretary for referring to the directives. But there are a number of things that need to be taken into account. These infringement procedures - as we know - this is a time-consuming process while we evaluate everything. This is not the case that we are approving today, and tomorrow there is an infringement procedure, and Latvia is being punished. A simple rhetorical question: is the European Commission a political institution? None. On the contrary, the Council of Europe? And that's it. Hardly. And on 5 December last year, the Council of Europe, with a unanimous vote by ministers, adopted a black list of 17 countries. A simple rhetorical question: for what we imitate something - we accept such a black list... cleanly declaratory? I think that, in this case, we do not really address those countries that are, let us accept, the Member States of the World Trade Organisation Agreement on Public Procurement or the OECD BEPS signatories. We cannot impose sanctions on them. Nor can we restrict the European Union's Member States, where there are also low-tax or non-tax territories. But there's a clear signal here... And, as I understand it, the Procurement Monitoring Office... They said that there were few such cases. Something alone... Once at some point the offshores... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “Six years!” ) Yes, six years once... that is, the direct offshore company has applied for... But when you look at the next proposals that the National Association has put forward, you will see that there are also subcontractors, companies that are registered in Latvia, but whose shares belong to offshore companies. I doubt whether such statistics have been compiled by the Procurement Monitoring Office. So that I call for this support. And, of course, I will also set out the reasoning on the next proposals, and I will also talk about the activities or omissions of the Ministry of Finance over the last 10 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U180	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U181	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Indeed, there was a great deal of discussion in the Commission on this proposal, and I am very much able to join Mr Kirštein in that we have to do everything to ensure that our purchases are transparent, that our taxes are paid in full in our country, and so on. This proposal also excludes a low-tax or duty-free tenderer established in a country or territories from participation in a procurement. This proposal does not concern the disclosure of genuine beneficiaries; it excludes undertakings established on an offshore basis from their participation in procurement. It is not just what Mr Putra said here that there is an infringement procedure that can be lengthy and that can end in various ways. But there are very many cases where this law applies also when procurement is provided with European Union funds. This means that if someone in the European Union Foundation's procurement is excluded and sued, then, as we know very well, these expenditures will be ineligible expenditure and this funding will have to be paid from the Latvian state budget. Europe will not repay us if we have not followed the procurement procedure. And these expenses will not be at some point and anything if we, let us say, discover and we prove, correct and do, but these expenses will simply not be allocated, and this will be an additional burden for Latvia's public budget - to pay for these cases. Regardless of how we fight, we cannot support such discriminatory conditions that are not contained in the relevant European regulations. We can think about something else... I agree that it may be necessary to work on this issue, to open up the law once again and to think about how to really disclose all these things and ensure the payment of taxes. But, unfortunately, it was not possible to support it in the way it was offered. The Commission had a detailed discussion on this, as well as an explanation by the Procurement Monitoring Office and the Ministry of Finance. So, colleagues, I am calling for really not to support this time. But I have to think about it, I agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U182	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U183	Edgar! When we passed amendments in the Saeima relating to the restriction of the marketing of agricultural land, we were all very aware that these amendments could lead to an infringement procedure. There's nothing! This bill was subsequently clarified, amended, and this infringement procedure did not have a direct impact on our economy. We know that this is a multi-year process. In this case, there is no clear indication that one hundred per cent infringement proceedings will be opened. The other thing. In my opinion, this is a very, very dangerous signal from the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Mr Matīss can speak, another Member can defend these offshore companies that they should not be excluded from procurement, but if an official of the Ministry of Finance tells us that we should not close companies from low-tax countries out of procurement, this in essence motivates other Latvian entrepreneurs to register their companies at the office and to apply for procurement in the territory of the Republic of Latvia. This is a very, very dangerous signal that you send. This proposal would really solve the problems, and I call for support to be given to both these proposals and to future proposals presented by the National Alliance.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U184	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U185	Dear President, Honourable Members! Only a few additions. I didn't say it last time. We're not just talking about procurement, and there's two things together. We all know the situation with the components of compulsory procurement, let us say, for different bioenergy companies. But there is another problem. There is no obligation to have an order. I'll tell you how I see it. We have a variety of financial institutions, such as fast credit firms, which are registered in different offshores, and we do not know the true beneficiary. At the same time, there is information that a person who has lent money to this fast credit firm has, let's say, a municipal member who, in turn, owns some other company participating in the procurement. For the banks. We can see, even though... While we imitated here the fight against oligarchs, the banks have washed up hundreds of millions. We know about the situation in Moldova; we know about the situation in Ukraine; huge sums of money have flowed through Latvia through the country. As if there's no public procurement, they don't need public procurement, right? And we don't know who the owners are. We also see someone like a fast credit firm... behind it we see some offshore company, then we look in the chain, and again there are some... We have, let's say, a suspicion that there might be one politician or another... We see a donation from a political party and, as a result, we see that the law relating to quick credit for businesses is, in fact, nowhere useful if we say so honestly. With all that we've reduced this... That is, this machine, which lives on the poor, works in full. Some of these people are visible, some invisible, and all this is intertwined in some kind of eight, and we continue... And this is already about hundreds of millions and billions. Look at what's there in the banks. As you can say, honourable colleagues...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U186	Mr. Kirstein! Your debate is over! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Berzins: “All! Let's vote!' ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U187	Yeah. Only 11 percent of residents are bank owners in Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U188	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U189	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say what Mr Matīss said: that the debate was very broad, but ultimately, having listened to the arguments and reservations of the Ministry of Finance and to the rational explanation of this problem, it was decided that the Commission unfortunately did not support these proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U190	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 46, against - 6, refrain - 29. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U191	3. Colleagues, there is a proposal from the committee responsible, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U193	4. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group of the Group of the “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK”, which has not been supported and which provides that a candidate or tenderer who is a company established in a country or territories with a low tax or tax-free status... So it was added to the criteria, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U194	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U195	Colleagues! When we looked at the first proposal from the National Alliance, I drew your attention to the fact that all the next proposals are related to it. And so I call for support. But I also draw attention to the fact that, despite this Council of Europe's black list, Latvia has the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No.655 – “Regulations on Low Tax or Tax Free Countries and Territories”, which in total are listed 25. Again a rhetorical question: why is there a list if we don't? So I'm calling for this... these proposals are also 4. ... No, 5 and 6, which will be next, and yet to the issue that has been resolved since 2008, put an end to it and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U196	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U197	This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U198	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 46, against - 3, refraining from - 17. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U199	5. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U200	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 2 and for - 18. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U201	So, six, colleagues. And here's the attention! There's a change sheet. The 6A proposal is therefore a proposal from the Commission responsible for replacing the words ‘maximum turnover’ in the fifth subparagraph with ‘minimum turnover’. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U202	Just a minute! I have a question for the committee rapporteur. Are the two proposals - both 6 and 6A - to be examined, or is it simply a technical mistake? 6A is replaced by 6?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U203	6.A is replaced by 6. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: ‘seven is replaced by four!’ It's laughter.) No, no? Oh, I'm sorry! Yeah, right! Correction! So six. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U204	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 5, for - 15. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U205	It is usually with change sheets... So, colleagues, proposal 6A - the proposal from the committee responsible, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U207	7th and 7th respectively... Let's get it right there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “7B!” ) No. 7B, Mr. Neighbours! 7. - Proposal by Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Eglita. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U209	Last, 8 - the proposal from the committee responsible, which states that the law enters into force on 1 March this year and has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U211	So, colleagues, we have examined all eight proposals. I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U212	Please turn on the microphone for Ingmars Lydak!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U213	Dear colleagues, In view of the fact that there was a vote here against the decision of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, I call for this bill to be handed over to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission for the collection and discussion of additional information in accordance with Article 136 of the Rules of Procedure. Because it would really not be nice for me to get this law back under consideration and to continue the debate again.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U214	Yes! So there's the following proposal under Rule 136... Such a proposal is... Yeah. And one Member can talk about this proposal, one against and one against. Are Members opposed to the return of the draft law (Interface: Yes!) ) Commission for the Prevention of Controversies? So we have to vote for it. Please call me! We will vote for the return of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to avoid conflicts of the draft law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 38, against - 48, refraining from - 1. Consequently, the draft law is not returned to the commission. ( Independence: “No! Not returned!’ ) The commission therefore calls for a vote on the draft law at third, final, final reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on public procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 6, for - 1. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inguna Rībena.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U215	Dear colleagues, Amendments to the Law on Higher Education, third reading. Document No 4474. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U217	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U219	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U220	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U221	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U223	6. - The Legal Bureau's proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U224	5.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U225	5?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U226	5.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U227	Yes! 5. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U229	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The 10th is included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U230	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U231	7. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Partly supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U232	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U233	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Partly supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U235	9. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Partly supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U236	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U237	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U239	11. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U240	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U241	And 12. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U243	Please vote in favour of the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U244	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U245	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has prepared for second reading a draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Notaries”. 15 proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U247	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also of a technical nature related to a single word (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) the exclusion from the version. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U249	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which intends to supplement Article 45.1 with a new - second - part, which will give the right to the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia, which itself maintains the registers referred to in the article without receiving funding from the State for their maintenance, to determine the procedure for issuing the information and the fee for receiving the information from these registers. This specific proposal has been partly supported and included 4. - in the proposal of the Legal Commission, slightly revised.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U250	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U251	4. - a proposal from the Legal Commission, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U253	5. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U255	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also of a editorial nature and encourages the addition of a requirement to include a personal identification number. The Legal Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U257	And then a small comment on progress of work of the commission in relation to Section 15 of the Law, which is not currently considered in amendments. The Legal Commission received a letter from SUSTENTO, the Latvian Organization for the Cooperation of Persons with Special Needs, and the letter rightly pointed out that the requirements included in Article 15 for attracting additional paid witnesses discriminate against people with visual, hearing and speech impairments. A letter from the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia was also received, in which it was explained that costs are higher in cases when a client who is not entitled to refuse the witness, as well as is unable to communicate with an sworn notary other than through a sign language interpreter, it is necessary to identify the present witnesses and the interpreter in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Notary Law. The proposed amendments provide that a client who is blind or deaf shall have the right to refuse witnesses if the person is able to communicate with an sworn notary without using an interpreter of sign language. The current regulation determines the presence of two witnesses in both of these cases. When preparing the draft law for the second reading, representatives of both of these institutions were invited to the sitting of the Legal Commission, and as a result it was decided that despite the fact that from 2020 notaries will have free access to these state registers, the Ministry of Justice will have to consider the possibility of a third reading of an exception for these persons, so that it can take place more quickly. Perhaps it could be January 1, 2019. The Commission therefore decided to discuss this subject for a further third reading. And we come back to the proposals. 7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which has been created by the Permanent Working Group of the Ministry of Justice for the development of amendments to the Civil Procedure Law and is related to the implementation of notary acts. Such a framework could at least partially resolve the problems in the practice of entry into possession. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U259	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Legal Bureau to exclude Article 26 of the draft law, as everything is regulated by other laws and regulations that are binding on a sworn notary, and it is not necessary to reintegrate it into the Notarial Law. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U261	9. - a proposal by the Legal Office to exclude Article 139(8), since that provision is of a general nature and does not give rise to any significant resolution. The Legal Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U263	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is prepared at the initiative of the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia and is related to making notary As the Legal Commission was informed by the representative of the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia, the proposal was prepared with time and taking into account regulations in other European countries, with the addition that the notary will evaluate cases where certifications may be carried out remotely when present, and there is no doubt that the notary will not make a statement if he has not obtained sufficient assurance of identity and will. In the Commission, this proposal has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U265	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which provides for the introduction of a new form of disciplinary punishment - a fine. The procedure for imposing and paying the penalty is established, as well as the rights of the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia regarding the suspension and division of the sentence within time limits. The Legal Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U267	12. - Dzintars Rasnačs' proposal, which specifies the amount which the heir is obliged to deposit with a credit institution entitled to provide financial services in the Republic of Latvia. The Legal Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U269	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The numbering of the transitional provisions shall be specified technically. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U271	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. A terminology clarification similar to that set out in proposal 2. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U273	Finally, 15. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also of a technical nature. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U275	Dear colleagues, The Saeima Legal Commission invites to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U276	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U277	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 6 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U278	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 6 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U279	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law Amending the Road Traffic Law (No 1111/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft laws for the first reading. The draft law has been created by the Ministry of Agriculture, supported by the Cabinet of Ministers and provides for two things. First of all, the number of tractor categories is reduced from eight to four, which will make life easier for farmers, road builders and everyone else. There will be not eight categories, but only four, as is the case in many other European countries. And the second amendment is that national roadworthiness tests for new tractors with an engine duration of less than 250 engine hours will be able to be carried out 24 months after first registered in Latvia. Well, like cars right now. So the law makes life easier for farmers. Supported by the Commission. I call on my colleagues to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U280	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Road Traffic Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U281	Let us also wait until 15 February this year for other issues that should be dealt with in relation to road traffic.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U282	Thank you. Proposals are due by 15 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U283	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services” (No 1110/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these draft laws at first reading. There are, in principle, two things there. One is an issue that has already been moved here on several occasions: amendments relating to the system of decoding of administrative irregularities in sectors. The sanctions imposed on administrative offences have therefore been shifted to sectoral laws. The second is to facilitate the existing arrangements for approving the composition of the members of the Market Surveillance Board. The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I call on you fellow Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U284	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U285	Thank you, colleagues. Let us wait until 6 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U286	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 6 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U287	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” (No 1102/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these draft laws at first reading. This draft law is received from the Cabinet of Ministers. It was originally prepared by the Ministry of Transport and then joined by the Ministry of Economics. There are three main areas - that is quite a spectrum. First of all, the question of the choice of universal service provider. The question is, therefore, how this universal service provider is selected in the field of electronic communications, the role of regulators and so on. The second block of questions, which was also discussed in the Commission, relates to the right for the Consumer Centre to request and receive from electronic communications service providers information on subscribers and users of electronic communications services. The request for this information is foreseen in cases where the Consumer Protection Centre has competence in a case where it is necessary to obtain information about the user or owner of the particular telephone. And the third question in this draft law is. The law has been supplemented by the right for the Central Statistical Office to obtain as necessary information from electronic communications operators - the data to be stored and loaded, because it is necessary for the Central Statistical Office to be able to conduct compilations and surveys on mobile and fixed... use of data. The Commission had quite a discussion, in particular on these last two cases, which were included in the draft law, and will therefore have a sufficiently long deadline for submitting proposals to clarify these issues in line with both data protection and other requirements. The Commission supported the proposal for a first-reading move. I call on you, dear colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U288	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U289	Yes, thank you, colleagues, for your support. As I have already said, the deadline for submitting proposals will be longer - until 1 March this year - so that any necessary clarification can be made.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U290	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 March of this year. Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U291	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” is under consideration at second reading. Draft law was designed to speed up criminal proceedings. And 39 proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal by Members Freeer and Kursīte-Pakules, which provides for the replacement of the word "economic" by the word "economical".
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U292	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U293	Ladies and gentlemen! It's not a language. ( The box “What Is About? ”) ) This is about the system. This is just one example of many cases where the ruling bureaucratic system, which we often hear in this Chamber, tries to include in the law terms that can be translated into different forms and therefore bypasses. On January 17, when this draft law was reviewed at the meeting of the Legal Commission, I asked the Legal Bureau for an explanation of the word “economic”. I have not received such an explanation, and this does not surprise me. In contrast to the word ‘economical’, which is clear, the bureaucratic system of the word ‘economical’ can be interpreted as necessary. We need to spend 10 million economy if we can reach our target by spending two million! The bureaucratic system understands that this will be difficult to prove. But the more economical it is, the system will be able to explain. Greater added value is created, gross domestic product is growing, the economy is developing, there we are praised by bureaucracy abroad. But people will certainly swallow this once again. I understand that this one tiny drop will not change the power of the bureaucratic sea. The laws are full of wordings, and can be done, but can also be avoided if only there is a reason why not do. If someone tries to stand against the system, the system may be heard in this hall as well. However, I call for support for this timid attempt to oppose the protruding wording of the law and to vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U294	Name to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U295	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! I like the zeal with which you can defend anything or fight anything. But legal terminology, as well as economic terminology, has their own rules, their usual practices and their own logic. When we talk about the principle of the economy of criminal repression, we are talking about the fact that a person should be subject not to the most severe punishment, but to the minimum punishment necessary to deter him and others from committing a crime. If we are talking about the economy of the means of criminal proceedings, we are talking about the fact that, when faster and shorter forms of proceedings can be used, it is not necessary to carry out the whole process and to designate all possible experts if the necessary expertise can be designated or may be withheld from the expertise at all. We are not talking about fiscal austerity. We are talking about the funds, about the economy of activity, about the economy of the techniques used. It's not that austerity. Don't, please, play with terminology in areas that you're not quite close to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U296	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U297	I can only add that the Commission has carefully examined this proposal. Although the author of the proposal pointed out that this was an archaic term, we considered that there was no reason to make the relevant amendments. The proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U298	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Members Freeer and Kursīte-Pakules! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 59, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U299	2. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U300	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U301	3. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U302	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U303	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U305	5. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U306	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U307	6. - The proposal of the Legal Office is partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U308	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U309	7. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U311	8 / 8 - the proposal by Members Mr Bieler and Mr Kursīte-Pakules, which is an analogue to proposal 1. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U312	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U313	9. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U315	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U317	11. - a proposal from the Legal Commission defining the concept of suspect. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U319	12. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U321	13. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U323	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U325	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U327	16. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U328	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U329	17. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U330	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U331	18. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U333	19. - A editorial proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U335	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U337	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U339	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been partly supported, including 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U340	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U341	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U343	24. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U345	25. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U346	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U347	26.A proposal similar to proposal 1 has been received from Members of the Freezer and the Course-Pacule. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U348	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U349	27. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis, which extends the rights of the military police to carry out criminal activities. There is quite a lot of debate on this proposal. The Ministry of Justice expressed concerns about this norm and considered that there is also a potential conflict of interest, as now the military police can work in the field, but the proposal provides for the extension of competence. But most of this proposal was supported by the Commission after the evaluation.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U351	The 28th proposal is an analogue to the one tabled by Members Liber and Kursīte-Pakule. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U352	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U353	29. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U355	30. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U357	31. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U359	32. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U361	33. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U363	34. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U365	35. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U367	36. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U369	37. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U371	38. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U373	And the last one is the 39th proposal. It is also from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U375	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U376	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U377	February 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U378	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is February 26, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U379	Dear colleagues, This Law has been in force since this year, according to which credit institutions are required to report to the State Revenue Service on accounts whose turnover exceeds 15 000 euros per year. Since, upon the entry into force of this norm, questions have appeared to the Association of Latvian Commercial Banks and other credit institutions, together with the Ministry of Finance, they have prepared clarifications for this norm, which now, as we will see, calculates the turnover of one individual's accounts in one credit institution together... and individual transactions not included in these accounts. Since this is a rather technical amendment and it is necessary to move forward very quickly, on behalf of the Commission, I ask for support for the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U380	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 55, against - 33, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U381	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U382	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, for - 1, for - 3. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U383	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 February 2018, and consideration at second reading - 8 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U384	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 February this year, examination at the Saeima sitting - 8 February this year. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to third reading of the draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” (No 984/Lp12) until 5 February 2018. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” (No 984/Lp12) until 5 February 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of statements of violations of the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima. Draft decision on the exclusion of Member Artuss Nemiņš from the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U385	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On the basis of the sixth part of Article 179 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application in its meeting of January 17, 2018 examined the case of violation of the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima Member Artusa Neimina. In the course of the proceedings, the panel found... The commission evaluated Member's statements from the Saeima Tribunal on 16 November 2017 and the Saeima meeting on 7 December, which were addressed to Valdis Kalnozols and his family member. The Commission found that Member Artuss Kaimiņš made such a remark from the parliamentary tribunal as “When last time his wife is hit?” “You’re sick!” , and “And I understood, Valdi Kalnozol, in my opinion, you’re really crazy!” , has failed to comply with paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Code of Ethics for Members of the Saeima. Thus, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the seventh paragraph of Article 179 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission decided, by a majority of votes, to exclude Member Artus Kaimiņš from one sitting of the Saeima and to direct the draft decision prepared together with the Legal Bureau for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima today.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U386	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U387	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I understand that common sense always comes into this house, where private interests, lobbies and similar things are based. ( Milestones.) I'm asking... I can’t talk to the hall, I just asked: “Hello, I think, bring Valdis Nanozolas together with Artus Neighbours, so that they push each other’s hand, kiss each other if they can overcome the barrier, and there would be one peace!” Because it's some kind of kindergarten -- call each other crazy, and then we all have to listen. So I hope that I will not have to ask for an extra time. Valdis Nanozols and Artus Neighbours didn't come together, did they? It didn't go. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Brussels: “Let’s accept the Istanbul Convention, then come!” ) Nuja. Just like at school or at university, excellence lasts long, hearing “abc” truths, and to some students “abc” the truth does not go away. However, some may listen to the teacher or teacher. I'll talk to them. So: Parliament is a collegial body of state power consisting of 100 citizens of the Republic of Latvia who have obtained their mandates in free elections. Each of these 100 Members is equally important and, although elected in a particular constituency, he represents the whole nation. And, recalling this, I would like to say that each of them, such as Mr Valdis Kalnozols, or, for example, Ms Inara Mūrniece, who is now chairing the Saeima, or Ms Zenta Tretjaka, or, for example, Mr Artuss Kaimiņš, irrespective of his membership or independence, coalition and other artificial public formations, is equally appreciated. A Member is elected by a nation and, in essence, a Member is the result of an expression of a nation. The primary evaluator of Members' activities is the people. Since the people of the elections can say their views once in four years (and that moment is approaching in a slow spirit - in the autumn, the people will tell you what they think of us!) So basically that primary evaluator is us. In the Saeima, we have set up various commissions, and the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications is one of those that primarily evaluates the adequacy of the Member's actions. Thus, a certain practice of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has developed. I have been looking at 13 years of time: there are the first violations in 2006. And this decision is unprecedented, colleagues! Really! And you will see it from these penalties that have been decided on by the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application - it is really unprecedented, because it is the first so severe punishment for the violation of the parliamentary order roll. Although in addition to Artuss, there have been other parliamentarians who have made different political careers, with different kinds of expressions. Like Dobel, Waldmann, Greenberg, Tabun. So let's see. I don't have enough time... Violation of paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Code of Ethics for Members of the Saeima. In fact, a large part of these violations have only ended with warnings at all. Peteris Tabulins was punished with a written warning in 2006, Daina Kazakas - in 2012. And Andrejs Judin, who was incriminated in 2014, closed the case. Similarly, a number of cases have been closed and an oral warning with an entry in the minutes of the hearing has been given. For example, in 2006 it was said to Janis Jurkans, last year - Andrejs Elksniņš. In the case of infringement of paragraph 7, cases are often closed. For example, in 2016, last year - against August Brigman, in 2015 - against Karlis Sergeant, against me - Ringolds Balodi - and Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš. In 2011, a similar practice was in the case against Nikolai Kabanov. Colleagues, however, I would like to say that this high penalty, this exclusion... Well, well, the neighbor won't go to one sitting, God with him! But basically, we will be raising that line very high - for a simple start-up of the mouth, where two colleagues at kindergarten level are calling each other, we will be putting our colleagues out of hand for a whole sitting, not allowing him to take the floor in the political debate. I think that is wrong. Similarly, the practice was distorted before: a warning was given to him about the fact that the colleague had expressed his opinion on the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government when he said that he had not worked. Well, what if anyone says that all 100 Members are not working? So he needs to be shot here on the stairs public, as China does?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, However, my fellow Members ask that practice not be distorted or voted for this reason on the exclusion of the neighbourhood from one sitting. Any other warning might be. For example, publish in the “Latvian Official” several times about the behaviour of the village. But it would be a distortion of practice, and that is wrong. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U388	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U389	Colleagues! Maybe many of you have a feeling like me: Don't pull me inside this Yandal between two K-neighbourly and Nagornosole! It does not honor the prestige of the Saeima, nor does it like to participate in it! But some decision will have to be made, so that I'm not the interceptor. And for that reason, some remarks on this issue. I will be opposed to the specific decision. And by finding that the commission is unable to adequately decide on such a political cab, it is already another format, which is taking over more and more of us here... Time and signs indicate that there should be an institution independent of Members to decide on such ethical issues - on the correct behaviour of Members - which could make an adequate decision. We're not able here anymore. This reminds me of a hockey game where fighting takes place between two. As long as one strikes, the judge is watching it, watching it, and the public is excited. And then at some point the judge's time: "Well it's enough!" There's been the same thing. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications is involved at one point. The fact that the voter will decide, as Mr Balozh said, now the public likes it... It likes the public, it likes the press, and we create more and more this format in the political cabare. The public demands it, the media show it. In this particular case, they were two martial artsmen, two took them well, and a commission of Mandates, ethics and applications... In my opinion, they are unhappy now to be a judge on that matter and to judge something, but then they make a rather absurd decision - not to let the neighbourhood now have one sitting. There is a sin: forced "voluntary" will not work. At the same time, it seems that the issue is also a financial one, which is essentially a sanction. But we don't mention that anywhere. And the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, which should decide on ethics in this case, takes and decides on financial sanctions. Come on, come on! This may not have been the most difficult case for Artus’s neighbor. I will say it conservatively. Conservatives... Well, starting your mouth against women. ( Internouncing call.) Here we... That's acceptable, isn't it? No, however, I try conservatively to see differences - a woman and a man. I think you shouldn't treat a woman as such at times when you're having a hard - grown puberty. Yes! But such matters could be dealt with just like men -- they take them and put them down. There was Spolitis tried it, but himself was punished in that case. I think that the members of the panel are really neither happy nor able to decide on such matters. In future, we need to think about a new body that is independent of Members. Whether it is the Ombudsman or the Omnibuss or the Delna or the Profit, call it what you want, but Members unfortunately do not have to do it, they are unable to do it. And I do not support the specific penalty or this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U390	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. Dear colleagues, I have to say that Members of Parliament have been asked to continue the sitting of the Saeima on 1 February this year, without interruption, until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? Members agree. We're continuing the sitting all the time. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. ( Independence: “I’m sorry! I'm sorry! Sisters and Brothers!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U391	Yeah, Ringold! In principle, I have no insult to Artus. Artus and I have had a nice jump at my wife's tavern. We've been chatting nicely enough with Dave Stalt. I don't have any insults in principle. If you get acquainted with the substance of the matter, then in fact it is... My wife was mostly the one who made the application. I don't know why Mr. Orlov is acceptable to Mr. Aivars Krasnogolovs, and when Aivars Krasnogolovs writes, the commission of Mandates and ethical applications meets together, but if Kristīne Kalnozols is written, it doesn't come together... And then there were talks with my group members. I join them: I think this is a purely ethical issue. If you believe that we are building a political career and our supporters with that - which is more successful, more attractive, more effective in humiliating the other... Well, okay, maybe there are people here who are excited about it. It doesn't make me excited. I'm not excited that many have been here... Just because some journalists are once unethical, aggressive and unpleasantly offended. This is unacceptable to me. Maybe someone here is acceptable, and that’s very much what he likes: “Oh, how did he offend him! How humiliated him!” This is just about this... I appreciate myself. You, Mr. Artus... I don't have anything... You can humiliate, no matter how, I can now kiss your legs. If you want to, I'll even go prove it. I can go down my knees and ask for forgiveness. I'm not offended. Sory! But I have a big request. Let's try for ideas! Let's fight for ideas - who's better, cooler! And let's not try to compete who's humiliating more!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U392	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U393	Colleagues! There's one question here: Why do we have to pour the oil ourselves into the fire? Because ironically, I think this case is good for both of you, Artus, and Valdis Kalnozols. Both are good! Because that's what Artus is waiting for right now. He's already ready, because people record in cameras, he's already waiting to distribute the press release and start Facebook video, as he's in the role of the victim, and so on. In turn, Valdis is likely to say with great pride: it is as if we are reducing that Artus! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Kalnozols: “I didn’t say that!” ( ) Why should we do so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think this is an unprecedented case where I still have doubts about proportionality. Both of these people... I think next generation, when assessing the work of this Saeima, will not be able to say that... after those moves to say that it was... Well, the chaksque is a calculating... and some political ethics, culture has been respected... But they're both good. In a way. Secondly, colleagues, it also affects the remuneration or funding of certain Members. One thing, of course, is the majority, a coalition which, perhaps, can make it much easier for Mr Nanosol to ensure this superiority in the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosol: “What advantage?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What are you talking about?” ) Coalition... rather, its financial dilemma is, to the extent possible, to give up the salary in order to avoid situations that are not bad. The second case is basic funding. Why should we intervene in this?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think that the Commission's decision was disproportionate. I do not want to participate in that farce, so it was my duty to come here and reason why I will vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U394	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U395	I'm not a victim. And I absolutely do not consider myself to be guilty of expressing my opinion. Dear colleagues, vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U396	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U397	I would be very grateful if we were not to view the humiliation of the other person here as an expression of opinion.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U398	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U399	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! During our joint work at this Saeima, I have had moments when I wanted to rob Mr. Neminis and put him on his shoulder and say, “Artus, you’re a bit of a bit!” But there are moments when I've been ashamed. Of course, you can't be ashamed of the other person. The fact as such is that each one is in itself. But I'm ashamed because he's my partner here in the Saeima. And the Saeima is what the public is looking at! I think that many in our society, like me, do not accept this familiarity that Mr. Neiminina has brought into our Saeima. For example, it is unacceptable for me to be able to speak to an elderly person who has not allowed me to speak to "you" in such a calm and public way. I cannot accept the fact that the facts are shared between the right and the left. To this end, we have other facilities and other experts to diagnose. It is unacceptable for me that people are hovered and that they are not talking about content, not about thoughts, not about opinions and ideas, but about a person's external qualities, physical characteristics, what group he owns, whether he is a woman or a man and other characteristics. This platform must be a place where we fight using our intelligence, our intelligence, our own arguments, rather than humiliating one another. And at such moments, I'm really ashamed. We must not give such an example to society. What, then, do we wonder when we read on our social networks? There is a horror to open comments, because there is often, apart from the rude lunatics, you can't read anything else. Very rarely, a comment on content is made, mainly in the form of calling, hanging of tags, and rude lamous words. I also question the punishment measure as such in this case. Do we really have to apply such a harsh punishment in this case? But that my colleague, Artus Kaimiņš, deserves to be punished for what he has talked about here from this tribunal, I am absolutely sure.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U400	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add to the mandate, ethics and application to the commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the exclusion of Member Artusa Neiminina from the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 24, for - 17. No decision has been taken. ( Interface: “There will be work to be done! ” ) Dear colleagues! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. With regard to answering Members' questions today, I would like to inform you. On questions from Members addressed to Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Aseraden, No 377, No 378, No 379, No 380, No 381, No 382, No 3885, No 386, No 387, No 388, No 389, No 390, No 395, the Minister has informed him that he will reply orally, but because of the disease he will not be able to respond today. Member of the Minister of Health of Zarina, Morozova, Ribakova, Cilevičs and Potapkin “On the implementation of the e-health project and its compliance with basic basic requirements”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs us that due to the busy time it will not be possible to arrive to give an oral answer. On the question of Member Lazareva, Zariņa, Tretjaka, Tutina and Jakimova, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, about the implementation of an oncology plan and the use of innovative targeted therapy. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. On the question of Member Zariņa, Adamson, Tretjaka, Zuvėv and Nikonovas, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, about possible illegal construction in the territory of Pāvilosta parish. The question was referred to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. On the question of Member of the Minister of Health of Zarina, Adamson, Tretjaka, Zuvėv and Nikonovas “On provision of the information system required for the implementation of the conditions for the provision of the services provided by the Health Care Financing Act”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs us that due to the busy time it will not be possible to arrive to give an oral answer today. On the question of Member Zarina, Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Mirska and Ivan Klementyev, acting Minister for Health, Maris Kučinskis, about the introduction and development of e-health. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs us that due to the busy time it will not be possible to arrive to give an oral answer. The question asked by Members Viļums, Šics, Freezers, Krūmiņš and Platoper has been received: "On the election of the rectorate of Daugavpils University". We give it to the Minister for Education and Science to respond. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! For the notification of the results of the registration, the name to the member of the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U401	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Gaidis Berzins, Ivars Laisvers, Lolita Čigāne, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Romanas Miloslavskis, Romanas Naudiņš and Edvins Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-01-PT12-463-U402	I'm closing the sitting.
