ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the Saeima sitting! First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On the amendment of the Constitution of the Latvian Maritime Academy”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Law on National Material Reserves” (No 1248/Lp12) until 27 September 2018. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision on the approval of Laura Frances as a district (city) court judge to be on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the draft decision on the approval of Ilya Grigoriev as a judge of a district (city) court be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law Amending the rail law to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks that the draft decision “On the approval of the mandate of the Member of the 12th Saeima of Arvīds Ulmes be included on the agenda of the sitting, while the elected Members from the list of the Greens and Farmers Union candidates in the Riga constituency fulfil their ministerial duties”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. I would add that the Commission is asking for this item on the agenda to be placed on the agenda of the Saeima sitting as a first item. Let us start by looking at the agreed agenda. On the agenda - draft decision “On approving the mandate of Member of the 12th Saeima of Arvīds Ulmes while Members elected from the list of candidates of the Union of Greens and Farmers in the Riga constituency fulfil their ministerial duties”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, The Saeima Mandate... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 12 September this year, the committee of the Saeima’s Mandates, Ethics and Applications examined the application of Member Askolds Kļaviņš regarding the establishment of the mandate of Member of the 12th Saeima. Arvīds Ulme, who has agreed to take up the post of Member of the Saeima, is the next candidate from the Union of Greens and Farmers on the Riga electoral district list. As a result, Arvīds Ulme confirms the 12th Saeima Member's mandate for a period of time, while the elected Members of the Union of Greens and Farmers in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U4	Good morning, Communist Saeima! Good morning, Saeima to check! Good morning, Mrs. Moore. I think this table could be as quiet as it was... You know, you could just take it off as quietly as you can... We have worked hard this week in the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs to open cheque bags as soon as possible. The decision in the commission is... has not been unanimous, but a majority has supported the opening of cheque bags as soon as possible. In this case, however, today, on 13 September, we must approve as if a young Member, but in fact not a new Member... who would like to be a Member, Arvīds Ulme. Arvīds Ulme himself pointed out that he had been rapporteur for the KGB. And it is “packed” so that he is a good rapporteur. There are good rapporteurs, there are bad rapporteurs. But the rapporteur in the KGB has been. Has he been a Communist? I just came to him and asked him, and he said he wasn't a Communist. At least they don't remember it. I asked him: ‘Mr Ulmes, please tell me have you worked for the Saeima?’ He said: “Yes, I have worked in the Supreme Council.” “And, say, have you ever been working for the Saeima?” - “I don’t remember. Oh, yeah, I'm working. Yes, I was in the Saeima twice.” Then, for the second time, he doesn't remember that either. This gentleman may not remember many things. But the fact that there are now 33 Communists in the Saeima, we are all very well informed. We will not know the number of Czechs or former Czechs who do not really try to be, in this 33 Communist group, until we publish the content of these Czech bags. I very much hope that our President of Latvia, Mr Vējonis, will not use his mandate and will not give back to the Saeima the law on the public disclosure of Czech bags. I believe that this must be done as soon as possible. Unfortunately, we will not be able to do this by 6 October, when elections are held, so that the public can see what is inside these Czech bags. This will take place by the end of this year, the publication will take place by 1 May. But the problem is... It may be that the Czechs and Communists do not really leave this subject, but the taxpayers will leave. The Saeima's basic salary is EUR 1904. If you confirm this man's authority, he'll get one salary plus... then there will be elections, where I think he will not be elected. And then he'll get the parliamentary compensation. ( Subtotal: “Do not receive! ”) ) Receive, receive, Mr. Orlov! You haven't talked to the Law Office. ( Independence: “No! Don’t get it!” ) And... I think the Rules of Procedure are best known by the Legal Bureau. Look at the old Czechs, Communists start attacking me! Good morning! The idea is that if you approve the mandate of this Member for a month, which is in fact... Even in the Labour Act, the test time is three months... then he will receive this one-month salary, plus then he will receive the three-month Member's salary as compensation. That will be six thousand euros net! Two thousand more... So, eight thousand euros for your approval for one month! So what's he gonna do in that month? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He doesn't even really know which commissions he wants to work on. I don't understand why the ZZS... You're... Well... Well... Well... Can you not stand without the mandate of one Member for two three sittings of the Saeima that remain? Do you really need that? Maybe leave that money in the Saeima budget, leave unused taxpayers' money, and in this way we would really use the Saeima effectively... taxpayers' cash resources. For the test time... I have told you about the time of the test, about the Czechs and the Communists, you have also heard. I firmly believe that the Saeima does not need 34. - Maybe! - a Communist or KGB rapporteur. I therefore call for this Member's mandate not to be supported... 13. Membership of the European Parliament 12. Saeima, sorry, I thanked you! 12. To the post of Member of the Parliament, yes. So, please, get this table out of here too! You don't need all this. Mr Baloža, please continue.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U5	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Speaker of the Saeima! Well, what about money, what about values... In this case, the national association wants to talk about values. So, first of all... If there is a possibility to choose to vote in favour or against - and this choice exists - then of course it is necessary to vote in favour or against. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Not “abstain”!” ) Certainly, in this case, it is clear that this is an unnecessary step: if the people have given their mandate to Mr Ulmes, then, of course, we must take action and do at least part of the work that Solvita Āboltiņa failed in his time, which will now carry out the difficult tasks of the country in sunny Italy. And for several years she worked in the working group on the parliamentary order roll. Undoubtedly, when voting on missions... Well, colleagues, it's a nightmare for someone! Well, what are we here... Then let us confirm every step that the Member is taking! Of course it's unnecessary! It is, of course, unnecessary to vote in this case, too. But the National Association will vote against Ulme's approval, of course, on the basis that if the majority follow our example, which is a political step, then, of course, one can get a wedding, which is decided by the Constitutional Court. Maybe. However, I personally and also the National Association cannot vote in favour of a Czechist who himself admitted that he was actually a stukachi who was in these... Especially in these circumstances, at this time, when we are discussing KGB bags, whether or not to open them up. This is where rumors and combinations wander around that, yes, will accept, but then the Vējonis will also return... It's all in agreement! You will not see those checkers before or after the elections. No, colleagues, you can't do that! And in this case... Although I myself went to a demonstration by Mr Ulmes against the subway organised by the Environmental Protection Club... I was really excited to listen to him. I didn't mean I'm going to vote against him because he turns out to be a Czech stuff. In this case, of course, you can also talk about the Communist co-responsible, who will climb here in a tributary and passionate talk about the state of Latvia and the like. But I want to say, however... However, this is a political step and we want to show clearly that we are against the Czechs in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U7	Name to Member Augustis Brigman.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U8	Good morning, colleagues! The nearness of pre-election passions and elections has fallen asleep in the common sense of some Members. I think what are we talking about right now? We are talking today about a person who has voted in favour of Latvia's independence. And that is obviously a very serious argument that we are talking about today. And many who spoke before me... apparently some of them were still walking under the table, not thinking that there would be independence of Latvia and how it would be. Now they're passionate speakers! Some of the good things that have changed the parties are now coming here with the national plantation and in the beams. Colleagues! I just want to say one thing: I've had a very close connection with Arvīds Ulmi... time contact. And maybe many do not know it: when the Supreme Council was elected, we started as two competitors in the same constituency. At the time, Arvīds Ulme was driven from the People's Front and he was voted and I can only be pleased that this step took place because he showed himself as a patriot of Latvia, as a person who cares about the future of Latvia. And right now, questioning his sow, his confidence in Latvia and so on - it is simply populist and, I would like to say, even unfair. I will therefore vote in favour of accepting his mandate. Whether he was a Czech or not a Czech, let it be decided by the court and dealt with this matter! Here's the mention of his activities that have been before... which was in the time of Awake. I remember there were all these subway shares held by the Environmental Protection Club, it was a whole series of shares. And at that point nobody particularly thought whether these shares were organized by a cheque or by Arvīds as president of the Environmental Protection Club. I am convinced of Arvīds Ulme's national booth, and I will support him. And I call on you to do this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U9	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U10	Dear colleagues, The Constitution of the Republic of Latvia states that the Saeima has 100 people. And now we are in a situation where there is a vacant chair of this hundred people. We do not choose what the results of the elections are. We are now working each politically on what the outcome of the next parliamentary elections will be. Consequently, in this vote, the Unity as a reasonable and constitutionally obedient group will not vote politically, as colleagues have pointed out, or ideologically for whether or not we like the results of the elections. We very much hope that there will be a large number of mandates in the forthcoming parliamentary elections for Unity. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “It won’t be!” ) We very much hope that those who gain the number of other mandates will not vote here politically for or against the approval of a Member who has obtained a mandate. Colleagues! During this pre-election period, I think, let us honour the oath that each of us here in this troupe has made, that we will observe the Constitution. And let's not make a distinction between colleagues in the opposition or coalition, whether we like them politically or not. There's very little time left. Let the voters make their choice! The political group will not vote in favour or against Mr Ulmes. THE Unity of the political group will not appreciate what Mr Ulmes has done. It must be evaluated by the voters. A political group will vote according to the Constitution. If Mr Ulmes takes an oath, then we must confirm this oath by a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U11	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U12	Hello, brothers and sisters! We're talking here about stukachi. We're talking about Czech bags. I want to help you to understand better what these check bags are. They are not stunts, it is an excellent instrument that allows us to manipulate public opinion, conscience, judges, police and other officials. Also with Members. I do not know why we very well accept that there are Members who are suspected of being members of the KGB. We've already talked here about Sputnik... that do not know why National Associations are not interested in this “Sputnik” employee. I have said many times that there are Members who even control security services... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Actions, please!” ) On which it has been said that they have dealt with such matters during the Soviet period. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Mr. Nanozol, facts, please! Who are those who control?’ ) No security service has been interested in this. Therefore, in my opinion, what is happening at the moment is a kind of revenge. Because in fact this instrument was what the Soviets were... and, today too, this instrument - I have proof! - works. Place those who are not desirable. If necessary, break down their families, if necessary - initiate criminal cases, if necessary - release rumours, when and what they have done. This instrument is still alive. And what happens at the moment in the Chamber with Arvid also indicates that this instrument created during the Soviet period, which allows us to be manipulated, is alive. I can give evidence that this instrument is still manipulating, for example, the main editor of the media “Delfi” Inga Bērzins. And if you want to say that this is not true, I will prove to you that this instrument is still working. And Delfi is also being manipulated through these instruments. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “For the ex-husband of Inga Spriģis!” ) For the moment being, this issue that we are looking at - about Arvid - is more evidence of his being accomplice to this Czech instrument than of his being - on the contrary - his behaviour on the part of the Czechs did not like it, and this is a kind of revenge to him. I don't know why Godman's pappa documents disappeared, and many other documents have disappeared somewhere, in fact. A Arvīds, see, they're all valid. I'm sorry, I've been in contact with these cheque bag coordinators. But no one can say that this man is honest and with conscience. I think the last smuggles and nuns, who will not be able to destroy your family, to destroy... Your kids and the devil know what to do. And we cover them here! But still many come with proposals to put the Supreme Council in here. And it is still not MEPs who have the highest authority, but those people who have been created by the KGB, and the KGB are still working on those people who have been placed here during the KGB. In my opinion, this is the most illegal action that is being taken here against the activist of the Awakening Time. And let those few political forces obey what comes here and talk about the Czechs. I could show that dear friends, whom I call grey forces, have sufficiently sat down their small “dog method” cantories and enough works with their dog method. Without these grey forces or cheque bag coordinators, “dog methods” would not have such recognition. I'm sorry. And I begged Arvīds to be very sorry as one of the people who raised our people's awakening in due time, fought that our consciousness, as it were, would rise... Apologies for these words that were given to him. It is harshly unfair against what he has done with a clean conscience. Whether he was in cheque bags or not in cheque bags to judge the court, not us here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U13	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U14	Dear President, Honourable Members! Yeah, really weird talk is to be listened to. In the 28th century of the restored independence of Latvia we find that no agents actually exist, they deserve to be in the Saeima! And so on. So we have... What Mr. Nunozol said... 400 judgments have been... Those who have found their name in the card have submitted their name to the court for annulment... What are the results, honourable colleagues? In all 400 cases, the court has recognised that the documents are authentic, no document is forged, but has overturned several court judgments... that is, not judgments, but... has decided that there is no evidence that the person concerned has been an agent. There are also Members sitting among us whose names are in the card, and the court has recognised that they are not... And then a miracle, Mr. Nanozol, is happening - this commission, which investigates the KGB documents, suddenly finds that this justified person of the court has written four reports on his colleagues. But the truth has admitted... because it had no evidence at that time... I can't say much about Mr Ulmes, but I have a question: why has he given up? Because the case had already been brought before the court to admit that Mr. Ulmes was not... But now we have the information that he has submitted to the prosecutor's office a document that he refuses this court, that is, agrees with the conclusions that led to his recognition as an agent. But let others explain it! The book of poet Valdis Atals has just been published. ( I think Mr. Brigmanis can also read.) There he writes quite a lot about Mr Ulmes, how the youth organisation was transferred and how all those things happened there. But we're not those judges! If something is lied there, Mr Ulmes can, of course, sue Valdis Atal in court and say that this is not true. But the National Association has no need to hit one or the other individually. It is shameful that at all time there was such a suggestion that KGB agents should not participate in elections. Why? Because there are hundreds who have admitted and who have already said during the 5th Saeima that they have been self-made or forced. They told me honestly they didn't stand for it. And those people who have honestly said... those who have made public... Why can many well - known people say that, while others have been lying for 28 years? Very many continue to lie! And that is why we, the National Association, believe that one of the main tasks of the centenary of Latvia is to ban the participation of these KGB agents in the next Saeima. Second. This is shameful to us. The late law on the opening of this cartet must be adopted in this composition of the Saeima. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U15	The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U16	You see, Mr Ulmes, you've not got a mandate yet, but how much information you need to know, right?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Do you need all this? It's just the first and perhaps the only month... Mr Ulmes, in my opinion, has not been a Communist. Mr. Ulmes... about his operations with... some reports and so on... I don't know what you've written here, it's your case. I think... Again... It is simply disproportionate - EUR 8000... for one month's work. And when it comes to what the representative of the Unity said... that they stick to the Constitution and will do everything that the Constitution says... I would like to remind my colleagues here how the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission meeting was held this week specifically on the opening of Czech bags. I do not know where Chigan is already in a party, whether in a Unity or in a Neparty or in any other party, but in any case she represents the group or group I am now looking at, and in principle Mrs Chigan was the only one who tried to bake this process as much as possible so that Czech bags could not be opened as soon as possible. It was her... She sought a wide range of legal grounds to avoid doing so. ( Interface: ‘ Talk on the subject! ’) ) Once again. Most of them, however, were of common sense...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U17	Mr President, I call for a debate on the draft decision, which is on the agenda!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U18	Well, wait, Nagornosol speaks to the left and to the right! I haven't even spent some time yet, and I haven't talked about the thing...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U19	Do not discuss with the Chair of the sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U20	I really was talking about a thing...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U21	Continue the debate on the draft decision, which is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U22	Because I think you... It's the last time you're using this microphone right now... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri's intermediate names.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U23	Talk about the draft decision on the agenda. ( The drug is noise. (See the box below.) Thank you. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U24	Time...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U25	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U26	Good morning, colleagues! I must say that I did not know Mr Ulmes in the late 1980s. At that time, I started working in the daily newspaper “Daena”, and I rode in barricades just like everyone else at that time. But I remember that Mr Ulmes was one of the first to start Awakening at all, becoming the first president of the Environmental Protection Club in 1987, and everything from the Environmental Protection Club also started if I remember correctly. Those who were active in the Czechs were already in politics in the early 1990s. I also remember the proud carry-over of the Czech bag on the cheque stairs, because I was the first journalist to whom Mr Johanson then gave an interview, and I remember that I had not seen the second person so happy in his life as he looked like him. When the cheque bags came to the Saeima, they came under direct supervision of Andrejs Krastiņš, who was a member of the LNNK. And then it was said that the members of the LNNK were the first to clean up these bags in their own interests. (Laughter) So it's talking everywhere. What do I mean? It is not here that we decide whether or not Mr Ulmes can be a Member. But whether he has such a right is decided, firstly, by the voter, and secondly, by the Central Electoral Commission, which analyses everyone for and against. Then there is the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima, which also analyses “for” and “to”. And all these three institutions have said that Mr. Ulmes... may be present. We do not, of course, know why he wrote this application in the prosecutor's office so that there is no trial. Maybe he just had no money for this court... We don't know. And when Mr Ulmes will be a Member, he will be able to come here in the platform and explain how it happened to him and what is actually there in these materials. But if we begin here, politically motivated, to vote in favour or against the approval of a Member's mandate, then at some point, for example, it may be that, in the next Saeima, a part will call for a Member who is suspected of, for example, illegal party financing not to approve the mandate. Please! What is it, something worse? It's okay! (Applause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U27	The name to Member Augusto Brigman, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U28	Colleagues, the problem is that today Arvīds cannot come here himself, and many things can be explained. I think that is why we also have to talk here ourselves and to say a few words instead of him. I personally believe - and we have discussed it in an association - that a Member is not ethically compensated for a Member when he takes up his duties a few weeks before the end of this Saeima... We have discussed this with Arvīds Ulmi and he has assured us that he will not take this compensation. He will not take this compensation! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “How can he get away if he gets credited?” ) This question is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U29	Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U30	I will be very brief, colleagues. If there were no opening process for cheque bags that went so heavy for those 24 years since the law was passed, there would also not, I think, be this debate on Mr Ulmes. And seeing how passionate it is to defend your ZZS, I think this is not just about attacking yours and now you are defending yours... It's just... as I see it, we are now being prepared for slow steps: the Czechist - that's nothing, that's good. At the end, this law will be very interesting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Brigmann and the deposit E. Putra’s transcripts.) I hope you will still be men and you will vote in favour of opening your cheque bags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U31	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? So on behalf of the Commission, the rapporteur does not want to add anything. I call on Arvīd Ulmi to make a solemn promise. ( The box “You Will Not Vote? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U32	As a member of the Saeima, I swear to the Latvian people to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U33	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the approval of the mandate of the Member of the 12th Saeima of Arvīds Ulmes while the elected Members from the list of the Greens and Farmers Union candidates in the Riga electoral region fulfil their ministerial duties”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. I call on Arvidas Ulmi, a Member of the Saeima, to take a seat in the Saeima's meeting room. We shall continue to examine the agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials” be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Plant Variety Protection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Plant Variety Rights”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Culture Capital Foundation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr Adamovich, will you talk about it? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Adamovics: “On the change of commission.” ) So there is a proposal for a change of commission. Please turn on the microphone for Aldi Adamovich!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U34	Dear colleagues, In view of the fact that these amendments provide for changes to the use of excise duty in favour of the State Culture Capital Fund and the fiscal impact, I call for these amendments to be passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U35	And make it a commission. Thank you. So we have to vote in favour of transferring the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Culture Capital Foundation” to the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) establishing that it is the committee responsible. Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The honourable colleagues, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications have submitted a draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 142 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Autopaying overpaid taxes”. Do Members object to the inclusion of an own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted a draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On Revocation of Members” of 10 078 Latvian citizens”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. Report by the Saeima Bureau on the granting of leave. On 13 September this year, Arvīds Platoper was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Arvīds Platoper, requesting that unpaid leave be granted on 13 September of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision ‘On the approval of Laura Frances as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U36	Dear colleagues, The draft decision “On the approval of Laura Frances as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 11 September of this year. On 22 October 2015, the Saeima appointed Laura Franci as a judge of a district (city) court. The Council for the Judiciary, on the basis of the law, imposed on her to perform the duties of a judge in Jelgava court. In connection with judicial reform, Laura France was recognised as a judge of Zemgale district court (Jelgava) on March 1, 2018, and the judge has participated in at least 30 different seminars and trainings to improve her qualification. The judge specializes in criminal proceedings. Positive feedback from Chairmen of Zemgale regional court and Zemgale district court has been received for work of the judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee has evaluated her professional activities positively and delivered a positive opinion for the appointment of a judge without limitation of the term of office. The Legal Commission unanimously supported the decision on the approval of Laura Frances as a district (city) court judge without any limitation of his term of office. Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, call for support for the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Laura Frances as a district (city) court judge. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. And on the agenda - draft decision on the approval of Ilya Grigoriev as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U38	During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 11 September this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Ilya Grigoriev as a judge of a district (city) court” was also reviewed. On 22 October 2015, the Saeima appointed Ilja Grigoriev as a judge of a district (city) court. The Council for the Judiciary ordered Ilija Grigoriev to perform the duties of a judge in the Liepaja court. In connection with judicial reform, on 1 February 2018, the judge was recognised as a judge of Kurzeme district court (Liepija). In order to improve his qualification, the judge has participated in 27 seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia. The judge is specialised in the examination of civil cases. Positive feedback from the Chair of Kurzeme district court and Chair of the Chamber of Civil Cases of Kurzeme regional court has been received about the work of the judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee has assessed the positive professional activity of a judge of Kurzeme district court and delivered a positive opinion for the approval of a judge in his post without limitation of the term of office. The Legal Commission, voting unanimously, supported the draft decision on the approval of Ilya Grigoriev as a district (city) court judge without limitation of the term of office. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Ilya Grigoriev as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Members are asked to change the agenda of the sitting. Members Cilinskis, Mūrniece, Balodis, Laizāne, Brigmanis, Chair, Money, Kursīte-Pakule and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium has received a request from Member Jūlia Stepanenko, Inguna Silver, Aivara Meija, Mihaila Zemļinska, Ivana Ribakova, Vladimira Nikonova, Jānis Adamsona, Zenta Tretjakas, Igora Zuveva, Arthur Rubika and Romana Miloslavska to the Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On measures to protect the interests of the society “Paparde Flower” financed by the Society’s Society and Open Society Foundations to repeal Article 10.1 of the Education Law”. This request shall be made available to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. The word for motivation to Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U40	Dear colleagues, The Saeima adopts the law, the President announces it, the Cabinet of Ministers establishes rules on the basis of this law, but then a non-governmental organization goes to the Soros Foundation or Open Society Foundations and receives funding to repeal this law. More! They receive funding to repeal this law, particularly in the light of pre-election measures, both before the 13th Saeima elections and before the municipal elections... This is what we can read in the respective “Papardes Flower” report on the activities of 2016, and the project name is REACH. MOVE. CHANGE. More! When there is a shortage of money to implement this project, the "Paparde Flower" goes to the Society Integration Fund and receives a little more than 13 thousand euros to ensure that this action is continued until the 13th Saeima elections. Therefore, we demand that Mr Kučinska, as the person responsible for the functioning of the Society Integration Fund, assess whether such a foreign-funded approach to Latvian law, with particular emphasis on pre-election time, is not an interference in elections, that interference in the free state's internal affairs and that public funds are allocated to such activities, which have already been paid from foreign funds, should not be considered a waste of funds. And the last question. What other activities does the Society Integration Fund pay to civil society? Could the abolition of the reform of the OIC, for example, also be financed by the Society Integration Fund? Could the abolition of property tax on the sole property also be financed in this way? Does the Society Integration Fund finance only the abolition of a law that may not be convenient for another foreign society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U41	Thank you. The request is therefore submitted to the Commission. The following items are on the agenda - reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Cilinska, Mūrniece, Baloža, Laizāne, Brigmanis, Chair, Money and other draft laws presented "Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations" be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member has applied to speak about” Einars Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U42	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations” is necessary to clarify certain norms that will all benefit the applicants for this support. The most important of these is the submission of a request for a state aid grant... Thus, so that the average income of the person requesting the aid does not exceed 75 per cent of the national minimum wage... In the past, it was 50 percent, which is still very low. So now, seeing practically how it happens, we can raise this level... And a number of further clarifications, including the recipients of service pensions, have been forgotten; this has been corrected in the draft law. Please support the transfer of this draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Although in fact it does not require additional budget resources, these are still financial issues, so this commission would be appropriate. And I call on the Commission to move them forward quickly enough so that we can accept it during this parliamentary period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U43	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “On disposal of real estate for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass””, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U44	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would remind you that forced expropriation of immovable property is allowed only if it has occurred on the basis of a separate law. We are looking at the draft law at the Saeima sitting today, whether it has been for the public's needs, has happened in exceptional circumstances and against a fair remuneration. We are therefore looking at draft laws on the disposal of real estate for public needs: the implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass”. The Legal Commission invited interested parties, including the owner, to the hearing. The Commission listened to the project promoter, the Ministry of Transport, and found that no agreement was possible between the owner and the Ministry of Transport. The main challenge is the assessment of real estate. It must be pointed out that a dispute about the amount of remuneration is not settled by the commission, it is settled in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Civil Procedure Law. The Commission decided, after hearing all interested parties, to support this draft law for first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U45	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U46	Good morning, honourable colleagues! As I promised you, every time the Saeima's agenda again raises the issue of expropriation of the current land in order to build a "golden road" in Latvia, I will be on this platform and knock on common sense. And once again I remind you that, of course, formally this is just a question of the legal nature of how to dispose of one small plot of land once again, because it is necessary for building a road, so to say... that no decision has been taken here that funds are being allocated... how expensive the road is, and so on... But the project has already been approved as such. And again I remind you why this is a "golden road": construction of one road is planned to invest as much money as the Ministry of Transport can invest in reconstruction of all roads in Latvia in five years. One way to build a road! I would also remind you once again that of these expenditures - 180 million - 80 million are just about attracting resources. You all received one application in the last days, in the last month, from the residents of Vilce Parish. There is a public meeting with members of the Saeima tonight, because there is a public story that every road is to be decided by the Saeima. This, of course, does not correspond to the truth, because the decision about each road project is not made here in the Saeima, but this is one unique case – the Saeima decides to build one particular road without taking into account the real situation in Latvia. It is planned to invest as much in one way as the Latvian State can invest in all other ways in five years! Perhaps there are people who not only for years but even for decades are unable to get answers to questions about why there is no correction of a specific section of the road they use on a daily basis, which is needed to be able to develop business there, bring children to school, get quality health care. So I call on you once again to remember common sense, to be economic and to think about the development of the whole country, not just how to eject a large amount of money once again through a single project, from which something will also get past the road, into some other pockets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U47	The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U48	Colleagues! Very short. It is known that Mrs. Silver and sometimes Mr. Platoper... they often speak against this type of bill (other colleagues may not be aware of it, or they have not drawn attention to it). But the Legal Commission has a decision No.7 of the minutes of the meeting of 26 May 2011 of Ķekava Municipality Council, where, by the way, it was decided on the necessity of disposal of specific real estate for the implementation of this construction project. And this protocol shows that all the members of the Council have voted in favour, including Mrs Silvera's former member of the party, Mr Platoper. That is probably very significant. And then the question arises as to why Mrs Silver is not talking about it at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U49	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U50	No, nothing is added on behalf of the Commission. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U51	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the disposal of real estate for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 78, against - 3, refraining from - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U52	Deadline for submission of proposals - 25 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U53	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year. On the agenda - draft law on the disposal of real estate for public needs - installation of the border band between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U54	Colleagues! Seeing this bill at the Saeima Legal Commission, we asked you to take part in the committee meeting anyway (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) owners of three properties indicated here, as well as creditors, including secured. Stakeholders came to the committee meeting, but there were also owners who did not respond or came to the committee meeting. We found that there was no possible agreement between the owners and the project promoter - the Ministry of the Interior. We also found the need to have a border band. This requires these specific land. For real estate “Old road”. In this case, we found that according to the materials in the file, the owner disagrees with the fixed remuneration. But, as I said, the commission does not assess the amount of the remuneration. For the real estate “Border” has a number of creditors who are not in fact... the owner has not responded to requests from the Commission or the Ministry of the Interior to take part in this process. For real estate “Mazesmajas”. We found that there have been complaints from the owner of real estate, but at the meeting of the committee there was information that there were no real gaps in nature. In this case, there was a dispute as to whether the Ministry of the Interior, in particular, the State Border Guard, when preparing this border band of the State, had already illegally receded trees in the particular real estate. The Commission heard all interested parties and decided to support the draft law at first reading. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the disposal of real estate for public needs - installation of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U56	Deadline for submission of proposals - 25 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U57	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U58	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 4 September of this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police” (No 1269/Lp12) for the second reading. Four proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1 is the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U60	2. is the proposal of the member of the Saeima, Mr Ruck, who was supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U61	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U62	Good morning, colleagues! This proposal by Member Jānis Ruks provides that local police officers are obliged to wear uniform uniform uniform uniforms approved by the Minister of the Interior throughout Latvia. What is the story about? Such a norm has existed until now - for 28 years. And during these 28 years no municipality has managed to get the forms approved by the Minister of the Interior, because no one has ever wanted to do this at the Ministry of the Interior. I will say more: now the Ministry of the Interior approves its new forms and it has been a year and a half since the Ministry of the Interior cannot coordinate these forms between its four departments. The question is, why do we want to revive such a long-deathed norm that has not worked for 28 years? It is not about the need for any common distinguishing signs. But currently there are 2128 municipal police officers in Latvia. If this rule had begun to work at the time it was adopted, then everything would be okay. Everything would have been fine, and all the police would have been working on it. But now say 60... eight cities and 64 regions of the Republic: “You’ve missed everything there, and now we’re making new forms!” - well, it's quite irresponsible, and I just want to hope that the proposer is not known to some copier. In the Commission, we supported this norm, but we hope that the State Police and the Latvian Municipal Union, on whose shoulders all this event will be financially lying, will find a common denominator, and maybe this norm will not require such high costs, and will be able to agree on some same stamps or distinguishing signs, without making 2000 policemen send everything that they currently have. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U63	Name to Member John Ruck.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U64	The essence of my proposal is as follows: If we exclude this rule from the law, then there is a situation where the local police can carry out their duties without any uniform. And the substance of the proposal is as follows: there is no need to reshape all the forms, as my colleague, Mr Sergeant, has said. We have 119 municipalities and, in my opinion, if each municipality chooses to include some peacock or peacock feathers in the forms of the police officer of the municipality, and that will be legitimate, then it is likely that when we reach another municipality, we will not recognise this officer. And in this case, I believe that the Minister for the Interior is a sufficiently responsible person, able to systematise this case - all that would apply to the arrangement of surnames, the colour of the form, the inscriptions "The Municipal Police" and the distinguishing marks... Wherever we are in Latvia, however, these officials could be recognized and respected. It was just a song festival, and we know that the local police accompanied their choirs and guarded the schools where these choirs and dancers lived. This means that the police of the municipality did their duties not only in the territory of their municipality. And that confirms once again that this form should be recognised and the same and certainly should be different from the interior... from the form of the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U65	Name to Member Carl Sergeant, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U66	I will repeat: I am not against the fact that the police officers of the municipality have to be recognised, and I am not against the fact that some kind of consensus is, of course, needed among them. But! There is still work to be done on this proposal, so that it is not only in the hands of the Minister of the Interior. We cannot know who the Minister of the Interior will come up with. Because there may be a situation where this provision of the law is interpreted in such a way that municipalities, for example, create a model of this form of clothing, go to the Minister of the Interior, confirm, okay, but may be the other way round. It may be that the Minister of Interior is drawing this form and telling you: now from tomorrow or next week, all 2000 local police officers must be dressed as follows. And so we support this norm now, but let them communicate with one another - the Latvian Municipal Union and the Ministry of the Interior - and perhaps come to some more logical result.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U67	I closed the debate. Will the committee's position be explained by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U68	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - MEP John Ruck's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U70	3. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U72	4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky, who has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U74	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U76	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 26 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U77	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U78	Hello, high Saeima! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security” (No 1263/Lp12) at second reading at its meeting on 4 September this year. 16 proposals were submitted to the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. Partly supported and included 2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U79	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U80	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U82	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U84	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U86	5. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U88	6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U90	7. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U92	8 / 8 - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U94	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U96	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U98	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U100	12. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U102	13. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U104	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U106	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U108	And finally 16. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U110	We have therefore examined all the proposals. And I call on you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U111	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U112	The deadline for the third reading is one week - 20 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U113	20?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U114	September 20th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U115	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U116	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” (No 1261/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined one proposal for second reading received from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. And the Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U118	We have therefore examined the only proposal. On behalf of the Commission, I call on my fellow Members to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U119	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U120	Thank you for your support. Let us wait until 27 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U121	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U122	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety” (No 1288/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft law before the second reading and received one proposal. It was received from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars, and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U124	We have therefore examined the only proposal and, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U125	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U126	Thank you, colleagues. For this draft law, let us wait until 18 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U127	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “On UNIDROIT Convention of 24 June 1995 on stolen or illegally exported cultural objects”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U128	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document No 4963. The purpose of this draft law is to protect cultural objects with a view to preventing and combating the illicit trade in cultural objects. Latvia currently lacks international regulation regarding the export of cultural objects and the return of unlawfully removed cultural objects. This Convention provides protection not only for the cultural values of Latvia, but also obliges to recognise and respect the culture and values of other countries. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law and supported it for the first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U129	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the UNIDROIT Convention on theft or unlawfully exported cultural objects of 24 June 1995! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U130	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 21 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U131	September 29, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U132	21 September
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U133	21 September Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the Unesco Convention of 14 November 1970 on the Prohibition and Prevention of the Illicit Importance of Cultural Objects, Exports and Transfer of Ownership”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U134	We work with document 4964. This draft law also concerns the preservation of cultural objects. This Convention is a multilateral international treaty providing for the monitoring of the movement of illicit cultural property by providing a legal framework for the protection of cultural property and the recovery of cultural property unlawfully exported. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law and supported it for the first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U135	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On Prohibition and Prevention of Illicit Importing, Exporting and Transfer of Cultural Objects of 14 November 1970”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U136	21 September
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U137	Thank you. Proposals are due by 21 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Riga Latvian Society House Law”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U138	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Education, Culture and Science Commission has examined the draft law “Riga Latvian Society House Law” at second reading. Two proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U140	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U142	Both proposals are therefore examined. I call for this draft law to be supported at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U143	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Riga Latvian Society House Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U144	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 18 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U145	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 18 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the amendment of the Constitution of the Latvian Maritime Academy”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U146	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has received draft law “On Amendment to the Satversme of the Latvian Maritime Academy” supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. Pure technical correction - change of address. The Commission is asking for urgency to be established for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U147	Thank you. We must therefore vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the amendment of the Constitution of the Latvian Maritime Academy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U148	On behalf of the Commission, please approve at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U149	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Constitution of the Latvian Maritime Academy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U150	And, colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, I am calling for this draft law to be approved at second reading, even without consideration at the committee's meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U151	Do Members have objections to the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Constitution of the Latvian Maritime Academy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U153	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U154	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection” (No 1322/Lp12). The aim of the draft law is to compensate for the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on environmental liability, the prevention of environmental damage... taking over in the Law on Environmental Protection. In particular, the definition of the term ‘damage to waters’ is clarified by extending this term to maritime waters beyond inland waters. The law also establishes that as a distinguishing sign, an environmental inspector will have a service card, at the same time giving up the attributes such as a token and a uniform... as well as other related amendments. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy supported this draft legislation at first reading. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Colleagues, I call on you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U155	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U156	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U157	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 18 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U158	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared amendments to the Packaging Law for the first reading. The draft law aims to reduce the consumption of plastic carrier bags as well as to take over the provisions of the directive. As of 1 January 2019, plastic carrier bags will not be offered free of charge to consumers (with the exception of very light plastic bags - around 15 microns), and from 1 January 2025, packers will be obliged to replace lightweight plastic carrier bags (with the exception of very light plastic carrier bags) with packaging from natural fibres and bioplastic raw materials, as well as to inform consumers about the need to reduce the consumption of plastic carrier bags and alternative types of packaging. The draft law is prepared and agreed with the Latvian Association of Food Traders, the Latvian Municipalities Union and the Latvian Employers' Confederation. Colleagues, first reading support request.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U159	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Packaging". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U160	Let us wait until 20 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U161	By September 20, Roman?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U162	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U163	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 September this year. Dear colleagues, Members Rasmanis, Kozlovska, Kalnozols, Izstrauta, Klžas and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision on the withdrawal of Artis Rasmanis from the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima Member. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Rasmanis, Kozlovska, Kalnozols, Izstrauta, Kluz and others are asking that the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Artis Rasmanis to the Committee on National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy” be put on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Rasmanis, Kozlovska, Kalnozols, Izstrauta, Klžads, Sergeants and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the election of Arvidas Ulme, a Member of the Saeima, to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Rasmanis, Kozlovska, Kalnozols, Izstrauta, Kluz and others ask that the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Arvidas Ulme to the European Affairs Commission be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law”... apologies, a draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act". On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U164	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” (No 1311/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these draft laws at first reading. The essence of the draft law is that on 1 January 2018 amendments to the Waste Management Law entered into force, which provide that the waste manager shall submit to the State Environment Service a financial security for obtaining an authorisation. However, when drafting the rules of the Cabinet of Ministers on the procedure for calculating the amount of this provision, it was found that the delegation included is too narrow and does not cover everything necessary to include them. Consequently, the draft law aims at clarifying the delegation accordingly so that this financial collateral system can be effectively... make it effective. On behalf of the Commission, my fellow Members, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U165	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U166	Thank you. Let us wait until 18 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U167	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 September this year. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, Our colleagues, Andrejs Clementyevs and Anrijs Matīss, have celebrated and celebrate the half-round anniversary, and we welcome them. (Applause) Name for the statement to Member Silvia Symph... Name for the statement to Member Silvia Symph. Mrs. Schiff! Name for the statement to Member Aldim Adamovich...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U168	Colleagues! The meeting of the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima will take place half an hour after the meeting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U169	Name for the statement to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U170	Colleagues! The meeting of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science after five minutes in the Commission’s premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U171	Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunārs Kūtris - to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U172	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Jānis Adamsons... is, Aleksandrs Jakilovs, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Ainārs Mežulis, Andris Morozovs, Arvīds Platopers, Sergejs Potapkins, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U173	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U174	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break! On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U175	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law Amending the Railway Law (No1318/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft laws for the first reading. The main purpose and nature of the draft law is as follows: The amount of funding for the functions of the State Railway Administration, the State Railway Technical Inspection and the Office for the Investigation of Transport Accidents and Incidents shall be determined as a proportion of the financing involved in the sector. The historical railways are also financed by the rail sector. And all this regulation is in force until 2018, but from 2019 other – alternative – sources have to be searched for. The Cabinet evaluated this situation and intends to extend the funding model for all these institutions until 2019, 2020 and 2021, as well as to maintain this historical heritage in the railway financing system until 1 April 2021. In the Commission, this draft law received support for the first reading. Colleagues, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U176	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no quorum in the Chamber at this time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Latkovsky: “There is no quorum, but the cards were not inserted!” ) Please call us! Please register the Members! Please the result! 63 members registered. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U177	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U178	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 18 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U179	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring”. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined this draft law. The draft law is designed to allow food labelled with ‘Recommended by’ to continue to be used after this deadline. It is therefore necessary to delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers in order to prepare the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. We could thus help many organisations distributing food. We could also reduce the impact on the environment because it would not be wasteful to throw out food that is still valid. The ‘recommended’ label is most often used on pasta, quail and products that are still valid after the deadline by which they are recommended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy calls for this draft law to be drawn up and approved at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U180	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Monitoring the Food Chain". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U181	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 21 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U182	Thank you. Proposals are due by 21 September of this year. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. The draft decision on the communication of the Ukrainian citizen director Oleg Sencova. Will anyone speak on behalf of the applicants? Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U183	The Ukrainian citizen Oleg Sencov has for more than 120 days declared a hunger strike while in custody in Russia. His health has deteriorated dramatically, and he has sent a letter to his family in these days saying that he no longer intends to return to Kiev. No longer is willing to return to his own, for his health is likely to have deteriorated irreversibly. In this situation, it is not only the case of one Oleg Sencov, but the infringement of international law in general. Russia illegally occupied Crimea in 2014. It illegally arrested Ukrainian citizens, and they are still illegally held in custody. It is trying to impose on them Russian citizenship in order to make this process more legitimate. And in these circumstances, when we call on the Saeima to condemn and release all illegally arrested Ukrainian citizens, we see terrible Latvian parliamentary practices as foreign policy makers from one political group can torpede the work of the Saeima. At the last meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, in general, the silent Member Rubik agreed that he objected to the examination of such a statement. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Rubiks: “Yes!” ) Rubik, whose name... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Rubiks: “Who Rubiks? Clarifying it, please! We are two in the Saeima!” ) In this situation, we see an even more absurd picture. At the time when we in the Saeima are examining the call for Russia to release illegally detained Ukrainian citizens, other Latvian foreign policy makers working in the Foreign Affairs Commission - Sergej Potapkin and the representative of Latvia at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Boris Cilevičs - are travelling to Moscow and working with the Russian Foreign Intelligence Officer Dmitri Jermolajev. Doesn't that seem absurd to you? Stops accepting the notification at the Saeima... At the same time, such initiatives are taking place! And I'm especially impressed by that by Boris Cilevič. While working at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, he always said a few words to the defence of human rights. Of course, to some extent. Of course, if it is beneficial. I call on the Saeima to adopt this draft decision today and I really hope that our great neighbour will be able to respect international law some day and release the people who have been illegally detained, to remove his troops from the illegally occupied territories in order to restore the order that existed before Putin came to power.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U184	Name to Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U185	Welcome again. I support this announcement by the Saeima today and supported it also on 30 August, when the Foreign Affairs Commission for the first time made public its support for this statement. Let us remember that the hunger of Oleg Sencov, as we have just mentioned, has been going on for more than 100 days! Since his health was critical, our priority was to agree with others in Europe immediately and to express our support in the Sencova case in good time. We did this already in August on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and its message was expressed in the international press. But this statement by the Foreign Affairs Commission in August... This does not rule out the possibility to reaffirm Latvia’s view in the Sencova case. Double doesn't break! In this case, it strengthens and expands the opinion of the Saeima. I call on the Saeima to agree with the Foreign Affairs Commission and with all others who have condemned Russia's actions in the Sencova case. I call for this statement to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U186	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U187	Highly honored Saeima! In addition to what my fellow Members have said, I would like to remind you... take the opportunity to remind here of another thing that, unfortunately, has remained unexposed in the media in the West, including Latvia. That is, today's 123rd, since Oleg Sencov starved. The illegal detention and holding of him in a strict regime colony... Oļegs has reminded several times that he is doing so not only for himself but also for the sake of the release of the other 70 Ukrainian political prisoners, whom I want to name now: Teimer Abdullahajev, Uzier Abdullahajev, Talayath Abdurahmanov, Rustem Abiltarov, Zevri Absatikov, Mustim Alijev, Refatt Alimov, Kazim Ametov, Ernes Ametov, Ali Asanov, Marlen Asanov, Volodimir Baluh, Envirs Bekirov, Memets Beļalov, Oleksij Bessarubov, Rustav, Valentins Vihivski, Pavlo Hrib, Mikal Dadaj, Bekirs Degermenji, Musta Degermenji, Emils Jemadenov, Oleksi Besarov, Rustav, Valentins Vihivski, Paodk, Padloduk, Obezhim, Judziezhezhevi, Zudziezhezhezhezhevi, Obzhezhevi, Juddezhjiid, Juddevyvyvyvych, Juddi, Juchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchch, Juchchchchchchch, Juchchchchchchchchchchchchchchch, Juchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchch, Juchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchch, Juchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchchch R.Balodis: “What does he read there?” ), Seiran Sallyyev, Envers Seitosmanov, Oleksy Sizonovich, Vadim Siruk, Oleksy Stohnij, Renat Suleimanov, Edem Smilov, Oleksandr Sashenko, Roman Sushchenko, Roman Ternowski, Ruslan Trubach, Asan Chapuch, Oleksy Čirney, Hlib Shabley, Mikola Šiptur, Dmitri Stiblikov, Oleksandr Sumkov and Viktor Shur. Seventy people are still illegal in Russian prisons just because they were loyal to Ukraine. Let us not forget them! I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U188	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U189	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, someone can say that for us in Latvia, which is a NATO country, which is a country of the European Union, it is easy to talk about what is happening in Russia. We just had a break. I assume many of you had a little meal... and it is also easy for you to talk about what is happening elsewhere... But Oleg Sencov, as has already been mentioned, has lodged a hunger strike for more than 120 days. A group of Members has been formed in the Saeima to support Russian civil society, and before the Ligo festival in cooperation with the Ukrainian Embassy in the Saeima there was an opportunity to watch a documentary film about Oleg Sencov. It was twice possible. Thank you to those who came and watched. Already then, with some of my colleagues, we said that there would probably be a need for a greater announcement by the Saeima in support of Oļega. We didn't get it at that time. I would therefore really like to say thank you to Richard Kole, who I understand was one of the most active drivers of this draft decision. I've been in the Saeima for seven years, and I've been talking a lot - I'm probably not going to tell you any more than a young man, you know me well. Therefore, I will not comment on so many events taking place in Russia itself. I want to read to you what Oļeg Sencov himself said at the time when the court sentenced him to 20 years, which was already warned of by those torturers who called him to confess to all the great crimes. By the way, those big crimes are such that the Russian respective specs saphrified the case that he was one of the main planners to target, let's say, terrorists against Lenin's monument. And he was sentenced to this for 20 years! It should be noted, among other things, that at a court hearing where the whole proceedings were based on two testimony, one of the witnesses at the hearing admitted that he had given evidence as a result of torture... the 20 years were passed. So, what does Oleg Sencov say? ‘ I don't ask for any grace. Everything is understandable here: the court of the occupying country cannot be fair in nature. No personal, honorable judge! I wanted to say something else. There is a character, Pontius Pilate, who has sat down on the moon for many years when considering his actions, and when he received mercy, he admitted that the greatest sin is cowardice. It was written by the excellent Russian writer Bulgakov in his book Master and Margarita, and I agree with him. Compassion is the most terrible sin on earth. Tradition is the secular form of cowardice. A great betrayal often begins from such a small cowardice. As with Čirnie: Put the bag on your head, it's a little tipped in, and after half an hour you're ready to deny all your values and beliefs by defaming others, you're ready to admit anything to stop bleeding. I know what your conviction is worth... I don't know what your conviction is worth if you're not ready to suffer or even die on its behalf. I am very happy that Genadius Afanasjevs was able to harm himself, he took advantage of the opportunity, he was able to admit his error and to say that he gave evidence in the past as a result of pressure and torture. I'm glad about him. Not so much that he has now admitted - and that is a sensation! - or that someone will still justify me. Of course not! I'm glad about him. He will be able to live further and feel like a person who was not afraid. You can frighten people, you can beat them, but he made the right choice - he took a step in the direction from which there is no return. I'm so happy about him. I've been in your wonderful country for a year, watching your television. ‘ Westji, Vremja, these are good broadcasts. Your propaganda works great. Really! I am convinced that most of the Russians believe in what they are told: Putin is the greatest malacis, that there are fascists in Ukraine, that Russia is doing everything right and that only enemies around. Really good propaganda! However, we are all well aware that there are also wise people, as you, the respected judge, who very well understand that there are no fascists in Ukraine, that the Crimea has been collected illegally, that the Russian troops are in Donbas. Even here, in your Russian prison, I know that, because here too, too, are surrounded by fighters from eastern Ukraine, who were sent there as heroes to tanks and with weapons. They're war there, they think we're coming back here. But they don't have a return. It's a train in one direction. Here in prison, I know that. I met a soldier who entered Sevastopol with a ship and bowed down like the parts of Ukrainian soldiers I tried to help. How an interesting fate has turned, has it not it? There's a lot of facts and they're blowing up on the top. If you don't close your eyes, you see it. All these troubadours of your regime - journalists, they are also not stupid, they understand very well what is in fact, but they continue to lie, they continue to do their job with all the excuses - children must be fed, the family must be kept. Why bring up a new generation of servants? And there is another third part of the Russian people who understand well what is happening, who do not believe in propaganda, who understand what is happening in the world, what crimes are committed by your leadership. But these people don't fear for some reason. They think nothing can be changed, that everything will remain the same, that the system doesn't break that you're the one that we... That we're not enough to get all in prison... And they all keep silent like mice. We also had criminal power in Ukraine, but we went against it. I didn't want to hear you hit the garbage boxes. We didn't want to see us, we burned tires. After all, we won. The same will happen to you in Russia early or late. I don't know how. Of course I don't want to be... I want you not to be ruled by criminals, no matter how hard anyone suffers. I want the third part of society to have the power to learn not to be afraid." End of quote. As the speakers said earlier, Oleg Sencov... more than 120 days have passed since he declared himself hungry, and his health has been irreversibly damaged. But he continues this hunger, not in his own name, but in order to draw the attention of the world, also the attention of Latvia, also those other political prisoners, whose names and surnames He already read. I am aware that we cannot change the situation with this decision at the moment, but I think it is our duty to vote in favour of this draft decision. My grandfather was also sent to Siberia, and for 10 years he was sentenced to be a criminal of the people. And probably this vote is such a little proof that we are not cowardly and that we are able to stand for justice both in Latvia and outside. I call for the vote in favour. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U190	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U191	Hello, brothers and sisters! Once again, with my intrusive intruder - and what will the state gain, and what will the citizens gain? The representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could not clearly tell me what we will get from it. During the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, one of the members of the National Alliance gave such a very unsuccessful example that we, the Saeima, have already supported Nadzhd Savchenko. It's exactly the same statement... I have a request, Members. There's always the truth somewhere in the middle, both on that side and on this side. And I wouldn't really want to... that it does not come back like the statement relating to Nadezd Savchenko. That we defended Nadzhda Savchenko, but at the end of the day, the Ukrainians put him in prison. I think it's so smooth from the side. In my opinion, in this situation, we do not really know what is happening there. We just know what someone has said... It is desirable to take advantage of what the French President Mitteran said to our dear President, Vaira Vike-Freiberga, - the opportunity to obey. And why? I want to ask this law... one case for the preparers of this decision. A couple of days ago I played a game with countrymen abroad - “Speak words in Latvian!” . Don't you embarrass yourself that Latvians abroad have to play games to be... “Know Latvian Words!” to have any connection with Latvia! Why are these Latvians less important to you than any Ukrainian?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're not embarrassed?Oh, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U192	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U193	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We really have a moral duty to stand up for political prisoners in the Russian Federation, to defend oppressed civil society in the Russian Federation, who is being accused and called... working in some foreign interests... who are accused and described as foreign agents whose activists are punished for expressing their political views. Dear colleagues, We have a duty to look at what is happening in the Russian Federation. But we also have a duty to look at those cases where the practices of repression of civil society in the Russian Federation rob us ourselves. Therefore, colleagues, it is particularly shocking to see that today, when we are talking about Oleg Sencov, Saeima Member Jūlija Stepanenko and her other supporters - Mrs Silver, Mr Maya and so on - have submitted to the Saeima a draft law aimed at punishing and persecuting our non-governmental organisation about the courage to prick to the Saeima, about the courage to draw attention to the Saeima (Dep. R.Balodis: “On the topic!” ) the impact of the moral changes adopted by the Saeima on the health of our young people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balodis: “Speak about Oleg!” ) Dear colleagues! I listened carefully to Julia Stepanenko's speech on this request. She speaks of the words used in the Russian Federation against civil society. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūris: “On the topic!” ) She doubts it...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U194	Mrs. Chigan, please speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U195	... that our organisations have the right to receive funding for their political activities from organisations from other countries. Dear colleagues, By fighting for the release of political prisoners in the Russian Federation so as not to abuse the political opposition and civil society there, we must stand up for this practice not to steal ourselves. I therefore very much hope that the Request Commission will strongly reject Julia Stepanenko's attempt to bring this Russian practice to us. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U196	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U197	Colleagues! Thank you, Presidium. This is where one Member said "some Ukrainian". Why help him? I want to remind you... There's that Member sitting there... I would like to remind you that Latvia was also occupied once, that we also became citizens of the USSR one day and that we also had such people as Oleg Sencov. When I was in exile in Sweden, I received a telephone call asking the Swedish authorities to help Gunara Astra, who was at the hospital at that time in Leningrad. Do you think that it was easy for me to call responsible persons in very high positions? I could already say, "It's too hard." The Swedes could also answer me, “What benefit do we gain from it?” You know, I called. Well, he swung there like that, but he said: “OK. We will help this person.” And helped! The consulate in Leningrad, the Swedish consulate in Leningrad, offered Gunārs Astras medical assistance (unfortunately, too late). Sweden helped, although it did not seem to benefit Sweden! Well, just like our question about Oleg... A hero! Think of starvation over 100 days! And he's not a Ukrainian citizen anymore, but who? Turns out, a Russian citizen. This is a vote of conscience. We used to be in such a situation. We had our heroes who we supported. Let us also support Ukrainians! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U198	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “For judges!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U199	Again. You too, Artus. Why do you, Artus, have indifferent Latvians living abroad? Why don't you personally do anything to get them back? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U200	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “Communication about the Ukrainian citizen director Oleg Sencova”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals” for the second reading of the draft law “Law on State Material Reserves” (No 1248/Lp12) until 27 September 2018. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Law on State Material Reserves” (No. 1248/Lp12) until 27 September 2018”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. Draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 142 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Autopaying overpaid taxes””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U201	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On 13 April this year, 2018 the Saeima received a collective application from 10 142 Latvian citizens “Auto-Payment of overpaid taxes”. On 2 May of this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima listened to the authorised representative of the applicants, who indicated that it should be possible to receive overpaid taxes also for those citizens who do not understand the complicated system of filling documents, do not use Internet banks and have not received the highest legal or economist education, yet work and pay taxes. According to the applicants, the State Revenue Service should request information on eligible expenditure from medical and educational institutions. Representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of State Revenue, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Association of Healthcare Employers, the Riga Centre for Methodical Education of Interest, the Latvian Employers' Confederation, the Latvian Association of Insurers, as well as representatives from the Latvian Municipal Union took part in the meetings of the Commission. The State Revenue Service recognised that the idea should be supported in the long term, and pointed out problems such as the lack of information on the calculation of personal income tax overpayment and lack of information on eligible expenditure on the use of medical and educational services. Representatives emphasize that already there are negotiations with representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Health, so that information about income and eligible expenses for which citizens are entitled to repayment of personal income tax should be available to the State Revenue Service. During the meeting of the Health Employers’ Association, representatives of the Commission indicated that the development of e-health should also include financial aspects related to medical expenditure, including eligible expenditure. Representatives believe that this would reduce the administrative burden both for medical institutions, patients and the State Revenue Service. The Ministry of Education and Science admits that the systems at their disposal could be adapted to the needs of the State Revenue Service system and only it is necessary to find a way to combine them. While commenting on the transition to the submission of the annual income statement in the e-environment, the Ministry of Finance also explained that this is the future solution to the case if the State Revenue Service had access to all information – including on eligible expenditure – in order to carry out an automatic overpaid tax payment. In general terms, the views of all the invited representatives reflected the conviction that such automatic refund could be implemented in practice and that it was only necessary to find a technical solution for harmonising these systems. Having heard all the requests of the applicants and having taken note of the application received, the Commission unanimously decided at its meeting on 24 July of this year: to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare regulatory enactments by 1 January 2021, as well as to find a possible technical solution for aligning the information systems of institutions in the state administration, so that the State Revenue Service could automatically reimburse overpaid taxes. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision, in which it is planned to submit a collective application to the Cabinet of Ministers “Automatic Payment of overpaid Taxes” of 10 142 Latvian citizens; to instruct it to develop regulatory acts by 1 January 2021, as well as to find a possible technical solution for aligning the information systems of institutions in the state administration, so that the State Revenue Service can automatically reimburse overpaid taxes. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U202	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On further progress of the 10 142 Latvian citizens’ collective application for overpaid taxes”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Members submitted amendments to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Baziķis, Nadiņš, Balodis, Cilinskis, Dombrava, Krēsliņš and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member Andris Buikis from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Buikis, Nadiņš, Balodis, Cilinskis, Dombrava, Krēsliņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of Member Andris Buikis to the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Kursīte-Pakule, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Lejiņš, Būķis, Šnore, Dzintars, Kaimiņš, Viļums, Stepanenko, Kozlovska and Skujiņš are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amenestia law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Not yet distributed... No material yet issued in the sitting? Not issued. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal then on this issue... Have I been extradited? And? Who has not been given the material? Amnesty's law... So Members still need time to decide on this. Okay. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On Revocation of Members” of 10 078 Latvian citizens”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U203	Colleagues! On 17 May this year, the Saeima received 10 078 collective application “On Revocation of Members”. On June 6, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima listened to the applicant, who called for the opportunity to give the public the opportunity to influence public and political processes in the country, and to withdraw Members for anti-constitutional activities as well. The application for an initiative emphasises that such an opportunity is important in cases where Members break an oath, fail to honour promises, pursue counter-state action or bring criminal proceedings against them and continue to undermine the prestige of public administration through their actions. Having assessed the collective application, the Commission concluded that in 2012 a substantially similar collective application – “Taking over the oath of a member of the Saeima” – was considered, which was submitted to the Ministry of Justice in order to prepare, draft and submit the draft law of the Saeima. In the following this issue, as well as amendments to the law submitted by the Ministry of Justice, were reviewed by the Legal Commission and decided on amendments to the Saeima order roll. In particular, more severe penalties were provided for for violations of the Code of Ethics for Members of the Saeima. As an example, I can mention the amendments to the seventh part of Article 179 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which, today, provide for the following reasoned decisions on the violation of the Code of Conduct of Members of the Saeima: to prevent a Member from speaking to the Saeima, to exclude a Member for one to six sittings of the Saeima. It is understandable that the withdrawal of Members also directly affects the electoral system. In particular, if there is a small-scale system, Members can be withdrawn on the same principle. If the withdrawal of Members takes place in the current electoral system, a different solution should be considered. Having assessed all the information received, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application decided to prepare the draft decision of the Saeima and to submit this application to the Legal Commission. In its 5th meeting of September, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications unanimously decided to submit 10 078 collective application “On withdrawal of Members” to the Legal Commission for further assessment. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U204	Please call me! We will vote on the future direction of the draft decision “On 10 078 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On Revocation of Members””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Artis Rasmanis from the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Artis Rasmanis from the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Artis Rasmanis to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Artis Rasmanis to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Arvīds Ulme to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Arvidas Ulme, a Member of the Saeima, to the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. And the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Arvīds Ulme to the European Affairs Commission. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Arvidas Ulme, Member of the Saeima, to the European Commission for European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. And we have to decide on the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Kursīte-Pakule, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Lejiņš, Būķis, Šnore, Dzintars, Kaimiņš, Viļums, Stepanenko, Kozlovska and Skujiņš are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amenestia law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? And the objections. And the objections? Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the bill “The Amnesty Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 5, for - 28. Decision adopted. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of the Member Andra Buikis from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Member Andris Buiķis from the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of a Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Andris Buikis! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “The Amnesty Law” submitted by the Member Janina Kursītes-Pakules, Ilmāra Latkovska, Ata Leieniņa, Andra Buiķis, Edvina Šnores, Raivja Dzintars and other Members be referred to the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to the referral of the draft law to the Commission? Will you talk about it or about it? So the Member will speak against Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U205	I very much want to hope that colleagues understand what amnesty is and what they want to lead. But I think... I want to hope, but I admit that this is not all clear. Those who were in the Communist Party or other similar organisations may still remember that there was a tradition in Soviet times: when the USSR was the next anniversary, an amnesty was made, and then people sitting in prison were released... Well, that was a tradition. It was in Soviet times. But in civilized countries, amnesty is refused, not used. Why? Because the amnesty does not allow the purpose for which it is applied to be achieved. There is another instrument that exists in civilised countries: pardon. If the person who committed the offence has been convicted, the individual case shall give a decision and release him from execution of the sentence. It's normal, it's right. But when they make amnesty, they do not reach their goal. For example, there was a study in Poland in which the law was analysed and adopted that there should be no amnesty that it was wrong. But, in principle, it's good... it is too clever perhaps, too academically. However, I ask you to note that the people who took part in these events have already passed the penalty, they have already responded. And the bill that you want to guide is directed for one person, who was also punished - conditionally; in other words, he remained on his feet. But he didn't follow orders, he's offended them, and that's why he's in prison, because of his irresponsibility. But I understand that elections are coming, time is coming for populism. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Oi, Oi, Oi!” ) I wish you good luck! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U206	Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U207	I understand that lawyers in this situation can make anything perfectly accurate, and we forget about the fate of people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “Here is the Saeima!” ) We are ready to escalate cruelty in society by ultimately throwing away what is mercy. Anything we can put up for election in the atmosphere and in the other... We remember that in 2009 Latvia came to a huge... economic, social and... in general, in a global crisis, which peaked on 13 January. I think one part of you, like me, were on this headquarters, which was sanctioned. At the meeting there was a slogan – both “Discard the Saeima!” And both “Forgive the Government!” And the more sharp it is. After the accommodation, mass disorder began. Ten of the people who participated in them were sentenced. Legally, of course, they are guilty, and most of them, as has already been said, have endured their punishment. Why do I think of the aspect of mercy? ( It must be time to talk to us about the aspect of mercy when we stick to the letters of the law.) For all those who then cast bricks into the windows of the Saeima and elsewhere were mostly young people. They reacted proactively to the critical situation in the country. We know that in a few years, the Saeima was fired. The Real Incinerators, the Real Reigns of the Situation (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “Watch! Stokenberg!” ) was then left in the shadow and still in the shadow. Young people are those who have endured punishment and who are over whom this shadow continues to fall. Is it not time to amnesty those who participated in mass troubles, but actually became victims of the situation, hostages? They are needed for Latvia, for positive work. The dark shadows of the past can be extinguished if we have left even a crippling of what is called mercy to others, to fellow humans... against young people. Please support me. ( Interface: ‘ All right! ’) . Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U208	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Dear colleagues, We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “The Amnesty Law” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, as well as to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 7, for - 25. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U209	Honorary Members of the Legal Commission! Meeting of the Legal Commission after five minutes at the premises of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U210	Name to Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U211	Dear colleagues, At the moment not registered: Aleksandrs Jakirovs, Nellija Kleinberga, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Ainārs Mežulis, Andris Morozovs, Arvīds Platopers, Sergejs Potapkins, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Viktors Valainis and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-13-PT12-492-U212	Thank you. I have also informed you that replies to Members' questions are scheduled today at 5 p.m. Member of the Minister for Economic Affairs of Zarina, Morozova, Potapkin, Raimonds Rubika and Orlovs “On your actions and public statements regarding the assessment of the Ministry of Economics’ actions in the implementation of the granting of subsidised electricity permits”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. Members of the oral committee do not want to ask questions. On the question of Member Zarina, Morozova, Potapakina, Raimonds Rubika and Orlovs about the report by the Minister of Economics, set up by order No.172 of 24 April 2018 of the Cabinet of Ministers and managed by the Ministry of Economics on “working group on the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity procurement”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. You do not want to ask further oral questions. The question to the Minister of Health Anda Čakša “On adequate operational security of the national health insurance system” by Members Zarina, Tretjaka, Niconova, Zuvėv and Zemļinska. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. Member of the Parliament Zarina, Tretjaka, Niconova, Zuvėv and Jakimova's question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis about the avoidance of replying to questions related to the report of the "OIC Working Group". The question was referred to Arvil Asheraden, Member of the Prime Minister. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Thank you. So I closed the sitting.
