ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take office in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 6 December 2018. Dear colleagues, Before we start the sitting, I call for a minute's silence to commemorate the memory of Latvian patriot Valentīne Lasmane. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and includes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Prime Minister asks for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and the inclusion in it of the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on the Electricity Market to be put on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And Members Dombrovskis, Švecova, Lochmele-Lunova, Goldberg, Kucin, Agešins and Zarins are asking for the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020 to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ Against” Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U2	Good morning, colleagues! I call for this draft law not to be put on the agenda for a number of reasons. The nature of the draft law is intended to amend or improve macroeconomic forecasts with the idea of obtaining an additional fiscal space next year, but there are several things you need to know before you make a decision. First. Stability and Growth Pact Regulation... setup... the regulation provides that none of the Member States, including Latvia... We have an agreement on this... The Parliament or the government cannot create and adopt new macroeconomic forecasts on a voluntary basis and base them on a budgetary plan. These forecasts must be approved by an independent institution, in the case of Latvia, by the Board of Fiscal Discipline. We are creating new forecasts every year. The Ministry of Finance establishes them, the Ministry of Economics establishes its... We have a coordinated process, and the Board of Fiscal Discipline says a final word. Secondly. It is naive to imagine that amending one indicator could have a positive effect. This is not the case. The Fiscal Discipline Act provides that the medium-term budgetary framework law should also change others by amending one of the macro-economic or fiscal indicators. And in this case, even if it changed the macroeconomic forecast, then because of a number of circumstances... For example, the deflator used by the European Commission when assessing our budget also releases the difference... where this would change the 10-year average potential growth - the figures would change. The condition for an increase in expenditure should in any case be taken into account. All these considerations would actually lead us to have no new additional fiscal space, changing one of these elements. This is a self-esteem if we think that by changing one digit, we can get extra money to spend. So I call on you not to support this bill in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U3	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U4	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, I will not tell you about the deflators and the 10-year average, although I could, of course, do so. But there is an axioma: the higher the forecast for growth of gross domestic product, the higher the projected tax revenues. Of course, the Ministry of Finance... The question of time will also be consistent with its forecasts with the European Commission. Because it is a fact that the European Commission's forecast for next year is 3.2, but the current Ministry of Finance is 3... Of course, the Ministry of Finance will do this after a few months or half a year, and the growth forecast will be 3.2 and the tax revenue forecast will increase by at least EUR 16 million. And then this money will be given for some expenses, thanks to the law that we will adopt today. It will be a mandate of the Minister for Finance or Minister, how to do this in fact without any legislative power. You all know where we have today the most pressing needs, where crisis situations have arisen. The greatest crisis situation is, in my opinion, the result of emergency medical assistance. This issue calls for an immediate solution. The cost of the question is about EUR 8 million, which will allow us to raise the salary for medical emergency doctors by 20 percent from the new year onwards. If we change this medium framework law... and I stress that we are currently talking about the transfer of commissions, where the Ministry of Finance will be able to tell members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission about deflators, the 10-year average, and so on. There we might have a discussion, then we will decide on the first reading. But I am now calling for this path not to be closed for myself, to help the personnel of the Emergency Medical Care Service as each of the parties here has promised to lead the NMPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020 on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting. We begin to examine the agenda of the amended sitting. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Solidarity Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda of the sitting - Proposals for the continuation of the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima. On the agenda - draft law “The Freedom Monument and the Riga Brothers Cemetery Law”. In accordance with Article 39 of the parliamentary roll, the Education, Culture and Science Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law presented at the Saeima “Brīvības monument and Riga Brothers Cemetery Law”. Member Raivis Dzintars is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Law on Freedom Monument and Riga Brothers Cemetery”. As has already been said, according to Article 39 of the Saeima roll of order, we have to decide whether to see the draft law further. 13 In the family. The purpose of the law is to determine the legal status of the Freedom Monument and the Brothers Cemetery, to determine their cultural and historical value by force of the law and to establish the supervisory board for the qualitative preservation of the Freedom Monument and the Riga Brothers Cemetery. The Freedom Monument and Riga Brothers Cemetery are considered symbols of the independence of Latvia, but their status and nationality are not mentioned in the law. The law intends to establish more severe penalties for harmful and respectful actions against the Freedom Monument and the Riga Brethren Cemetery ensemble, as well as to establish the legal belonging to these objects. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, please support the continuation of the examination of the draft law 13. In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law on the Freedom Monument and the Riga Brothers Cemetery Law 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 20, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Education, Culture and Science Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Are there any objections to the fact that that commission should also be set up. 13 Will the Saeima be responsible for this draft law? There is no objection. Thank you. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U8	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U9	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 1 March 2019. On the agenda - draft law “The Law of the Holy Peter”. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Anita Muižniece, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U10	Dear Chairman and fellow Members of the Saeima. At the meeting of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science on 27 November, the draft law “The Law of the Holy Peter” was inherited from the previous parliamentary term. We have jointly supported its examination 13. In the family. Briefly: this draft law is about legal strengthening of property rights to the Holy Peter churches of Riga. In particular, paragraph 3 of the decision of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia of 12 May 1992 on the procedure for entry into force of the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Return of Property to Religious Organisations provides that the Law on Return of Property to Religious Organisations does not apply to cultural monuments of special importance to the State, such as the Holy Peter Church of Riga. Consequently, its status should be determined by a specific law, as in the case of the Dome Church in 2005. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission asks 13. Continue the examination of the draft law “The Law of the Holy Peter” in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U11	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U12	Good morning, honourable Members and honourable Members! Among those who have applied for this debate, I am the only one who has the opportunity to speak against. Therefore, I would like to emphasise that I express the position of all those Rigans - irrespective of their political affection, social status, ethnic origin and age - who want the Holy Peter Church of Riga to belong to the city of Riga, not to the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church or to anyone else. There are two motives for entering the Riga Holy Peter Church in the Landbook, thus determining to a large extent its future fate. First. The decision of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia of 12 May 1992 states that the law “On Return of Property to Religious Organisations” does not apply to cultural monuments of special importance to the State, including the Holy Peter Church of Riga, whose status must be established by a special law. That is why such a law is necessary. But the Riga Holy Peter Church can only be seen as a cultural monument in such a law. And then the main question is - which entity will best ensure the maintenance and preservation of the Holy Peter Church in Riga? The maintenance and restoration of the church is costly, but in the long run it will require increasing funding for restoration works. Even co-financing for the necessary European Union funds will be considerable and can only be provided by the state and local government budgets. Meanwhile, the taking over of the Riga Holy Peter Church by the religious organization has long raised doubts in society, as it looks like an intention to improve its financial balance and not the position of the church. It is not for nothing that this draft law is called “the law of the lift”: it is the church tower’s elevator that provides revenue of about 900 thousand euros a year. Second (and that is the second motive). Who has more moral grounds to apply for his right to the Holy Peter Church in Riga? It was raised from ruins. Its scrupulous restoration took place on the economic resources of the nation and lasted for 14 years. The precious restoration works of the tower have been implemented in metal structures, which ensure special strength of the tower. Over the years of restored independence, more than 700 thousand lats were invested in restoration of Riga City Municipality. Not the LELB and the church did the restoration of the church. Its transfer to this religious organization means a huge waste of money. The opinion of the Riga Government has been expressed several times. In 2004, the chairman of Riga City Council Gundars Bojars wrote in his letter to the Saeima that the Holy Peter Church of Riga should be transferred to the local government and that the municipality of Riga is interested in solving the issue of the church in cooperation with its church. This small congregation has indeed been operating in the church since the end of 1991 without any charge. Every Sunday there are worships that are currently attended by an average of five to eight members of the congregation. An ecumenical environment is being created, and representatives of traditional Christian denominations meet, both Lutherans and Catholics, who hold their church holidays. In autumn 2008, at the request of the Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima, the Riga City Council examined the draft decision, which was intended to support the transfer. However, the draft decision did not constitute aid. I myself took part in the vote, I well remember the events and I assure you that almost all the factions represented in the council did not support the transfer of the church to the religious organization. This decision of Riga City Council is not repealed and remains valid. Is there an opportunity to continue looking at the draft law and to change its purpose? No, it will require radical changes in the structure and basic norms of the draft law in future readings. We need a new bill. But today's draft law calls for no further consideration by voting 'no' or voting 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U13	Name to Member Long Schuplinsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U14	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Of course, we are completely young in the Saeima's work, and I agree with Mr Pimenova that perhaps we do not know any historical falls. But in this case the situation has arisen that this particular property, which is indeed an important cultural monument of the country, could also be applied for by the municipality of Riga, and to some extent, it would also be logical. However, when we look at these documents, we see the situation as it stands. And that is, it is that for years the German Lutheran Church of the Holy Peter Church of Riga has been trying to cooperate with the Riga City Council and has offered its financial support. In their conversation yesterday, they also pointed out that they wanted to encourage the restoration of organs. In this case, they are, in principle, not even allowed to have this financial support position. That's one thing. The other thing. If we are talking specifically about interest, as has been said, on the issue of lift, then really the income from the lift is about one million euros a year, and that is not a small amount. But if you calculate how much you have to put in the restoration, then these are the entie million that you are currently looking for. The question - where does the state of Latvia, the municipality of Riga, intend to take these millions? The organization that has fulfilled all the conditions of the house, i.e. it has been involved in the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church and arranged the legal roof, has concrete proposals. All the more, last year there was also a conversation... Maris Kučinskis and Angela Merkel level, which is probably a very good starting point for negotiations... that there is support for the preservation of this cultural monument located in Latvia. And I think if we've found partners who hear that Latvian cultural monuments, which really matter to us both as land, as nation and as part of Europe... there are these deaf ears, then it is probably important to support this draft law. And I'll say one more thing. When examining these documents, I will certainly not agree with Mr Pimenova that they must be fundamental and very many amendments. The document is rather correct, and the latest proposals made show that work needs to be continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U15	Debate... Not yet closed. Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U16	Colleagues, there's another motive. Symbolic, but quite important, why, however, Riga is the owner of the Holy Peter Church, rather than any other legal entity. It is symbolic, but we know how important symbols are for our society. Medieval times in Riga were the era of the hatred and divination of three powers, and all its powers were agreed with their Church. Riga St. Peter's Church is owned or agreed with Rigaians, with Dome - the Riga Archbishop's Administration, and with the Riga St. Jurs Church - the Order... And Riga, wishing to build its prestige, wanted the church to be bigger than others. The monumental building has been built and gradually transformed not only by the citizens of Riga for centuries. It was in this way that the Holy Peter Church became a symbol of Riga. I would like to remind you once again that it would not be correct to refer to a particular congregation, to a particular church, to an object that all the Rigans consider to be their own, when looking at the historical context as well. I would remind you that only after 1888, when the Riga Court had been dissolved and the church in the landbook had been written in the name of the Church, the owner changed. And so it continued until 1939, when the German congregation repatriated to the West and property rights to the Holy Peter Church of Riga were recorded on the name of the legal entity, which was also called “St. Peter’s Church”. This fact does not change the main factor and the main objective why we are now talking about ownership of this object. It is about who will maintain and manage the church better in the future. It was mentioned here that it was found... the beneficiaries were found, which could co-finance the acquisition of European Union funds. But I would like to remind you that, however, the Riga City Council, which until now was indeed the owner of Riga, can provide co-financing from the state budget. I will remind you that after Riga Dome became the property of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church, the Church has applied for both state and municipal funds to ensure the future maintenance of the Dome. I do not think that this situation will change if the Holy Peter Church of Riga becomes the property of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church. Therefore, I believe that public funds should be primary here and therefore property rights to the church should be entered in the land register in the name of the municipality of Riga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U17	The name for Member Ilga Suplinsk, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U18	And once again, this is a very logical move of thought, especially in the sense that if the Riga City Council had taken care of the Holy Peter Church all this time and really devoted its income to the arrangement of the architectural monument, everything would be fine. But again... if we remember those 700 thousand who are being taken for a survey of Riga, then... statistics show that in 2007 80,000 Riga City Council dedicated 80,000 to arrangement of the building and about 100,000 to maintenance of the building. If you calculated, then you would see that the proportion that is taken from this particular object probably doesn't correspond to what the building was building right now. Which one should put... And this historic truth was also mentioned and mentioned by Mr. Pimenova in 1939. When you look back at these documents, it is true that there is one moment in 1939 when these property rights could have been changed, but at the same time they are not legally established, and it still happens that this German church remains the only owner that has been registered. Therefore, if the property holder sees how to manage (and it is probably this opportunity, however, to get to the funds of the European Union more convincingly and perhaps more impressively), then the Riga City Council, which had a real opportunity to prove the nature of its owner, would probably be able to prove its understanding of this symbol... Well, at some point, it's definitely a limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U19	I closed the debate. Thank you. Does the committee rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission? I don't want to. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law on the law on the Holy Peter Church 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against -18, refraining from -1. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Are Members against the fact that the Commission remains responsible for the draft law? There is no objection. Thank you. Please set a deadline for the committee rapporteur to submit its proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U20	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U21	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 1 March 2019. On the agenda - the draft law “Law on Cultural Centres”, and according to Article 39 of the Saeima roll of order, the Education, Culture and Science Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Law on Cultural Centres” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Ilga Šuplinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U22	Good afternoon! The draft law “Law on Cultural Centres” has been submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Compared to the previous draft law just before, this is younger and, of course, I would very much like to see the draft law presented this year finding its way faster than the other draft laws reviewed by the Saeima. What is the nature of this? It is very topical in nature, namely, first of all, to determine the responsibility of local authorities and also of the Ministry in the delegation of cultural functions. Secondly, it is very important to understand that the multifaceted cultural offer is important not only in Riga, but also in the regions. It is precisely how, how high and how accessible culture develops in the regions that are very important in the law of cultural centres. Thirdly, it also provides for a degree of order and a strengthening of national education and thinking, namely the strengthening of civil responsibility. How? In such a way that one point related to the accreditation of cultural institutions is included. This is probably also the most controversial point of the whole draft law, because working with cultural institutions for a long time can see that the accreditation processes for municipalities are linked to a specific item of expenditure. The draft law provides that these accreditation rules are initially voluntary, but it also provides for certain advantages for those cultural institutions that decide that they are accredited. There are many things in the draft law that sort out what has not been defined by law, even more precisely - which have been enshrined in several other laws, because, unlike museums and archives, there has been no such law for cultural centres. Therefore, please support the decision to continue the examination of the draft law on cultural centres.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U23	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U24	Good morning, dear colleagues! I ask you not to support this draft law and I will explain why. I am not against cultural centres or the interests of citizens, but when I look at this draft law and its purpose, I see that it will not facilitate the activities of cultural centres and will in no way encourage the involvement of citizens in cultural life. It will oblige municipalities to find additional funding so that cultural centres can be accredited by the Latvian National Centre for Culture. I understand that the bureaucratic apparatus must recreate itself, but does it really have to do so? As an argument, the large number of municipalities is mentioned here. However, given that municipal reform is planned, this argument does not withstand criticism. I have a question: is there no planning again for an incompatibility of the current IT system so that a register of cultural centres can be kept? Do we really need that? How many registers and systems are in place in our country? That's it! Nobody knows the exact number of them, you can only mention them. The question arises: why is that so? And that is no secret to anyone too - the establishment and maintenance of these registers (most often in an incompatible way rather than in a single system) makes it necessary for the state budget to have additional funding for the maintenance of each register. Maybe it's enough to dance a ring's danci? It's time to finally stop and look at the common registry and IT system set in the country! This is just one example of how deformed systems are created for a limited number of users. I believe that the adoption of such a law will not improve the accessibility of cultural centres or the quality of the services they provide to citizens, but will lead to unjustified costs for municipalities. I repeat: I am not against the regulation of the scope of cultural centres, but I am about changing access to the order of things. I therefore ask you not to support the progress of this draft law. Thank you in advance for your common sense.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U25	Thank you. Name to Member Long Schuplinsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U26	Thank you. I am very sorry that Iveta did not raise these objections in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, in which we all participate, and then perhaps we could think even more clearly about taking over the bill. But in response to these reservations (mainly on the registration system), I have to say that I myself always have to worry if something that is linked to a new data system appears. Looking at the elements, it can be seen that the Ministry of Culture offers a very specific solution – i.e. not creating any new system, but if such a cultural centre is not registered, then add it to the digital cultural map of Latvia. This is neither an additional cost nor an additional bureaucracy. The digital cultural map of Latvia exists. It includes all cultural institutions. It seems to me that it is the responsibility of every citizen of Latvia. This is first and foremost. Second round. I certainly do not agree that this law will not improve the quality of cultural centres and will not activate citizens. And I'll give you concrete examples. As I come from Latgale myself, so I was living in the girdle, and I purposely put in a nice look at some kind of trajectories, and imitate in the pot of Skaunis... Andrupine, this and Dagdy's bats... then I found two crested catotrophic lions. The pierman's bay is that the culture is centered on the doublecylvas without the twigs. That's why, in a sense, I break, I'm a nazyne, a lively zootechnic, in a lobbies case, the school is not honest with the educational director, if the prissack is out of the center's head, if the short-played culture is in the center's head, when it's more cylvatic, it's difficult. You can't see it. It was a fact. And she's black in some way. The barbecue, which is expressed in the gulf, I will see it only in Dagdy's booby, but also in Rezekne's booby, here's a wolves. And here's the roller bells she's not a firewall. In this case (meaning that such a touch would prevent under-sleeping to smoke as a qualifying journey, which is an acute need for the purpose of deliberately culture for the work of the center, it would be a quality. The desert you're squeezing in the smoke is a cult. By the way, culture also always has added value, and it is very important that we also recognise it in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U27	Thank you to Mrs. Šuplinsk. For the respect of the Latgale and the Latgale people, I have not interrupted you. I accept that other colleagues who do not know Latgale language are present and would like to understand the debate here. I call on colleagues to debate the Latvian literary language in the future. Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U28	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on cultural centres 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Are Members opposed to keeping this commission responsible for the draft law in question? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U30	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U31	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 1 February 2019. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative””. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Legal Commission proposes to continue 12. The review of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and European Citizens’ Initiatives” presented at the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Member Vita Anda Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U32	Good morning, colleagues! At its meeting on 27 November, the Legal Commission decided to continue its examination of the draft law on ‘Amendments to the law on popular voting, legislative proposals and the European Citizens' Initiative’. The purpose of these amendments is to bring the arrangement of the election into line with that of the election campaign law. This will mean a common legal framework for promotion in public outdoors and indoors, as well as a uniform procedure for setting fees for promotion materials located in public places. On behalf of the Commission, I call for further consideration of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U33	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and European Citizens’ Initiatives” 13. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Whether Members have reservations that the Legal Commission should also be held accountable. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U34	December 20th
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U35	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 20 December this year. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Law on Public Electronic Media and Their Management” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Artus Kaimiņš, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U36	Good morning, honorable Bureau! Good morning, colleagues! Consequently, the draft law entitled ‘Law on Public Electronic Media and Their Governance’. A new law, the mover of which is 12. The Saeima was the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. On 27 November this year, at the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, Members heard representatives of the National Electronic Media Council, the public media and other media sectors of the Ministry of Culture. The draft law on public electronic media and their management aims to avoid conflicts in the sector, i.e. the fact that NEPs manage both public media and the sector as a whole. In other words, NEPLP is the shareholder of Latvian Radio and Latvian Television and, at the same time, the sectoral regulator. Members have taken note of the State Audit Office’s report on the results of the audit of legality and effectiveness in the audit case “Is the implementation of a public order useful and in the public interest?” , which pointed out that the NEPLP Law on Electronic Media sets out a number of contradictions. This is a very important draft law, and I call for support for the transposition of this draft law in this - 13. - In the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on public electronic media and their management 13. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members have reservations if this commission will also be responsible. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U38	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U39	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 January 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Legal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Law on Business Secrets” submitted to the Saeima. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U40	Hello, dear colleagues! The law of commercial secrecy will be a new law. So far, business secret has been regulated... did not actually regulate, but this name has been mentioned in separate laws, such as the Commercial Law, Civil Law and some others. Today, the Commercial Law has no meaning except in that... Maybe some colleagues were in the commission too, well, did not misunderstand, but... they highlighted one meaning, that is, not to inform the public about what is going on in the company... and that it could, in some way, involve and interfere with the acquisition of information from state-owned companies. I would like to draw attention to another aspect: that in today's modern economy, issues such as company know-how, company marketing, the company's ability to react quickly and different types of intellectual property acquire more and more importance. In order for this property to be protected, the State must ensure it primarily through substantive rules. And the Law of Business Secret will be a law that will determine in more detail the nature of the business secret and what is directly protected. And that's why I'm asking... on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the continuation of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U41	Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on commercial secrecy 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Do Members not object to the fact that this commission will also be responsible for the draft law. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U42	The deadline for submitting proposals is December 27, 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U43	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Legal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” submitted to the Saeima. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U44	These amendments to the Civil Procedure Law are in line with the upcoming Commercial Secretity Law. As I have already mentioned, the Law on Commercial Secrets is a provision of substantive law that determines what is a commercial secret, what kind of commercial secrecy is protected. But for this to happen physically or also in nature, a process is needed. And it is protected by legal methods. These legal measures, the legal way in which they are protected, are provided for in the Civil Procedure Law. Relevant measures of protection of commercial secrecy are included in these amendments to the Civil Procedure Law, which are provided for in the draft law. I therefore call for support to be given to the continuation of the examination of this draft law. 13 In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U45	Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Whether Members have reservations that the Legal Commission will also be responsible. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U46	The deadline for submitting proposals would be 27 December 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U47	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Vladimir Nikonov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U48	Good morning, honourable colleagues! We consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations”. Amendments to the Law are intended to comply with the judgement of the Constitutional Court of 26 April 2018 in the case No. 2017-18-01, which was declared to be incompatible with the Satversme by several norms of the Law on Religious Organisations. The Constitutional Court held that Section 7(2) of the Law on Religious Organisations, insofar as it does not provide for the right to newly established parishes... to establish a religious union before the end of the re-registration period of 10 years, and Section 8(4) of the Law on Religious Organisations, which states that this re-registration requirement regarding period and procedure does not comply with the principle of proportionality and therefore also Articles 99 and 102 of the Satversme. The Constitutional Court also recognised that the restriction set in Section 7(3) of the Law on Religious Organisations, which prevents more than one church from being registered in one church, is not a legitimate objective and it does not comply with Articles 99 and 102 of the Satversme. The judgment of the Constitutional Court changes, in essence, the procedure previously existing in relations between state and religious organizations, terminating the differences established by the law regarding registration of associations, obtaining the status of a legal person and the scope of the rights and powers of organisations. The Commission has examined this draft law and supported it. On behalf of the Commission, please support the continuation of the examination of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U49	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U50	Dear President, Honourable Members! The Commission will be very difficult to choose because there are major problems called the Orthodox Church of Latvia. We all know what is happening in Ukraine, and the Orthodox Church of Latvia as such was in the Patriarchy of Constantinople. The occupation in Ukraine led to this so-called subordination from the Patriarchy of Constantinople to the Patriarchy of Moscow. But where is the problem? Historian Heinrich Strods, who had travelled to Moscow to examine these documents, did not find the Russian patriarch's signature on the document that the Orthodox Church of Latvia joins the patriarchy of Moscow. Why? Because there were no patriarchs in Russia at that time. They were eliminated. It was only in 1943 that Stalin appointed the KGB officer as the patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church. And this signature does not exist. The situation in Ukraine is the same as that of the cosmos where no one... In Moscow, no volume was received, and the Constantinople Church was restored. Estonia has restored Estonia's Orthodox Church in the Patriarchy of Constantinople, and there is also a second Church. So there are two Churches. The Commission obviously needs to find some consensus for the second reading. There are currently 11 Orthodox congregations in Latvia, which are registered in the Register of Enterprises. You can check; I just looked at it. They recognise the Patriarchy of Constantinople. It can't be that the Latvian state is occupied, the cheque eliminates the legal Church and we are now writing that we have the Latvian Orthodox Church. It is the Russian Orthodox Church, and it also creates chaos with Christmas. Latvian Orthodox Church in the Patriarchy of Constantinople and its 11th church celebrations are celebrated together with Catholics, as are the Finnish Orthodox Church and the Estonian Orthodox Church. Don't mix these things! And the Commission, unfortunately... This is, of course, a difficult issue, because there is also a believer... the business of believers. We cannot impose on us from above, but we must admit that there are two Churches, that the Latvian Orthodox Church, which is in the Patriarchy of Constantinople as such, has never been abolished legally in Latvia. Now these issues need to be addressed in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U51	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members have reservations if this commission will also be responsible. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U52	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 1 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U53	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the parliamentary roll, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U54	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Very significant progress has been made in the development of the Land Guard. Training for landguards has been improved. As we know, earthguards are volunteers who serve at Earth’s Watch Tower during their free time. However, after the end of basic training, every landguard is invited to develop his or her skills in individual training and become one of the specialists - a liaison, a medical doctor - or an instructor, and already run a department. The big lessons are also going on (this year, these were the " Namejs", which lasted two weeks and where the landguards took part for five to six days). So far, the landguards have tried to solve this issue themselves - they have turned to their employers to get extra days off the ground. This draft law is intended to supplement and clarify the regulation included in the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guard. It is based on the fact that the employer grants a maximum of five working days per year to the landguard for collective training, therefore for these large trainings, and pays remuneration for this period in accordance with Section 74, first paragraph, point 10 of the Labour Law. The employer must also release the landguard to the training if it is individual training, but in this case it is the employer's free choice – to pay or not pay the remuneration. This also applies to educational institutions - they would be obliged to exempt the Landguard from training or studies, and to retain the right to continue them. The draft law also includes various technical amendments. The said draft law is included in a package with amendments to the Labour Law, which provides for employer's action in such situations and provides that the National Armed Forces shall compensate the employer for the compensation paid for employee's training. The procedure by which the National Armed Forces compensate the employee for his compensation and the amount of compensation will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers (the expected amount of compensation - up to 50 euros per day). The Commission supported this draft law at its meeting on 28 November. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the examination of the draft law to continue 13. In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Do Members have reservations if this commission will also be responsible. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U56	20 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U57	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 December this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the parliamentary roll, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption proposes to continue 12. Review of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Military Service Law’ submitted to the Saeima. Member Mārtiņš Staķis on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U58	This draft law also forms part of one package together with the Labour Law and is related to changes in 2015, when the training of spare soldiers was launched. It is still being developed and... but legislative changes are needed to allow training to be carried out in a more rational and high-quality way. The purpose of the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” is clearly stated – the employer or educational institution is obliged to exempt from the performance of duties employees or students who are involved in the military training of spare soldiers during their work or training, and to consider it as a valid reason, because this case is characterised as an act of general public interest, namely, in this case, in the interests of state defence. These amendments also provide that the employer, in accordance with his financial capacity and free choice as well as his internal convictions, shall pay remuneration to an employee who does not work as a result of military training. It should be noted that the duration of training of spare soldiers is higher than that of the landguards. It's up to five days for the Earthguards, but for the spare soldiers it's like... for a military officer of officers - up to nine months, up to 60 days in one year; for a military officer of instructors and soldiers they shall be up to six months, up to 30 days in one year, and the interval between regular training may not be less than four years. At the same time, the draft law includes various technical amendments which replace previously used concepts and names, namely the term ‘disabled’ is replaced by the term ‘person with disabilities’ and the term ‘New Guard and Information Centre’ - the term ‘New Guard Centre’. The Commission also supported these proposals at its meeting on 28 November. On behalf of the Commission, please continue the examination of this draft law. 13 In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U59	Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law 13. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The parliamentary commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was responsible for this. Whether Members have objections to 13 in the same way. In the Saeima, this commission will be responsible? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U60	20 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U61	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 December this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U62	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has examined and proposes to continue 13. See the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities” in the Saeima. The draft legislation proposed for review includes two new regulatory blocks. One relates to the fact that municipalities are entitled to issue informational expenses, as well as to the conditions under which they are issued. The draft law also proposes to clarify the order of meetings of the council and committees. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support further progress in the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U63	Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities” 13. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Whether Members have reservations that this commission will continue to be responsible. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U64	The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U65	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 20 December of this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Inese Iskten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U66	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. The Commission continues to examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Documents”, which states that an ID card or ID card will be a mandatory document for citizens from 2023 onwards, as well as a transitional period from 2019 to 2022. On behalf of the Commission, please support... continue the evaluation of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U67	Please call me! We will vote for the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The National Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members have objections to this commission being held accountable 13. In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U68	27 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U69	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U70	Hello, colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have examined 12. The draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” submitted to the Saeima and we have supported the continuation of its examination 13. In the family. In short, this draft law requires direct and indirect management bodies and public-sector capital companies to respect and promote free competition. The Law should be supplemented by arrangements for the Competition Council to deal with institutions and public-sector capital companies, as well as competition-restricting activities carried out by them. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission asks 13. Continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on Competition Law 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have objections to this commission being held accountable 13. In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U72	The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 January 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U73	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U74	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U75	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 14 January 2019. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.) In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” submitted to the Saeima. Member Ivars Zarins is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U76	Hello, colleagues! We continue to examine draft laws in heritage from the previous Saeima. Briefly about this draft law. Colleagues, with this bill, we can call the tomb for the OIC. I'll explain what that means to be right... because there are many speculations around this draft law that have already begun. In particular, with this draft law, we are not proposing to put an end to the system of support for the production of subsidised electricity. With this draft law, we do not propose a fundamental change. With this draft law, we simply propose a clear, clear regulation at the level of the law - what kind of system should this system be in order to comply with the principles that have long been in place. How did this bill come into being? Unlike many other draft laws, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy itself has led this draft law. After a year, we had six meetings of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the OIC issues, and the Ministry of Economics had promised us six times that it would work on this issue that I would handle this matter... and when we came up for the seventh time and started discussing this draft law, you know what the Ministry of Economics said, which until now had brought nothing? It said, "You know, we should make a task force about this!" This led to general laughter within the Commission, and the Commission unanimously supported that it would itself submit a draft law that would prevent the OIC from taking action. What was initially envisaged by this draft law presented by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy? Four simple, principled, self-evident things. First thing. The beneficiaries must effectively verify that they fulfil the conditions for the aid. The second thing. If the beneficiaries do not fulfil the conditions for aid, no aid shall be due. An elemental case, clearly identifying it. Next thing. If the aid has been unlawfully received, it shall be eligible for such aid to be recovered. And the fourth thing. The calculation of overcompensation, that is, overcompensation, must be carried out, and Latvia must finally fulfil what it has promised to the European Commission, namely that this aid scheme must be coherent and lawful, and that the aid must be proportionate in accordance with the rules of European Union law and the decision of the European Commission. Four elementary things. For the second reading this draft law received a whole series of other proposals - mainly from the Ministry of Economics - which are not related at all to the OIC. Important, important things that really need to be resolved and which for some reason have not been dealt with by the Ministry of Economics all the time. For example, in connection with the synchronization of our electricity networks with other European networks. As far as possible, we examined these proposals and supported what we could. Consequently, the draft law that is before you today has already become much wider and more complex. However, we decided unanimously in the Commission to continue to see this draft law and, if necessary, to divide it into two parts. One will apply specifically to the OIC field, and the other to the other. Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U77	Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U78	13 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U79	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 December this year. Honourable Members! A proposal for changes to the agenda has been tabled. Members Aldis Adamovičs, Arturs Toms Plēšs, Atis Zakaistovs, Raivis Dzintars, Uldis Augulis, Juta Strīķe and others urge to amend the agenda of the Saeima sitting by including the draft decision on the expression of support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine in relation to the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Azov Sea and the Kerch Strait. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP: “Yes, yes! ” ; dep. A. Neighbours: Which Members? ) Members have reservations. So we have to vote and each Member will express his point of view. Please call me! We will vote in favour of amending the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision on the expression of support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine in relation to the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Azov Sea and the Kerch Strait! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 20, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision is therefore taken - the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. Dear colleagues, Members Aldis Adamovičs, Arturs Toms Plēšs, Atis Zakaistovs, Raivis Dzintars, Uldis Augulis, Juta Strike, Jānis Dombrava, Edvins Šnore, Inguna Ribena, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule and Ilze Indicksone have submitted their own proposal – draft decision on the expression of support for the sovereignty and territorial indivisibility of Ukraine in relation to the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Azov Sea and Kerča Strait. This draft decision shall be considered as an own-initiative proposal. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Urbanovich: “Yes!” ) Member Urbanovich has reservations. If at least one Member has an objection, we shall be voting on the draft decision on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision of the Saeima “On the expression of support for the sovereignty and territorial indivisibility of Ukraine in relation to the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Azov Sea and the Kerch Strait” on the agenda of the Saeima's next regular sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft decision is on the agenda for the next ordinary sitting. We are on the agenda under the heading ‘Review of draft legislation’. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U80	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! As a matter of urgency, we see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 53/Lp13). In the second reading, 14 proposals were received. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Health Anda Chakšas. This and the other proposals of the Minister for Health relate to the question of... in the context of the question of medical persons employed by state institutions and persons employed by the Emergency Medical Assistance Service. The essence of the proposal is to enable them to raise remuneration or pay so that they can be competitive so that they can be prepared to work on this difficult, difficult job. One of the restrictive factors that has so far not allowed it to be fully implemented is that this law lays down minimum and maximum rates of monthly salaries. Even if it were very, very much money, these ceilings are so low that wages cannot be increased to a level that is right today. The proposal, supported by the Commission, also provides that the monthly salary of staff working with the Public Authorities and the Emergency Medical Service shall be determined according to the assessment of the post, with a ceiling to be abolished.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U82	2. is a proposal from the Legal Office. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U84	3. There is also a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U86	4. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnačs, which has been supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U88	5. There is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U90	6. is the proposal of the Minister of Health Anda Chakša, which provides that the monthly salary of medical professionals and drivers of an emergency medical team shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, with a minimum monthly salary accordingly. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U92	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U94	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U96	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U98	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U100	11 is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnač. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U102	11 is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnač. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U103	11. We supported it. On the agenda, Proposal No 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U104	12. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnačs. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U106	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnač. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U108	And 14. - Mrs Chash's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U109	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U110	Thank you. I invite you to support the draft law at second reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U111	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U112	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law” (No. 22/Lp13). I would remind you that this draft law is urgent and that is why the final reading is under consideration. The Education, Culture and Science Commission received six proposals for this draft law. These are all the proposals of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, clarifying individual norms or clarifying the text of the bill in editorial terms. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U114	The proposal 2 has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U116	Also 3. - The Legal Bureau's proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U118	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U120	5. - The Legal Bureau's proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U122	6. - The Legal Bureau's proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U124	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call on you, fellow Members, to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U125	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U126	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. As the Speaker of the Saeima said, this draft law was declared urgent. The Legal Commission has received one proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is technically editorial in nature, and the Commission has supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U128	All the proposals have therefore been examined. And on behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U129	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U130	Dear colleagues, In the second final reading we see the draft law on budgetary and financial management (No. 54/Lp13). Nine proposals have been received. 1. is a motion from Member Klementyev, which has not been endorsed by the Commission. The nature of the proposal already provides for the temporary budget to finance the remuneration of medical professionals of medical institutions. This is set out in the information report that the government has examined. This proposal cannot be supported by substance, as issues concerning the allocation of funding to sectoral priorities are to be addressed when preparing the annual draft state budget. The draft law “Amendment to the Law on Budget and Financial Management” regulates the budgetary process rather than addresses the issues of funding. The Commission has not supported this proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U131	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U132	The proposal of the Member, Mr Pouce, which has been supported, is included 6. - the Commission's proposal. In essence, it lays down the same conditions for municipal loans as public authorities in the provisional budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U134	3. - Mr. Pouce's proposal. Supported. Incorporated in 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U136	4. - Mr. Pouce's proposal. It is supported, included in 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U138	5. is a technical proposal from the Legal Office. It is supported, included in 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U140	6. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is essentially a summary of proposals 2, 3, 4 and 5. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U142	7. There is a proposal from the Member, Mr Valaiņa, which cannot be supported in substance. And then I will comment on behalf of the Commission why the Commission has not supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U143	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U144	Hello, colleagues! Let me explain the substance of my proposal. Currently, this law, the Law on Budget and Financial Management, provides that the budget of the Saeima, the state budget, shall be submitted to the Saeima within four months. I am tabling this proposal so that the budget can reach the Saeima more quickly. That is, it provides that the budget is to be submitted within four months of... from the moment the new Saeima came together. Why do I think so? In my opinion, however, we are a parliamentary state: the government is presenting the budget, but we are accepting it. We are correcting the budget, we are dealing with all the issues that we will have to deal with in any case - today, in a month, in a month, in two or half a year. Make proposals to Members, political groups, ministries. This is not excluded. But in this case... If we do not do this sooner, we are in the situation we are in today - that we are getting out of the common system of small particles. Medicals have a crisis - we are addressing this issue. The Constitutional Court takes some decision regarding judges' salaries - we address this issue. But the budget is not just these few things! That is a much broader question! And if a sector does not sound loud at the moment, it does not mean that there are no problems. We'll be right there - we'll be right there! - also that sport will come and say that they have to prepare for the Olympic Games and that they lack funding. There will be a number of other questions. However, all of them must be viewed in such a context. And that's the state budget. In my view, the Saeima should not be afraid of itself and look at this budget. There is a Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission where all issues can be looked at and sought compromise. We do not have to wait for one or the other person to establish or create a new government. We can also start working faster. That is the point of my proposal. However, I know that some shortcomings were identified in the Commission that raise questions as to whether or not such a proposal is a breach of the Constitution. Respecting this and being aware of the nature of this draft law, because it nevertheless deals with many issues relating to teachers and other issues (the appropriate remuneration that this draft law provides should be ensured from next year) I withdrew my proposal. But I very much hope that this Saeima will see the real budget for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U145	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U146	Yes, thank you to Mr Valaiņa for withdrawing the proposal. And a brief comment. Indeed - according to the Constitution, the draft budget shall be submitted by the Saeima to the Cabinet of Ministers. Consequently, the meeting of the new Saeima cannot be considered as a reference point for the preparation of the draft budget, allowing the situation that the draft budget shall be submitted by the Saeima to the outgoing government. The new budget is made up of the new government, offering its own policy direction as well as appropriate proposals for expenditure and revenue. 8. There is a proposal from Members, Mr Eglitis and Mr Znotiņš, the nature of which is to provide for a lump sum allowance for those working in the home restaurant and in prison management after five years of continuous service. This has not been supported because, by its very nature, the general rule on benefits, which has already been incorporated into this draft law, is being duplicated.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U147	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U148	And 9 is a motion from Member Dombrovskis, which, as we have already discussed before, is not, by its very nature, supported for the same reason. This amendment to the Law on Budget and Financial Management regulates the budgetary process rather than dealing with financing issues. New expenditure should be provided for in a new budget law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U149	Colleagues! Before we start a debate on this proposal, I would like to inform you that Members of the Parliamentary Assembly, Mr Dzintars, Mr Krauze, Mr Puce, Mr Adamovič, Mr Strike and Mr Zakaitistov, are asking to continue the sitting until all the items on the agenda are examined, so without interruption. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. We're continuing the sitting all the time. We launched a debate on proposal 9. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U150	Dear colleagues, Many people, especially medical practitioners, have been quite embarrassed about what is happening to the next year's budget. Does the government promise that all those working in the field of health - doctors and others - will be increased by 20 percent... They are confused about this. The Minister of Government promised if... there were no objections to either the Prime Minister or others. Obviously this was a promise by the whole government. Is that going to happen? Also, when it comes to the situation that has arisen, as I said, there is urgent medical help. It is possible to adjust next year's gross domestic product forecast in line with the latest European Commission forecast for higher growth. It is possible to increase the revenue forecast by at least EUR 16 million, which is more than necessary to raise salaries for staff in the Emergency Medical Service by 20 per cent. It only costs more than eight million euros of salt. Medicals have still failed to understand whether the legislator wants to deal with this issue in substance or whether the legislator, like the so-called old parties, is willing to find new reasons or excuses for not dealing with this issue in substance. Colleagues, please introduce clarity on this issue with your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U151	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U152	Colleagues, the situation is... It is not a matter of priority that all proposals coming from A COHESION must be rejected because they come from A COHESION. We have also said this in our pre-election messages to the people who voted for us. But when I see this 9th proposal coming from SACKA - from Member Dombrovskis, I absolutely do not see any problem in this tense time when the NMPD has clearly given news to the Saeima, to possible, impossible parties, to governments that will form... that there's no money. They work on the edge of enthusiasm. They work overtime because they love their work. They save lives, but they get less than sushi... cooks, huh? Is that what I think it is? Or sushi masters, let's take it. Then either we will be very good sushi soon, because the doctors just go to work, really will make very delicious sushi, or we will have a sure, professional collective in NMPD cars. I believe that this EUR 8 313 222 is a spring in the sea if we look at Latvia's total budget, which is about EUR 9 billion, and we can find this money and immediately channel it to NMPD staff. These people deserve it and, if God does not give you, you will have something to do and you will have to call this brigade. And they will know that you are Members who have not supported this proposal to raise their salaries to keep them there. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U153	Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U154	Dear colleagues, I really appreciate the good will of Member Dombrovskis and Member Neighbours to help those working in our healthcare sector. This is a very important problem for the Emergency Medical Service... and not just in terms of pay... However, it has to be said that the specific proposal made by Member Dombrovskis does not, unfortunately, solve this problem. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “How does it not solve?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Read the proposal, please. What's it say? Member Dombrovskis suggests that the Minister of Finance, when drawing up the so-called interim budget, must make provision for a certain amount, in certain euro. We're... in order to understand you: in fact, no provisional budget is being prepared. This is the order of the Minister of Finance approving the estimates of expenditure. To confirm the statement of expenditure... And the law in this case is very precise. We have just supported a number of proposals, including a joint, joint proposal by the Commission, which actually makes it clear: if any of the laws, regulations or administrative provisions have a certain level of remuneration to be paid, then the Minister of Finance is obliged to do so by approving these estimates. I also told Member Dombrovskis on several occasions at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) - there is in fact a way to address this problem, which he mentions. However, his proposal does not address this. It's a road that doesn't allow it. If we accept this amendment, it will not, in fact, give the Minister of Finance any opportunity to raise the salary for the employees of the NMPD. It won't help! The Minister of Finance will still not be able to do so. If we want to do so, we need to amend the remuneration legislation which... by the way, it has just been amended, but there Mr Dombrovskis has not put forward any proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U155	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U156	Dear colleagues, I have a few words - these are not my words - to be addressed to Mr. Puce... and not just. But before I read those words, I... I think that all those present at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) remember very well the discussion on this issue (and not just on this issue) - a discussion about the fact that... If someone, including Mr Pouces, believes that the proposal in question is not legally sufficiently correct, then either the Commission with Mr Pouce's participation can formulate another, better proposal, or Mr Pouce can... if he sees a better way, he can point it out and suggest his own proposals. Did Mr. Pouce do this? He didn't. Mr. Poece! I think that these words are still as topical as 20 years ago: there is an enemy who is the one who is the most perverting to us: the poverty of the will force. This rainy, contagious disease that prevents you from getting up from a chair when you have to straighten your back and does not allow you to take the first step when you have to go ahead. Think, please, of those words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U157	The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U158	Dear new Members, I will address you directly. Now, in essence, there will be a legal delay that this proposal does not comply with Article 66 of the Satversme. That is, the article stipulates that the Saeima decides each year before the beginning of the financial year on the state income and expenditure budget, the draft of which is submitted to it by the Cabinet of Ministers. If the Saeima takes a decision relating to expenditure not included in the budget, the decision shall also provide for the means to cover such expenditure. Seeing this proposal... It is not written here - from where to take these EUR 8 313 222 for NMPD employees. Yeah, it's not written here! Oh, my God! We can write in here, we can find them. It's so charming... I very much like this name, the "unforeseen" name. Contingency funds are specifically intended for such contingencies! Imagine!Is that so? There's that money here, there you can find it. Thus, it corresponds to the entire frame frame in the Constitution, which must be... The budget and financial (tax) commission should want to help NMPD staff, Mr Pouce, whatever the legal delay, the whole motivation, and so on. For it is the lives of those who save lives. So please be so kind, support this proposal! KPV LV, UK, NA, please support this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U159	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U160	Colleagues! Article 66 of the Satversme was not in line with my previous proposal. This proposal may be appropriate, but I call on Vjačeslav Dombrovskis and colleagues not to support this proposal, but to address this problem in another law. Submit New... you can present a new bill today! But this particular draft law is known... a great responsibility. Let us remember why it was presented at all. It was presented with one objective: to ensure that, next year, all persons, including those with all the measures... who have increased salaries... teachers and other issues... so that the teacher does not receive less pay on 1 January than on 1 December. And we shouldn't forget this because we've got quite a little time left. In this regard, I would like the President of Latvia to declare this law, but in this way... in support of the proposal, we can risk having such a law announced, or we will not get it back to the Saeima for re-reading. These medical issues and everything else, as has already been said, should be dealt with in the budget in the normal way, looking at everything together. These are not the only problems in the country that we have to deal with. There are many more problems. And I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported by thinking about the whole of the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U161	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U162	I am listening to this debate, and I have a valid question: what are you doing in that Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission? If you all speak on one word, it is a problem that needs to be addressed and everyone says - yes, yes, it needs to be addressed, but this solution is not appropriate. Why have you not prepared today to have a suitable solution? Where are the problems? Why is there no such proposal if you reject it? That is your competence, your task is to resolve it. Or to say honestly that everything you have promised to society... that will face the challenge of medical salaries, which really must be addressed... that they are all lies, that you are not going to do it at all. Otherwise, what were the problems? This has not been done. There are only two options. Either you purposefully think about society now and are not going to solve it, or you do not understand what you are doing. This should have been resolved. So, colleagues, I am calling today on those who will vote 'no' to come and tell us how this problem will be dealt with. Otherwise, honestly say that you simply continue to deceive the community and there will be no money for the doctors. The Minister for Health is sitting here. Please come to the platform, now as a Member, and tell me how you will take care of, how you will do what you have been doing long ago and what you were talking about before the elections. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U163	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U164	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! This proposal - and I am calling for it - is proof of the fact that in this House, 'Development/About' is there. the position of any question. ‘ Development/About!’ is able to criticise everything completely without providing any constructive solutions. Especially (Interim) a commission in which these proposals are to be prepared for Mr Puces. That is the attitude in Parliament, and I believe that it is the most inconstructive attitude possible. Support the proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U165	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U166	Colleagues! I understand that we are politicians. And politicians (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Some are, some are not!” ) there are men who, as speakers, “force in the hand ”! But if you really want to solve a problem, it is not enough simply to make beautiful speeches and to elevate a wooden sword. Healthcare needs much more funding. Eight million - this is good, but the Ministry of Health has estimated that 87 million are needed next year to ensure the promised growth. So why not submit proposals for 87? What are we doing here so modestly? ( FROM a faction: “Let’s go! ” ) Only 10 per cent... In essence, this proposal, as Mr Pouce has already said, will not solve the question of the compensation of the Emergency Medical Service, even if you accept it. The Minister for Finance will not be able to pay this remuneration (Dep. A. Nemiņš: “Minister! You are a minister!’ ) staff. That's one. Second. You really threaten the entry into force of this law. If we vote on such a norm today, then the President of Latvia may have difficulty announcing this law. And so, from 1 January, you will have a budget, not a medium-term budget, which will provide more pensions and higher salaries for educators, as it is in December, but on 1 January, part of society will suddenly wake up with less pensions and less pay. Is that what we want to achieve? No, no. The medical doctor's total remuneration. The call is indeed to finally agree and establish a new government so that a new budget can be created, providing the funding that is really needed (Applause). the health sector. If this is not the case in the coming weeks, the Minister for Health will come with a proposal to pay a 20 per cent higher salary for medical professionals from January, also offering a vision of the sources of funding, as this is another aspect that needs to be taken into account. Those who are going to be finance ministers and those who are going to run government are not growing money in trees! There is no closet near the bed, whose door you can open and grab in it. ( Internouncing call.) If you want to spend some euro, you also need to show where you come from, how you will earn it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Though you don’t get sick, Dana!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U167	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, you promised to report on this proposal as rapporteur. For the Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U168	Yeah. Colleagues, I would like to remind you once again that this proposal cannot be supported by its substance, given that the Law on Budget and Financial Management regulates the budgetary process rather than addresses the issue of funding. This is not supported by the Commission. I call for this proposal not to be supported at the Saeima sitting either. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U169	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Dombrovskis's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 53, against - 28, refrains - 4. The proposal is supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U170	Thank you, colleagues. All the proposals have been examined. I do not know the consequences of supporting proposal 9, but I ask that the whole of the draft law be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U171	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Juris Jušaks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U172	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! In its meeting of 27 November this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, conceptually supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”. The draft law provides for clarification of the rights of state police, municipal police and port police officers to deliver under safe conditions persons who have lost their ability to move or or direct themselves independently as a result of the use of alcohol, narcotic or toxic substances or may cause harm to others or to themselves. In the future, these persons will be supplied to institutions providing rehabilitation services at a home or in a medical institution, rather than at a police office, as provided for in the previous regulation. The regulation is linked to the fact that being under pressure without any other violation of rights in accordance with human rights standards cannot be regarded as grounds for detention. Police premises also do not meet the following objectives: I draw attention to the fact that the draft law does not oblige local governments to create reclamations, which is a voluntary initiative of local governments, but provides for clarification of police law. The second innovation concerns the prevention of domestic violence by providing that persons can be held in the police office for as long as the ground for danger has disappeared, but for a maximum period of 12 hours. It is intended not only for persons who will be under the influence of the police, but also at the initiative of the police, if the people around them are afraid to remain alone and there is no other basis for apprehending it. To date, the regulation has provided for such detention until recovery or clarification of circumstances. The aim of the regulation is to stop or prevent domestic violence, threats to the life, freedom or health of persons, and the likelihood that the threat may continue. The third innovation concerns the right of the police to use not only the media, but also social networks in which to publish information in order to clarify the identity of a person who is unable to report himself or to identify him, including in case of disasters. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U173	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U174	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 20 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U175	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the law on the holding of persons in custody”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Juris Jušaks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U176	In its meeting of 27 November this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, conceptually supported the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Detaining Persons”. The draft law provides for no further determination of the Security Police as a place of temporary detention and for the maintenance of such places only in the State Police, where also persons detained by the Security Police will be delivered. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U177	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the law on the detention of persons in custody! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U178	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 11 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U179	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U180	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids” (No. 13/Lp13). The Cabinet of Ministers has drafted and submitted to the Saeima amendments to the law which provide that Implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/574 requires Member States to appoint an independent third party responsible for generation and issuance of unique identifiers in accordance with the requirements of that Regulation. In accordance with the provisions of the Implementing Regulation, it is necessary to ensure the independence of the tobacco sector and the independence of public authorities or undertakings governed by public law as well as subcontractors from the tobacco sector. The Cabinet of Ministers believes that the most appropriate institution is the State Joint Stock Company “State Radio and Television Centre of Latvia”. The eleventh paragraph of Article 6 of the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and their Liquids provides: “The unique identifier, the information contained in the unique identifier, the technical standards for the establishment and operation of the tracking and tracing system, the requirements for the equipment necessary to ensure the operation of the tracking and tracing system, the data processing and storage requirements and the procedure for the unique identifier to be placed on tobacco products units shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers.” Dear colleagues, The Commission has examined this draft law at its meeting and is asking for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U181	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U182	The Commission is also asking for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U183	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U184	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 14 December. Review - 20 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U185	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 14 December this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 20 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U186	Dear colleagues, We work with a draft law, the essence of which is to improve citizens' ability to express their will for the use of organs and tissues after death, as well as to promote public knowledge and understanding of the use of human body and tissues after death. And more specifically. Being. Until now, citizens were only able to express their will in person in the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs or electronically by submitting an application with an e-signature in the Population Register. The amendments provide for this information to be registered in the future in the Health Information System and thus for every citizen to be able to register their will through the E-Health system. The draft law also provides for a procedure to be followed by medical persons to ascertain from the closest citizens the will expressed during the life of the deceased person. The draft law shall determine the procedure and the time during which closest relatives of the deceased may inform the medical institution of the will expressed during the life of the deceased person. The draft law also requires the Ministry of Health to develop and distribute information material in public education campaign. The Commission examined the draft law and supported it conceptually. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U187	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U188	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U189	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 7 January 2019. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U190	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! On 28 November this year, in its meeting, the Legal Commission conceptually supported the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. Overall, the draft law is designed to implement the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against fraud, which also affects the financial interests of the European Union... and strengthen protection against criminal offences in the financial sector. The draft law is very large, and it also includes other amendments related to violation of sanctions imposed by international organisations and the Republic of Latvia, vehicle theft, definition of commercial secrecy, avoidance of court ruling, concealment of criminally acquired objects. It is very important that these amendments reinforce the responsibility of public officials to dispose of the financial resources and assets entrusted to them. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U191	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U192	20 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U193	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 December this year. On the agenda - draft law on the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U194	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We work with documents No. No 26 26B and Nos 95. This draft law on the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human organs aims to promote the transparency of the system in all Member States. In addition, it provides for the criminalisation of criminal offences such as illegal removal of human organs, their use for implantation, recruitment for organ trafficking, the storage, transport of illegally removed organs, and for the responsibility for supporting and inciting those offences. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law at first reading and supported it. On behalf of the Commission, I also call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U195	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U196	December 12th
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U197	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Air Traffic”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U198	We work with documents No. 20 and No 96. Although this draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Korea on Air Transport” does not immediately foresee that there will be direct air carriers, it is a step that will contribute to the development of air traffic services. It offers opportunities and conditions for the launch of scheduled services and lays down the operating principles for airlines from both countries. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined and supported the draft law. I call on you, on behalf of the Commission, to do so.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U199	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Korea on air traffic! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U200	December 12th
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U201	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 12 December this year. On the agenda – draft law “On accession of the National Defence Department of Canada to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation on Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Kingdom of the Kingdom of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the Chief of Reform of Public Forces of the Supreme Command of the Republic of North Atlantic on Strategic Strategic. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U202	We work with documents No. 38 and No 97. This bill concerns the accession of Canada to the Memorandum of Understanding between all Member States already participating in NATO StratCom in Riga. All the countries that have already been mentioned (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.) in the title, are members. And it is worth noting here that several years ago, the Canadian Government gave one million dollars to this Riga StratCom and will now send its experts to take part in this important work. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law and supported it for its first reading and calls on colleagues to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U203	Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “On the accession of the National Defence Department of Canada to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the staff of the Chief of Reform of Public Forces of the Supreme Command on Strategic Communications of the North Atlantic Treaty” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U204	December 12th
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U205	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted by this year (Dep. O.E. Kalniņš: “Thank you.” ) on 12 December. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U206	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, This is a technical benchmark for draft laws. It makes sense to clarify the reference to the corporate tax rate recorded from another law. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U207	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U208	Deadline for submission of proposals - 2 January next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U209	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 January 2019. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U210	Hello! During the meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Law were discussed, please see them in the urgency procedure. The amendments are intended to reinstate the requirements of the European Union directive concerning anti-avoidance provisions on corporate tax. Their aim is to tax corporate income income that Latvian taxpayers may have earned from real transactions abroad.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U211	The Commission therefore proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Income Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U212	The deadline for submitting proposals is 7 December 2018, second reading: 13 December 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U213	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 7 December this year... Did the Commission decide to what extent? It wasn't decided. So, December 7. And consideration at the Saeima sitting on 13 December this year. Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U214	Good morning, honourable colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” provides for a change of the highest threshold of personal income tax progression and establishes the procedure for determining income from the disposal of virtual currency. Request for a draft law to be declared urgent. Given that income from a transaction with a virtual currency is a specific type of income, it could be treated as income from capital gains by applying the personal income tax rate of 20 per cent specified in Section 15(5) of the Law. However, since the virtual currency is different from traditional assets, there is no reason to allow the annual tax losses from the disposal of the virtual currency to be covered by the annual tax income generated by the disposal of other assets. Thus, virtual losses can only be covered by the income of other virtual currencies. Income from capital gains in transactions with virtual currency shall also be determined in a similar way to other capital assets, i.e. the value of the disposal of the capital asset shall be deducted from the value of the acquisition which the payer is able to prove and justify by means of supporting documents. Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U215	So let's first vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U216	The deadline for tabling proposals - 7 December this year, second reading - 13 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U217	Thank you. Time limit for the submission of proposals - 7 December of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 13 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U218	Hello, dear colleagues! The purpose of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” is to fulfil the obligations towards the European Union by introducing the relevant European Union legislation, as well as to clarify the application of value added tax in certain transactions, so that the regulation is consistent with the interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union and is clear. Thus, this draft law provides for the adoption by 1 January 2019 of the regulation of the European Union in transactions with vouchers and in the field of e-commerce, as well as the clarification of the information references to the directives of the European Union, which have been transposed into Latvian law, to establish a clear application of value added tax in transactions with building rights, to clarify the nature and content of the transactions carried out within the framework of the distribution group of VAT exemption costs, in accordance with the interpretation of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has supported this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U219	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U220	The deadline shall be 2 January of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U221	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted by 2 January 2019. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, first reading. Aldis Adamovičs, on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U222	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the amendments proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Law on Public Procurement. The main objective is to provide for more stringent control over procurement in the field of security services. Currently, when the client purchases security services, he is not obliged to check and conclude a contract with the tenderers subject to the conditions of exclusion of the tenderers provided for in the Law on Public Procurement. In view of the economic performance in the security services sector, the purpose of the draft law on the procurement of these services is to impose an obligation on the contracting entity to verify the conditions for exclusion laid down by law. The second is that the draft law provides for exceptions to the application of the procurement procedure in the Register of Quality Assurance of Academic Information Centre or other European higher education institutions included in the quality assurance agency's services in the evaluation of courses. The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I also call for this to be supported at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U223	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U224	Deadline for the second reading of the proposals - 20 December 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U225	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 20 December this year. We are in the process of examining the own-initiative proposals. Draft decision on the Saeima Resolution on Non-Participation with the UN Global Pact on Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U226	Dear colleagues, A week ago, the young Conservatives voted in favour of including the issue of 'On non-acceptance to the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration' on the agenda. And why? We want to highlight the need for an explanatory and open discussion on migration issues. The kind that did not really exist in Latvian society. And given the sensitivity of this issue, how easy it is to politicise this issue, it is not forging that there has been such a vacuum of information for so long with regard to this international document from the responsible ministries and government. And here I am thinking of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. Although the issue on the parliamentary agenda is due to the draft resolution prepared by the National Alliance, with which we call on the government not to accede to the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration, the National Alliance (together with the NEW UNION) has been a government party for the entire time and is, to some extent, co-responsible for the situation that the public has not received a public explanation of the importance of the declaration for more than two years as well as for international political and legal consistency. There could have been an in-depth discussion, which would prevent any speculation and assumptions on this issue, in particular as regards the interpretation of the international legal consequences of the declaration. I also encouraged such a hearing in the Foreign Affairs Commission last week, but unfortunately the head of the committee, who has also signed the motion for a resolution first, did not support this proposal. But what has happened since last week? In the middle there was a closed meeting of the government, in which the Cabinet took note of an information report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, after which the Prime Minister announced that he would leave the final decision to the Saeima. I would like to draw the public's attention to the fact that Members of the Saeima have not had an information report on the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration. We thank the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who came to the political groups and explained the inaccuracy of the proposed draft Saeima resolution. However, this discussion, too, was in fact not about the whole of this UN declaration, but about the objectives, commitments and chapters of the declaration relating to implementation and future action, and what this means for every country that joins this declaration. And the question is: is this, however, not to avoid an uncomfortable and very polarizing debate in our society? And is the issue of migration not like a hot poplar? Young Conservatives are ready for such an open discussion, for discussion. And I will set out our observations in the light of both the declaration and our vote on the draft resolution that has been tabled. In order to avoid any speculation, I will first of all say that the position of the New Conservative Party is that we consistently stand up for the fact that any decision on the issue of the reception of refugees is the responsibility of national states. The new Conservatives are firmly against the wrong... reception of migrants and so-called economic refugees. Here are a few points about the declaration itself and the parliamentary resolution, and then more broadly about the value and social context in which we are. We are clearly aware that the proposed UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration is a global document and does not apply only to the Euro-Atlantic community, as mentioned in the draft resolution. Uncontrolled mass migration is a global challenge affecting all continents of the world, especially Asia, Africa and Latin America. This can really be tackled not by isolation, but only by close international cooperation, by creating a global common understanding of the causes and consequences of the issue. We are aware that freedom of movement is human rights in accordance with Article 13(2) of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states that everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his own country. And it is a right that our citizens also enjoy when they travel to other countries, both within the European Union and elsewhere in the world. It is a legal migration governed by international law already in force in many regions of the world. And yet, maybe not in all... We also believe that providing fixed-term asylum to people at risk of death in their own country is a moral obligation of the international community, including ours. And we are still grateful to those countries of the world that at the end of the Second World War provided shelter to our countrymen who fled the war. However, the effects of the war are also uncontrolled mass migration. And here I come to the situation in Latvia for very important reasons. In order to understand in greater depth the prevailing - currently dominant - mood of Latvian society on the issue of migration, as well as thinking about the processes of international migration in the interests of our country, we cannot ignore Latvia's historical experience. Latvia has experienced brutal migration, thus targeted displacement of the population, ignoring the Geneva Convention on the Protection of Civil Persons in War 1949. And as a result of this, quite recently (it was only 30 years ago - in 1989 - when Latvians had only 52 percent of the base nation in Latvia) had a threat - and it had to look in the eye - to become a minority in their country. Currently, in 2018, the base nation accounts for 60.2 percent of the total population of the country. Colleagues, be aware that sociologically any nation or society is limited in the possibility of receiving and integrating other cultures! This will certainly be confirmed by scientists. And in the case of Latvia, this proportion has unfortunately been disrupted for a long time. There's a little derogation here. I would like to add that, with real awareness of Latvia's current acute challenges on integration issues, I would like to emphasise that we respect and appreciate all loyal fellow Latvians, because this is our whole country and this is our home. You see, one of the very important arguments that is voiced and that is in favour of this UN declaration is that Latvia must not fall out of the common position of the Baltic States and the Nordic countries. That is really important. But we already stand out in the region because, with the exception of Estonia, in all these countries, the base nation accounts for at least 80 per cent of the population. In Estonia it is 68 percent. But there, as we know, to achieve support, political support, this UN declaration was much more difficult than other countries in our region. And more importantly, in Europe, we are the only country with such a low basic share of the total population. This is not a secret for any of you, and for me, but also for the public: in many European countries, the issue of migration has led to the activation of more radical groups of society, including the coming of radical political parties to power, using precisely the subject of migration. And it has happened with a much more balanced ethnic composition. And that is why we must respond to the worrying mood of Latvian society. Our historical context must be taken into account. And - in the interests of the state - it must be able to explain this to the international community. And it is this background that needs to be borne in mind when it comes to the responsibility of the country to guarantee the security of its citizens, to preserve a European identity and to protect its values. In developing not only asylum seekers, but also our migration policy, we must take account of the disrupted demographic balance and the fundamentals of our societies, as well as the values of life. The UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration and its wider context were and should continue to be clarified and analysed together with the public, but unfortunately this has not happened. Although I would like to see some editorial amendments in the text of the draft parliamentary resolution, unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to table amendments to our own motion, but for a new resolution on our part, there is no time left. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš: “Why don’t you have time?” ) The new conservative basic call on the government nevertheless remains the same. We invite the government not to join the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration, justifying and explaining Latvia's historical situation on migration issues. And in conclusion, a little bit about the current public discourse now in Latvia on the subject of migration. Four years after the most serious migration crisis in the recent history of Europe in Latvia, the debate on migration issues is still very intensified and even radically polarising. This merely shows that the current ruling coalition has not taken this issue seriously and has not managed or wished to formulate a single long-term national policy on migration, refugees, re-migration, labour, market administration and similar issues, looking at them as a whole. National and political consensus on these issues has not been reached, but it is very necessary. These questions are being carried out aside in the name of the coalition's stability, allowing, on the one hand, the liberal forces to cultivate, perhaps, the attitude of pink glasses towards migration from the so-called third world countries and to promote it as unequivocally positive, but, on the other hand, also allowing national Conservatives to put down their political feathers from time to time, if this can be said by means of slogans, different assumptions and speculation, but not to do anything in practice at all. I personally cannot accept either a liberally uncritical attitude to this issue or a policy of raising fears from the National Alliance. I am in favour of a rational attitude which, on the one hand, means international dialogue, but on the other hand, also Latvian own homework to prevent any kind of external security threat. And all this with the aim of creating an integrated society. In addition, we must also be able to see the mistakes made by ourselves on migration issues, as we will say in the very recent example, when temporary residence permits were issued to people associated with the authorities of the Kremlin or the Russian military industry and similar profiles who have bought real estate in the immediate vicinity of Latvia's strategic objects. Such cases are unacceptable because they represent a very real, not some hypothetical, future threat to our country. And for this example, whatever you think about it, there is the most direct connection with today's discussion on migration. In this context, on this background, I call for the development and adoption by the end of 2019 of a country's medium-term strategy on migration control, asylum seekers' policies and related issues, taking into account the interests of our citizens, protecting our culture and language, while not denying our moral responsibilities and not holding our hearts in the face of human suffering. It would at least constitute a political consensus on these challenges and a basis for the future work of all of us. There should be independent experts in international law and migration policy outside political parties. The adoption of such a document would also be a very good basis for determining Latvia's position in any multilateral initiative regarding the range of these and related issues. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U227	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U228	Dear colleagues, As one of the Members who signed this draft resolution, I would like to speak on today's issue. You can't be all loved, because trying to make everyone in turn, turn your back on the people of Latvia. Therefore, without considering how such a document will affect Latvian society, economy and security, let the representative of Latvia sign the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration - it is a clear irresponsibleness in these circumstances. Why should we sign? Some considerations. Join the pact for reputation? "Oh or what will the neighbours say?" , I think we must finally change to Article 2 of the Satversme, “The sovereign power of the State of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia”, and only then will the international community respect us as a small but self-confident state and recognize not only as one of the three Baltic States, but will know that we are Latvia, the country that first has the interests of its citizens. Go on. Another consideration is to join us on behalf of our countrymen. In recent days, we have heard a lot of such arguments. The protagonists of the Pact claim that this document will force other countries to respect our Diaspora abroad as well. You are really sure that the UN non-legally binding pact, as the proponents claim, will force the United Kingdom, for example, to be more dear to our compatriots? The United Kingdom, which has decided to leave the European Union precisely because of migration issues? Let us assume that the Pact will succeed in forcing the United Kingdom to love migrants. However, this will mean that it will have to love not only our compatriots, but also absolutely all migrants who will come, regardless of their country of origin. In such a case, our fellow countrymen will not be so good. Go on. The next consideration is to join, because we want to put an end to the cynical business of human displacement and to the natural flow of illegal migrants. Once again, we are opposed to the pact's statement that this text does not give rise to any commitment. And we are in vainly waiting for the countries of origin of migrants to start a strong fight against the illegal human trafficking business. Here I would like to understand how this legally non-binding pact, which I advocate, will exceed the commitments already made by the countries of origin of migrants. But the illegal displacement of people is still taking place. Obviously, our contribution to Frontex cooperation is still too little. This Pact, although non-binding, as its promoters claim, also reminds developed countries of their participation in the Addis Ababa Action Programme. And that means that we will continue to invest in less developed countries - in the quiet hope that people will no longer flow from there. But if one of them leaves, then we will have to accept these people with open hands - in line with international commitments. Go on. Another consideration is to join as it will help to create a positive view of migration and reduce negative attitudes in our societies. Well, here, I think we've already beat almost everyone. We are already a good step ahead of many, because the Latvian public media has long been carrying out this public education programme, and we do not have to worry that at least one critical opinion will appear. On the contrary, under the heading “Maliu detector” for taxpayers’ money LSM.lv does not hesitate to express simply verifiable misstatement about the draft resolution of the Saeima signed by Members. What is it? Lithuania and Estonia have not been mentioned in this resolution, but the ‘Mexico detector’ claims to have been. Seeing the zeal with which all the preachers of multiculturalism and globalism have the time to defend this pact, it is clear that with its implementation in Latvia, we will have no problems. In Latvia everything will be introduced by 200 percent, even if it does not seem binding to anyone. Join us because we want to help? Article 35 (e) of the Pact provides for the allocation of start-up capital to migrants for the establishment of entrepreneurship. Do you, honourable colleagues, feel embarrassed, even before the people and business of Latgale to confirm this kind of commitment? Go on. Another consideration is to join by simply sending a signal. However, the Pact creates rules of international law. The Pact is binding because these norms of international law create a legal basis, become binding international law. National rules of law will also be translated through the prism of this Pact. But if that is not enough for you, I will mention a study by lawyers of the Institute of Human Rights and Human Rights, named by Swedish diplomat Raula Vallenberg, on the binding nature of the Pact, highlighting the positive role of the Pact in implementing the global instrument for regulating migration. The study concludes that global compact technical standards, commitments and principles will be implemented in national legislation, mutual agreements and international instruments containing binding legal provisions. And just as compact as it has come out in the future, it will also go to the existing rules, which will have to be interpreted in the context of this pact. The term "comprehensive" is translated as a multi-ambient union and takes place somewhere between law and politics. This is what the study says. So, colleagues, to make such a commitment, knowing that it is really a commitment, but then not to do it, because we cannot all do it, it would be irresponsible. And that's the end. I heard that many people are happy that... and comforts itself by strengthening national sovereignty in the Pact. But we have a different experience with that. I would like to remind you of the Mutual Assistance Pact between Latvia and the USSR signed by Munters and Molotov of 5 October 1939. Article 5 of the Pact states: “The entry into life of this Pact shall in no way prejudice the sovereign rights of the Parties, including, among others, their national facilities, their economic and social systems and military action.” I think I don't have to tell you what happened next. Dear colleagues, By signing this pact, Latvia will put a loop on its neck. A loose loop that will gradually become closer. It will be a slow suicide. We Members have received numerous letters in a few days. The Manabals.lv portal collects signatures, and it already has more than 2300 signatures. Fifty intellectuals have signed a letter with a request not to sign this pact, so we ask to respect Latvia, Latvia, Latvia and the Latvian people and indeed to express their views today, which do not support accession to this pact. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U229	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U230	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This is our first common 13. The parliamentary resolution, and I call for the vote to be 'no' for two reasons. This first joint resolution of the Saeima should not be a text containing a false falsehood. How can we talk about a new, better policy, good administration if we reject it by hand and choose that the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia can declare that the facts are not important to us. In the short text of the resolution, the information has been distorted or inaccurate on several points. I call for the 'no' vote to vote against populist policies! Contrary to the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration, the resolution does not undermine the right of countries to maintain their migration and border policies. Migration must be organised and safe, not left to self-flow". It was written yesterday in Twitter by Ilmārs Mežs, a representative of the International Organisation for Migration in Latvia. And he added that "responsible for misunderstandings" and expressed hope that "the Saeima would support it in the same way as Lithuania and Estonia". The President of the Constitutional Court Ineta Ziemele explained yesterday that the United Nations Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration calls for not demonising migration, but for addressing this problem and solving it with joint efforts, preserving each country's principles. I call for the motion for a resolution to be voted against, because I want to see Latvia in a week's time among the Member States of the United Nations that support this global declaration on migration. It should not be signed; it should only be supported by the conference. I want to see Latvia next to those 20 Member States of the European Union that have already expressed their support for the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration, not those five who do not support this declaration, or this Pact. I would invite the Government of Latvia, together with the Scandinavian countries and Lithuania, which all support the Declaration, to present a special opinion explaining our concerns about the Declaration and our special situation. By the way, the Lithuanian Government supported yesterday's accession to this declaration. And the Lithuanian Minister of the Interior will go to the UN conference. The Lithuanian Parliaments adopted a resolution that did not oppose the country's accession to the Pact and stressed that it was not a legally binding document. The Estonian Parliament also supported it on 26 November. If Latvia does not support the declaration, it will be adopted next week at the UN meeting. And in 2019 it will be adopted as a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly and will be binding on Latvia, as will other resolutions adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. But the attitude will remain. Opinions: “If the declaration is not legally binding, why support it?” The UN is a common cooperation system, and with its participation Latvia creates its own image in the international world. Latvian diplomats have worked tirelessly and gained respect and international recognition. They have evaluated and adopted by the UN General Assembly on behalf of Latvia dozens and even hundreds of resolutions, and we have trusted them. Many of them affect all of us. And when Latvia will soon start to seek votes among the UN countries to stand as a candidate at the UN Security Council in 2026-2027, we will be reminded of the attitude that we will have expressed with today's resolution. And that once is the key role that Latvia wants to play. It is a question of security in Latvia. Estonia will seek its votes already next year and will be able to become a member of the UN Security Council. We saw that it is an important platform for Lithuania's participation in 2014 and 2015: at the time of Russia's aggression in Ukraine, the Lithuanian voice helped to voice the UN's condemnation of Russia in a louder and bolder way. The draft resolution contains two basic arguments why Latvia should be opposed to this UN declaration. The first statement: because it may come in conflict with Latvian law. I would particularly like to respond to those who wrote to me as Members of the Saeima and who expressed concerns about this point. I can assure you that this UN declaration is not a legally binding document, and I even stress it! - leave matters to the Member States. So please be sure that Latvia is protected by Latvian laws, European and UN human rights documents and other international instruments. They will not deprive us of what we already have and will not impose any new responsibilities if we do not want to do so. And in view of the people's great interest in this issue and this debate, I will call on the Saeima's committees dealing with migration and cohesion to remember in the future those who have expressed interest and to listen to their views in shaping the specific policy of Latvia. And the last one. The draft resolution calls for the UN Declaration not to be adopted in the light of Latvia's (I quote) "public opinion on migration issues". We must continue this discussion here on the ground. And also those who are concerned, as well as those who have stood up for an inclusive society and responsible action by Latvia this week. If we do so, we will have already done the call for the UN Declaration. And thank you to those who are involved. We, the Saeima, have to work to make Latvian citizens feel confident about themselves, their families, about Latvia's growth and about Latvia's policy on migration issues. And the first condition for this to happen is that politicians in this situation, where there are many changes in the world, would not bring additional fear and hatred, which is a very bad advisor. I want to build a strong and safe Latvia and convince myself, so let us vote against this draft resolution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U231	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U232	Dear President, Honourable Members! I admire people who cannot catch things in general and talk about details. Mrs Voika, look through the window on the street, and you will see that Riga is the only capital in the world where half of the population are migrants who came here when Latvia was occupied - without the invitation of Latvian citizens, without the permission of Latvian citizens. Mrs. Ozola, I would like to remind you... That's what the National Association mentioned here... that already in 1996 the LNNK (as there was not yet National Association) drew up a Declaration on the occupation of Latvia, which was adopted by the Saeima on 22 August 1996, which accurately describes the problems caused by migration to Latvia and the threat to Latvian cultural identity. The Declaration calls on international organisations and countries on behalf of the people of Latvia: “... to help Latvia eliminate the consequences of occupation by providing political and economic assistance to Latvia...” Mrs Voika, this declaration was sent to the UN. What did you think the reaction was? How did the UN help us? Do you know how the UN and other nations helped us? They said: “Let us not talk about these things! If you want to join the European Union, we do not need to, let us now put down these problems." That was the reaction. Now this document. The impression is that many have not read it at all, including the Foreign Minister. Just a few articles... I looked at this place. The document is extremely controversial, legally uncorruptible and actually fatal to the Latvian people. Paragraph 9, let us call it Article 9: "It is important that the challenges and opportunities created by international migration... “ You See... ‘to unite us...’... So challenges and opportunities, huge opportunities, there's nothing bad about it. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - "We must give all citizens access to objective, factual and clear information on the benefits of migration... “ We must bring great benefits! ‘ ... to rebut misleading statements giving rise to a negative perception of migrants.’ Try to write that someone in Germany has raped a woman! And what will happen: you know, the liberals, ladies and gentlemen? That is exactly what Article 33 says. Censorship. ‘ Stop essential support for media that systematically promote intolerance." What, then, is intolerance? Let's say some district newspaper has written... Well, we don't have such a district newspaper here, but now... In the German local newspaper or in Sweden... You know that there are excessive, illegal crime in certain areas, we have heard about cases where the Ministry of the Interior prohibits the publication of statistics, we know about cases when the press is indicated, we know about the prosecutions that have been initiated. Article 33 is therefore precise: ‘Let us stop giving substantial support to media that systematically promote intolerance’. If there is intolerance to criminal offences, if there is intolerance to rape, to robbery, to theft, these media must not receive support. What do you mean, support? Not just material support; perhaps any discussion should not be allowed at all; it should not be published. I don't know further. Let our lawyers explain! Next. Excellent Article 13: “Safe, orderly and regulated migration benefits everyone.” Dear colleagues, Was there an unregulated migration in the FTA times? It was great, fantastic! As a result, as I said, Latvia is the only country in the world whose capital half of the population is migrants who have arrived here illegally in the context of the occupation of the USSR. And excellent Article 15 "Sustainable Development". Already in your subconscious sense, you will be able to live in caves if you do not have sustainable development. The objective of the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration is to realise the potential of migration in order to achieve the objectives of sustainable development. How do you achieve it differently - with technology, naive, or something? Only with migration. 23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A crown for everything! Dear lawyers, analyze this! Develop existing practices to facilitate the possibility for irregular migrants to undergo an individual test, which, depending on their circumstances, may lead to a legal status. After all, it is clear that all irregular migrants must be turned into legal migrants. How? Individual examination - discussions. During the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I was lucky to be in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the second day after this Balkan route was closed, through which you know about 800 000 refugees went. The borders were closed in Hungary and other countries. And those people who stuck... 200-300 people in one such camp were created quickly - also with NATO help. On the second day, we met a colleague from Estonia, a student trainee. And she said a very interesting thing: Of the less than 300 thousand of them, only one family who had fled the war was a family with children. All other men were strong men aged 20-30. All the documents were drowned or missing, and the name was Muhammad, and the father or father's brother or cousin was in Berlin, where they went. And all of them were extremely shocked that they were in some way detained here. These illegal immigrants, of course, are turning into legal immigrants by means of various interviews, because they cannot be sent back already. And this is all we're trying to do without any meaning... the overall situation in which Latvia is currently based. As early as 1996, we wrote to the United Nations that we should reach at least 75 percent, not 62 percent, as we now... There was no reaction. What, then, are these people who promote migration, honourable colleagues? The outstanding French philosopher and writer Jean Raspay wrote the great novel “Holy Camp” 45 years ago, in 1973, because he saw the vision of millions of refugees in Europe coming from North Africa and from other places and suppressing French culture, turning Christian churches into moshes in charity and so on. I advise everyone to read it themselves, just to quote what are then those who promote migration. Here it is said very precisely: “What I cannot accept and who drives me into the abyss of indignation is why so many wise people blindly, methodically, even cynically, on an exaggerated humanist altar help to bury some known Europe – let us avoid the term “eternal” because it discourages them. I ask myself the same question about all such and such legal associations, all leagues, think-tanks, subsidized offices, networks with infiltrated manipulators in all state gears, these mechanical petitioners, the media, which are so correct by consensus, and all these “smarts” who, day by day, cast their disgusting languages into the subconscious of the nation.’ We need to be aware of this. And the last one, colleagues. Why I call for support for this draft resolution - it is now clear, I think, for everyone who is familiar with these articles of the Declaration or the Pact that there are three main objectives. The first is to give the impression that migration is a good thing and is the guarantee of sustainable development of the country. The second is to promote planned migration and make illegal migration legal as far as possible. And the last is to phase out freedom of expression by marginalising those who oppose this migration. Let us support this resolution. Thank you for your attention. And the last quote. We live in the European Union. Schuman, the father of the European Union - and I also recommend that everyone read - said precisely what is waiting for us: the matrix of the community of nations can only be the same civilisation, so the community's idea of mixing peoples from different civilizations cannot have a purpose other than economic; otherwise there is a risk that the antagonist fundamentalist forces in it will be untapped. We see these burning cities, from the suburbs of Stockholm to Paris, and all these names of Schuman have been fulfilled. So that I call for our resolution and never join this hypocritical pact. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U233	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U234	Dear President of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate is not about Latvia's migration or asylum policy. It would be really great if our country were to actively develop its migration policy in the light of global challenges and long-term trends. But so far, several governments, perhaps fearing to touch such an emotional subject, have partly avoided doing so. The document that we are talking about today, as I said, is not about our country's policy. One of the opponents of the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration has said that, although not legally binding, this document refers to attitudes, intentions and plans. That is actually true. This document points to our attitude towards global cooperation with partners in the world in addressing global challenges. Is it our intention to remain the only one of the Baltic countries that allows fear to prevail over a responsible attitude that chooses to stand by when others try to work together on migration issues? Both Estonia and Lithuania have supported the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration. By the way, Mrs Stepanenko, it is not true that Estonia has not supported this. Parliament has supported it. If we do not support this, our partners, including in the European Union and NATO, the majority who choose to join this declaration will be sure to know which Baltic countries do not have the courage to take part in these common problems, which are, by the way, our ally and not our problems, as we do not have mass migration to the extent that it is now to our partners. Migration is an objective, global phenomenon, the existence of which is largely independent of the decisions of our Parliament. However, we also have a humane and mutual approach to tackling common problems. According to Mārtiņš Galenieks, the problem will not go away with a few thousand or even a few tens of thousands of men, women, and children. This problem will have to be addressed - and preferably as human as possible, so we need this declaration. It is not absolutely unrealistic that we will need such rules once and for all. I call on you to vote against the draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U235	Name to Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U236	Good afternoon! I am against this resolution for three reasons. Firstly, it is not necessary. Secondly, the text is of low quality and full of errors. And thirdly, it will limit Latvia's action in the fight against illegal migration. This resolution is not necessary, because the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration, the so-called Pact, is not a legally binding document. Latvia does not need to sign this. I will remind you that we will never sign anything. And neither do the Saeima have to ratify it. We only need to take this into account for further consideration. The UN's compact goal is to promote cooperation between all countries around the world to tackle migration flows. This is a global problem and requires a common solution. For example, one of the most important compact objectives is to ensure integrated, secure and harmonised border management. At the same time, the compact also mentions the fight against migrant smuggling, the procedures for screening migrants and other very important things for Latvia. Unfortunately, the draft resolution contains several factual errors. First. The compact is not against national... should be used with caution in On the contrary. This confirms: ‘... the sovereign right of States to define their national migration policies and to regulate migration within their jurisdiction in accordance with international law’. Second. The compact does not grant equal legal status to migrants, refugees and illegal immigrants. The compact highlights significant differences between these concepts. That is clearly stated in the text. Third. Once again, the draft resolution is wrong when it says that it is compact that migration is human rights. The compact merely confirms the already existing principle of universality of human rights. It's nothing new. The draft resolution claims that the compact conceals the risks posed by immigration. Anyone who has read that document knows that it is stupid. The compact comprehensively addresses all the risks associated with migration, in particular those related to illegal migration. And the end. The draft resolution states that several countries have not joined this pact, including Croatia. But Croatia has agreed to send its Minister for the Interior... So that the draft resolution simply contains a false fact! Do we now have the right in the Saeima to false information about its national position instead of Croatia? Several countries that are ready to accept this compact message for the time being have promised to continue to work on it. Under the leadership of Denmark, our neighbouring countries have agreed to participate in this negotiation process, including Lithuania, Estonia... Finland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Slovenia and the United Kingdom. By adopting this resolution, we are excluding Latvia from these negotiations. We're leaving the negotiating table. We deprive our government of the opportunity to participate in this process. We are sending out a message that we do not want to cooperate with others. The compact will go ahead - with or without Latvia. If we want to defend our national interests, we must participate in this dialogue. Since I have been in the Saeima for eight years, I have always tried to ensure that the Saeima's foreign policy is balanced, logical, thoughtful and serves our national interests. To put it simply, I have worked to prevent us from being ashamed of our actions and of the resolutions of the Saeima. I know that there are many new Members in this Saeima who want to engage in foreign policy. But I will remind you that this resolution will be translated into English - with all errors and inaccuracy. And you will have to defend it, and you will have to justify it. You didn't write it... You did not even have the opportunity to debate it or to correct it, because it was not dealt with in any committee. As has already been mentioned, the author of the draft resolution, who is chairing the Foreign Affairs Commission, prohibited the Foreign Affairs Commission from examining this issue at all. I think this is the case where we should hold on to the oath of the famous doctor, Hippocrates... it's better not to do anything, to do anything wrong... With this resolution, we will be doing bad for Latvia's foreign policy, and that is not in the interests of the people of our country. I recommend voting 'no' to this unnecessary, error-filled and negative draft resolution for Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U237	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U238	Dear colleagues, Migration is not a new phenomenon. It has always existed. And only so-called forced display, that is, forced displacement, which is always associated with military conflicts... A person is looking for where it is better, and that is practically all that he needs to know about the causes of migration. Young, talented, ambitious people always go from the province to the capital, while small countries go to the larger and richer. Now that the birth rate of developed countries is falling rapidly, but life expectancy is increasing, migration is practically the only way to complement labour market resources and maintain the European social model, above all the pension system. After World War II, countries that had lost a significant number of inhabitants entered into labour migration agreements with overcrowded and then poor countries. And so, for example, hundreds of thousands of Turks arrived in Germany. There is a widespread stereotyping that migrants are an intolerant burden on the social protection system. In fact, the situation is exactly the opposite. Immigrants are good for the economy; in cynically speaking, illegal immigrants are good for the economy twice. It is not for nothing that the legendary Alan Greenspens, the head of the US Federal Reserve System, has, by way of derogation, expressed his thanks in his farewell speech to millions of illegal immigrants who have made an invaluable contribution to the American economy as a modest, hard-working workforce ready to work as a penny and not to demand anything, which is not a dream of a rather frail businessman. However, irregular migration is, of course, associated with serious problems and risks. Violations of mass human rights, organised crime, trafficking in human beings, corruption... The aim of the UN Global Migration Treaty is not to promote migration, as the draft resolution has been presented by the rapporteurs, thus misleading the public, but to put it in order. The agreement offers solutions with which experts have been working for a long time. For example, clear conditions for legal migration are the best way to combat illegal migration. The main resources in today's world are human resources. The main competition is about the brain. And migration is one of the most effective ways to attract these resources. So this is not about refugees, Mr. Kirštein! As far as refugees are concerned, there are already a whole series of international instruments that are binding on us, including four European Union directives. This is precisely about migration. Because what acquires these resources wins global competition, and Latvia is definitely losing it at the moment. The UN Global Treaty is not legally binding, does not have legal consequences for states and does not in any way restrict national sovereignty. Thus, the support or rejection of the contract simply reflects the attitude of the State towards a global strategy in this area. Xenophobs, Eurosceptics, isolators, populists, adherents of various conspiracy theories - in short, all those who fear the increasing openness and diversity of today's world. To hide from them, they are prepared to build high fences on their borders and endure serious economic losses. Politicians like Viktor Orban or Vladimir Putin are against the Treaty. And the applicants of the draft decision invite us to join this company. We, the Group, believe that such an approach cannot be called patriotic. On the contrary. We believe that Latvia must work with this problem and be with the core of the European Union, with the Nordic countries, Germany, France, and actively work to put migration policy in order. I call on you to vote against this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U239	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U240	Dear colleagues, There are many good proposals and ideas in the UN's global compact for safe, orderly and regulated migration on how to deal with the migration problems that have hit us, and how cooperation should be carried out at transnational level in this context. But the main concern is that by joining a compact, Latvia's sovereign right to implement migration policy may then be limited. What causes the UN's compact concern now, but especially in the future? Point 23(i) of the Compact provides for the development of existing practices to facilitate the possibility for irregular migrants to undergo an individual examination in accordance with clear and transparent criteria. It can, depending on the circumstances, acquire legal status, especially in cases involving children, young people and families. Thus, legal and illegal migration is not separated from each other, but it contributes to making migrants of illegal status legal and increases the rights of irregular migrants. It can be said that for Latvia with more than 40 illegal migrants it is not topical in the last year, but in the circumstances of a new migration wave to Europe or in the case of flows across the country's eastern border it can be topical. What are the possible legal consequences of a UN migration compact if Latvia joins? The following main sources of international law have legal consequences in international law: international conventions or international treaties, international customs (as evidence of general practice) recognised as rights, general principles of law recognised by nations. Consequently, international treaties are not necessarily the only sources of international law with legal consequences. Points 7 and 15 of the UN migration compact state that this is a non-binding framework for cooperation. But will this document really not be legally binding on countries? Following its adoption on 10 or 11 December, Morocco will be able to see it as a codification of international customs law, which brings together national general practices - one of the sources of international law. Therefore, compact countries that support it will be legally binding. The UN migration compact also includes a section on compact deployment by UN Member States (points 40 to 47). For example, a compact point 41 states that we countries will introduce this global compact in our own countries, as well as at regional and global level. The regional level points to the fact that a compact, most likely, will also be incorporated into the policy documents of the European Union and the Council of Europe, as well as into legislation - directives, regulations, decisions - and will be taken into account in the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights. The website of the European Commission on 14 November 2018 contains information on this UN migration compact. The European Commission notes that a compact adoption will take place in the form of consensus or voting on 10 or 11 December. The next step will then be as follows: the UN General Assembly will be asked to adopt this compact formalised in the form of a resolution. This confirms all the more the above that the UN migration compact will become a stock of legally binding international norms. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, yes, has indicated that the resolutions of the UN General Assembly are not legally binding on States. Most resolutions are indeed not legally binding, but there are so-called large UN resolutions, which are clearly to be seen as a collection of international customs law and which make their content legally binding on countries. How can the criteria determine whether a UN resolution constitutes a collection of international customs law? It should include a sufficient number of regulatory provisions, such as how states should act, how to define one concept or another; it sets out specific principles according to which states should act; it should contain sufficiently clear wordings to define specific regulations or principles. And the compacts clearly list 23 objectives and set out actions for their implementation. The compact also includes a section on its implementation by the Member States (points 40 to 47) and sets out and formulates 10 key principles on which the compact is based. In this case, the UN resolution is to be seen as a collection of international customs law if most or all UN Member States participate in the drafting and adoption of the resolution, indicating a collective legal view and the intention to give the resolution a legislative nature. All UN member states, with the exception of the United States, have participated in the process. The compact will be adopted at an intergovernmental conference on 10 or 11 December this year. Point 15 of the compact establishes the consensus nature of cooperation, point 8 states that the compact expresses the collective commitment of the Member States. In paragraphs 9 and 10, the compact shall reflect the common understanding of the Member States, in paragraph 9 and in paragraphs 13 to 15, the unity of the objectives of the Member States with regard to migration. So if Latvia joins the UN migration compact, Latvia will be legally bound not as an international treaty, but as a codification of international customs law on migration issues. Thus, the UN migration compact will limit Latvia's sovereignty in the area of migration policy. Latvia does not have to join the United Nations migration due to the good work that Latvia has done and is doing as a member of the UN and the European Union. Financial support for refugee and migrant bases outside the European Union, patrolling at the external border of the European Union in the Mediterranean and protecting the eastern border of the European Union is also possible in cooperation with other countries without any compact.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U241	Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U242	Dear colleagues, I see that our negotiations have already reached the middle, and I also ask for the floor because my colleague Ritvars Jansons has just spoken - very competently analysed. I would like to speak as a researcher who has participated in a migration study, which was developed specifically for policy-makers. I regret that this study has not yet been published. I took part in this section and I would just like to make a few comments, because I think everyone is tired of the topic. And I'd like to talk a little bit more from the depth... As Mr Kirštein quoted some authors. It is very important for us to see that this vote today is actually not a good mind or a bad mind vote, and I regret that our foreign minister is not here, but there will certainly be representatives of the ministry who will speak. This time it is a question of conscience, because the situation on migration in Latvia is very heated. Four days before the discussion and the vote, a document appeared in Latvian in the highest legislator of the country. This, in my opinion, is a great moral violation: to take a qualitative political decision on a very poorly prepared United Nations text. That's very bad! This is twofold in many ways, as the previous speakers have already emphasised. My message will not be so much about the draft resolution tabled by the National Alliance, nor will I very much criticise this very bad document. I would like to offer you a look at this issue or at the depth of the problem. I want to refer to a very well-known author in research - Claude Levi-Stross, anthropologist and excellent researcher. When UNESCO was founded in 1951, he was asked to write the UNESCO memorandum. After the Nazi defeat of Germany, after the Second World War, the entire world society was grateful for this humanist memorandum that all nations, peoples' cultures, languages are equal and so on. After 20 years, the scientist Claude Levi-Stross was invited to report in the 20th year of UNESCO. In 1971, he read a report that was heard without understanding. No one came to him at any time, and there was also very little. In 2005, he read the same report and experienced standing. You cannot experience this report yet, find it. There are fragments on the Internet, there are, of course, more extensive his research. The main idea he said in 1971 and repeated in 2005... because every idea is very slow to the consciousness... His ideas of how Europe will change demographically were based on a statistical analysis of the Muslim communities that had already arrived and lived in Europe. We are in front of this fact with a document. Latvia participates in migration policy and meets all requirements. Just in 2015, we saw that Merkel, for whom no one had given a mandate, said “Welcome!” . And what did we experience in Europe as a whole? Latvia also participated in this project. And we have to see that no document is innocent, that it is not accepted for fun. I... of course, for good reason... I would say that Latvia must participate and sit at the negotiating table where our destiny is decided. But Latvia should not join a very poorly prepared document, which can have very far-reaching consequences. And Latvian society remembers very well what we felt on our skin six years ago. We need to see that immigrant societies, languages, demand their rights more and more. And this UN document also provides for this. In 2012, we experienced a language referendum in Latvia. The Latvian nation does not have to prove and tell anyone what it meant to us. Dear colleagues, I call on you to vote not because of a clear, good or some other mind, but because of your conscience, because Latvia must not commit suicide. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U243	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U244	The United Nations has 193 Member States. 193 Member States! And it is believed that if this document is adopted and put into practice, then it will not solve any questions about the migration of Europeans to the African continent. This will be one-way migration from the so-called third world countries to the developed countries of Europe, North America and the Pacific. It will not be in Somalia that special support mechanisms will be put in place to regulate migrants' rights, opportunities, social security, but only in Europe, North America and the Pacific countries, which have a good standard of living. And it is worth thinking about it now, too, when arguments are raised about countries that join or do not join this document. On the other hand, there are many United Nations Member States, such as Ethiopia, Eritrea, which are certainly... are considered rather than addressed by countries that pose migration challenges. The question of Estonia is also, in my opinion, out of place. Let us wait for the elections to the Estonian Parliament and see which political forces will have been elected in a few months' time in the Estonian Parliament. I agree that the next Estonian Parliament will also be fundamentally different from what it is today. This legally binding or non-binding party. Colleagues Ritvars Jansons explained this in very detail, but I call for particular attention to be paid to the fact that the document says "we are committed" in more than 40 places. If a country undertakes to deal with one or the other issue, this means that it further affects policy planning documents, long-term development strategies. It cannot be said that it will be legally non-binding if it actually affects national policies implemented. And it is sad that the language of these documents, as is often the case, is difficult to understand for most of society. And I think it has been deliberately done. Determinedly done to manipulate society so that it is difficult for society to go into these documents! I will quote just one paragraph 38, which does not even really make it clear what is meant in what situation, and that will then be possible to break down even those who would theoretically like to apply that point. Point 38 states: "We are committed to helping migrant workers at all levels of skills by ensuring access to social protection in the target countries and by enabling the transfer of applicable social benefits and wage-related benefits to countries of origin or when they decide to work in another country." It is not easy to understand whether this is simply about migrants or just about migrant workers. At what point are social benefits paid from the state budget? Should they continue to be received when a person has already moved back to his country of origin? These and many other points in the UN Pact on Migration are unclear, complex - I think it is consciously difficult! - to make it difficult for society to perceive them. Latvia has a painful experience with the migration of the USSR time, and we know what that means for culture, language, and what social problems it causes. Research has even shown how crime has increased in the territory of Latvia since Latvia experienced mass immigration. But these are issues that are absolutely not addressed in this UN migration compact. There is no question of how a nation that is a host nation can maintain its culture, its traditions, maintain its security, which is fundamentally important issues, especially if we are looking at the local level. Mrs Voika mentioned that she wanted a safe Latvia. I think we already live in a safe country. Unlike other European countries which have experienced migration from third countries in recent years, Latvia can be pleased that we have seen global terrorism. But many countries - Belgium, France and Germany - have not been so happy... so that these waves of terrorism enter the scene. Terrorism brought by immigrants (whether from Morocco or from other parts of the world) has killed many because many Europeans. In this situation, I do not believe that Latvia should continue the path that other European countries have wrongly chosen. In conclusion, I would like to say that 13. The Saeima is an opportunity to ensure that any attempts to legalize, promote or support mass immigration from Latvia are rejected. This Saeima has the opportunity to turn Latvia's policy on this issue fundamentally in a different direction, to be with those countries that see their development as a national, sovereign country without mass immigration, which primarily care for their countrymen, including those who could potentially return to Latvia from emigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U245	Thank you. Colleagues, I must inform you that the list of speakers is longer than you see in your tab. After Julia Stepanenko has applied to debate Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševica. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U246	Madam President, Colleagues! I, like all of you, carefully read the United Nations migration compact and can say with certainty that this 34-page document with 23 tasks does not at all threaten Latvia's independence and sovereignty. I believe, however, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia should have translated and distributed this document to the Members of the Saeima at the time before the representatives of our government on 10 and 11 December will be going to Marrakech Morocco to attend an international conference. However, the UN Global Pact on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration is only a proof of the truly irreversible processes that affect the entire globe, and of which we have no possibility of isolation in Latvia even within the framework of a national state under the EU and NATO umbrella, as, a few years ago, a well-known Latvian... UN expert demographer Ilmar Forest, in subSaharan Africa, will produce a billion people without drinking water and food. Every year, the population of South-East Asia is multiplying in such a way that it would be sufficient for 100 countries of Latvian size. Economically, this region is also a huge workshop of human industry, on which we will be, at best, one smart machine table. In these extraordinary circumstances, I look forward to the good will, experience and competence of the United Nations. Of course, there are also weaknesses in the UN, such as bureaucracy, even corruption and, above all, its financial guardianship from the US. However, the United Nations, just before the Manhattan skyscraper was built, provided assistance to six million refugees in Europe, including from the Baltic States. The UN is dealing with huge humanitarian crises in India, Congo, Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Somalia, and delivering food and medicine to hotspots. United Nations personnel risk their lives by saving their children from hunger and epidemics. We don't have to sink into isolation. I think that by addressing the UN Pact on Migration, the Latvian Parliament will not have an internal popularity or an external understanding. It will simply be the wrong signal that we want to go out of the context of a large international organisation. It is wrong to believe that the United Nations can never help us with anything. Please do not support the proposed document.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U247	The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U248	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to remind you once again of what we will ultimately vote on today. We will not vote in favour of opening any borders for migrants from the so-called third world countries. We will vote in favour of a specific resolution, the text of which is available to you and which was written by people who today, as I can see, are going to vote in favour. And it is precisely these same people who are going to establish a government where the Foreign Minister's post is at least now intended for the representative of the New Unity, Mr Rinkēvičs, who was ready to go to Marrakech and sign this compact. And in general, listening to today's debate and rhetorical style, I remembered my first profession, journalism, where... where there is such a division - all journalism is divided into quality and so-called yellow. And the line between quality and yellow is that quality journalism is based on proven and reliable facts, objective interpretation and competition between opinions. And what is happening today - that is something I can't appreciate... compared to the same yellow journalism... as opposed to a yellow policy based on manipulation and gross interpretation of facts. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “What are you?” ) I am ready to answer some orators for their doubts. Well, for example, Ritvar Janson did not have a clear compact point 23 (i). I would like to read it, however, because I do not read it here, I do not read it here, I see it here, I do not see it here, it is not good for a responsible politician. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Janson’s intermediate call.) This paragraph reads: “... to develop the existing... “ Existing! - "the practice of facilitating the possibility for irregular migrants to undergo an individual examination on the basis of clear and transparent criteria which, depending on the circumstances, can be obtained... “- not necessarily get! - "legal status, particularly in cases relating to children, young people and families, thus reducing vulnerability and giving countries the opportunity to clarify their population." Where is it written here that this will happen? Another speaker, Mr Dombrava, was not clear at paragraph 38, which states: 'We are committed to helping migrant workers at all levels of skills... “ And so forth. I would like to point out to you that there is a special reservation in this compact that we should not forget that any country in the modern world is not only the country that accepts migrants, but also the donor country. Latvia is currently such a donor. Hundreds of thousands of people have moved from our country to other countries. And you do not want to support the point that we are going to make for our Diaspora, the same Diaspora as you were taking care of during the pre-election campaign (Dep. Dombrava: “Ours are not illegal migrants!” ), better conditions in the international sense. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Dombrava: “The Treaty on European Union determines this!” ) The principle of “reading here, not reading here” cannot be the style of operation of the Latvian national parliament. I am very, very much calling on you to be responsible and to read carefully the conclusions of the section “Flee detector” of the Latvian public media portal LSM.lv, where, yes, there is a small mistake, Mrs Stepanenko. But the other seven points are true. I call on you not to turn today's sitting into an inspection of the detector of lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U249	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U250	Dear colleagues! We have so far been one of the safest countries in Europe in terms of organised crime involving illegal migrants or acts of terrorism caused, possibly, by illegal migrants from the Middle East or Africa. I, like our constituents, would definitely like this to remain so, so that we continue to be one of the safest countries. There are some tragic examples in Europe: Belgium, France, Sweden and others. In all these countries, as well as in England, the level of crime in cities with a high concentration of migrants is much higher than in cities with their main citizens. A second aspect that I would like to draw all your attention until we can fully ratify the European Social Charter and make sure that our own citizens do not have to get out of a funny GMI, until we can pay for the first, second, third and other family country allowance for their first, third and other children, at least to the extent that it is paid in our northern neighbourhood, until we can take care of the people of Latvia, we cannot even talk about the possibility of receiving additional migrants. Already today, the minimum reception of migrants by the European Union is only possible to us to a limited extent, and this solidarity with Europe means huge expenditure to us. But, of course, this must be done because we do not want to become the second European Hungary. For Germany, which is one of the most desirable destinations for asylum seekers and has received a large number of them, statistics show that last year, 27 murders or murders were committed by illegal migrants, while 447 murders or murders were committed directly by legal or residence-approved migrants. It is in Germany, both in Kemnica and in other cities where there are large refugee centres, that there are regular protests and various demonstrations where refugees demand a standard of living similar to that of the local people who have worked all their lives to achieve it. According to the Swedish edition of Politico... which has also accepted a large number of political and economic refugees from African countries and various countries of the Middle and Far East, who were previously considered to be one of the safest European countries, and which had on average four killings per year in the 1990s, carried out in a group and with firearms, are now well above the average of Western Europe - 40 killings per year on average, carried out in a group and with various weapons. As the politico edition points out, firings in Sweden have become so common that they don’t even enter the headlines anymore. I understand that it may sound like fear, but if we now try to build up a brick, do we need it to be used by people with the best intentions? This will certainly happen if we approach this issue as lightly as in this pact. And finally. Look at the countries that have refused to sign this international declaration: the United States, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Switzerland and several others - all who have been most directly exposed to the negative effects of illegal migration. If we are on the list of some countries that allow these illegal immigrants to be resettled, then the next step is that we will be forced to leave the Schengen area. And our next huge expenditure will be the renewal and construction of all border inspection posts, because then the flow of these welcome refugees to so-called social-secure countries, such as Austria itself, will simply be unstoppable and we will need to reintroduce border controls at a moment. Please let us be sensible and support the draft decision on the Saeima Resolution on Non-Participation with the UN Global Pact on Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U251	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U252	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I won't hold you long. I wanted to talk a bit about paperwork today. In my opinion, we are living in a time where we believe in more paperwork than action policies. We believe that by signing the Istanbul Convention, men will cease to have their wives, fathers, children. In fact, they don't know what the Istanbul Convention is... Those who do it. This can only end if we, along with those who see it, who do not turn away, who engage, who defend it. It's also with this compact. We think so: we will sign an indulgentity, and then the problems of migration in the world will be reduced. It's such a prayerful thing... instead of thinking about action policy! Because at the moment we are being saved from mass immigration only because our economy is not on the same level, our standard of living is not such as to be a problem in Latvia as well. If we raise the standard of living together, I hope in this parliamentary term, then this problem will be really important. And then we're not gonna get a compact. We, the 100 people who have been delegated, will have to decide here. And it would be right to start predicting it now and decide now what will be in 10 or 20 years' time, because otherwise it may be too late. Trust in paperwork... I say, the era of paper, just like the Aunt John Streič in his film “Limousine John’s Night Color”: “Now the main papers.” But its belief in paper and not in policy of action - it is not only a target-free but also very dangerous in the history of the world. In 1928 the French Foreign Minister, Aristid Brian, in a joint initiative with US Secretary of State, Frank Keloga, encouraged and the world concluded the Brussels-Kelog Pact, a pact that prohibits war, a pact that said in 1928: From now on, countries must no longer use war as an instrument of mutual relations. Europe was groaning, Latvia joined as well. Germany in that pact... were in the composition of the signatory States. Five years later Adolf Hitler came to power, and six years later World War II began. Instead of seeing the obvious revanchism that was formed at that time in Germany, the dance tango in Paris, enjoyed life and thought that our entire Europe was protected by the Brian-Kelog Pact. It's dangerous. I call for the policy of action to be discussed once again. Migration is a very important issue. We, 100 Members, are here to talk about this, to plan and to make decisions, not to believe in paperwork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U253	Thank you, colleagues. As the order of speakers changed, the name is given to Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševica, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U254	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, Thank you from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the opportunity to draw your attention to some facts and considerations. The first speaker said today: it is unforgivable that there has been a vacuum of information about this compact for so long and that the public has not received any public explanation. Let me draw your attention to the fact that this compact development started already in 2016. And in response to the very acute migration crisis at that time, on 19 September 2016 a meeting of UN Heads of State and Government was convened to discuss the challenges of international migration and the need to develop a common global response to control migration. The summit unanimously endorsed the New York Declaration on Refugees and Migrants, which commissioned the development of such a global migration compact. Latvia was represented at the State President's level at the summit, which took part, supported and underlined in its address Latvia's commitment to cooperate with other UN member states and other stakeholders in order to strengthen the management of international migration. The President's speech was and is open to the public and was also discussed in Latvia at the time. More! Two information reports were prepared, which are also currently publicly available on the Cabinet's website, and in 2016 and 2018 respectively were prepared by the Ministry of the Interior. And, for example, the information report, which was examined on 23 January, says that it is planned that the first global compact project will be drawn up in 2018, that discussions will continue until July, and that approval will be planned for December. Against this background, it is particularly important that the European Union continues to speak with one voice on issues that are truly important for the compact development of global migration. Thereafter, Latvia's opinion was highlighted. And I will quote: "Latvia welcomes the process of preparing a compact global migration, agreeing that the European Union needs to speak with one voice on issues that are important for compact development. In Latvia's assessment, a compact must include a comprehensive and complex set of measures that could successfully overcome migration challenges.” Therefore, it is not true that the information was not available, but the question is where we draw attention to some information, where politicians also choose to discuss it, or the vast fear of the word starting with the letter "m". As soon as there is a document on migration, it is panic and fear that are cultivated and spread. The information is available. But logically, the new government and the new Saeima should have taken the decision on who to attend the Marrakech Conference from Latvia on 11 December. But we know that in the Saeima, in this Saeima, the Foreign Affairs Commission has so far met only for one sitting, where the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs offered to report, inform and discuss this compact, but the Commission did not differ. And let me also say that it is precisely now that these discussions are taking place in a very large number of European countries. In Lithuania, the decision was taken on Tuesday in the Lithuanian Parliament, in Estonia last week. Even in countries where there have just been elections, the debate is now. Therefore, it is also not reasonable to say that we have been particularly late in doing so. The Estonian Parliament commissioned the government to join the compact. The Lithuanian Parliament also decided that we should join and engage in this joint fight against illegal, unregulated migration, which is a threat to us. This process is very similar to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals or Agenda 2030. And it should be stressed that the various recommendations for action quoted and mentioned are such a broad catalogue that summarises the best possible ways of action and calls on each country to do as much as possible as it deems necessary. I would like to say thank you to Mr Kalniņa, who has already outlined one more problem precisely. The draft resolution contains a number of misstatements, inaccuracy and openly distorted facts. That too, I think, does not honor the Latvian Parliament, even if the idea is sympathetic - that it does not want to join this compact, approve a document that consists of false facts. Well, for example, the fifth sentence of the draft resolution, or paragraph, says that the Pact is expressing unacceptable messages to a national state and weakening the role of national states. In fact, the UN's global migration compact emphasises the role of national states in decisions on immigration issues. As a non-binding instrument, this cannot undermine national decisions in any way, but paragraph 15 points out that sovereign national decisions are at the heart of compact development. Paragraph 6 says that the compact provides for equal legal status for immigrants, refugees and illegal immigrants, but on the contrary, the compact highlights significant differences between these concepts. See, for example, a compact paragraph 4, which states: ‘... migrants and refugees are different groups subject to different legal frameworks. Only refugees are eligible for special international protection...” In the Compact, there are no claims that migration is, even legally, human rights. No way! On the contrary! And there are also several other mistakes that have been made here from the tribunal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule: “Errors can’t be heard!” ) Mr Kirstein mentioned, for example, the restriction of freedom of expression. The compromise talks about the need for countries to be able to address hate speech, and preventing hate crime is our goal, just as our Constitution also provides. Freedom of speech does not include hate speech. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) And Mr Janson referred in his speech to Mrs Rudevska's opinion on the compact. It has to be said that the global adoption of the UN's compact resolution by the United Nations General Assembly does not mean making it legally binding, nor does it constitute a normal rule of law. Indeed, there is an incorrect explanation here of what the UN General Assembly resolutions are. There are no such major resolutions and small resolutions. The resolutions of the UN General Assembly are not legally binding, except for three very specific types of resolutions. This concerns the adoption of the UN budget, the structure of the UN, the approval of the results of the elections and the admission of new Member States. And resolutions of the UN General Assembly do not create or codify international customs law. The formation of international law is determined by quite other elements and resolutions are not binding, as has been confirmed by the UN International Court of Justice on several occasions. Finally, why should Latvia join. I do not think isolation from the fact that migration is a global threat and a threat to Latvia, too, is a solution. In contrast, a joint structured action with other European countries is proposed to control migration. And I believe that it is this historical experience that obliges us to act actively and not to watch passively. And, by the way, the Lithuanian Parliament's resolution or declaration also makes reference to the very painful historical experience that encourages us to work actively today so that nothing like this happens again. What are the risks if Latvia does not join? We will become very lonely, especially between the Baltic and the Nordic countries, as the other Baltic and Nordic countries have already announced accession. The Lithuanian and Estonian parliaments have decided this at parliamentary level. ( Internouncing call.) Of course, there is also the question of more consistency. If we want to be very lonely about migration issues, about finding common solutions, then why do we expect us, in turn, to be very much supported, for example, by providing assistance within the framework of cohesion policy? Why? And that would really be comparable... if we look at a small village with seven great families. And they say: there is a risk of new people coming, so we sign an agreement that we must behave politely and control borders. And then one answers, "No, no, you're stupid, you don't have to do it." We should never do that! The second day, though, asks: ‘ Am I allowed to cut my wood into your woods, and to gather my potatoes into your soil? Is that logical? Instead of working together for a common result... That is why I really ask honourable Members not to support this draft resolution containing the wrong facts today and, without supporting it, to give Latvia the opportunity to join together with the other Baltic and Nordic countries with an explanation of opinion prepared by the Danish Government, which would enable us to join the Baltic... together with the other Baltic and Nordic countries... clarification of the view on this Global Migration Declaration; emphasising that the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration recognises the need to address the root causes of unregulated migration; emphasising that this Global Migration Declaration is a non-binding instrument; stating that the UN Global Declaration on Safe, Ordered and Regulated Migration respects national sovereignty and reaffirms the sovereign right of states to define their national immigration policies and stresses that the Declaration does not establish human rights towards migration. We want to emphasise, together with the Baltic States and the Nordic countries, that it is important that borders are managed; that the current obligation of all countries to expect and receive back all their nationals who do not have the right to reside in other countries is clearly recognised; that there are legal and practical differences between refugees and migrants (the legal remedies available to refugees under international law are different). And so that it is also stressed that the list of possible options that complement each country's commitment - these are just examples that can be used to implement the declaration, and each country would decide how and whether to use these examples. I would very much like Latvia to be able, together with the other Baltic and Nordic countries, to join this explanatory declaration, which, by its very nature, also looks at and includes all the concerns that have been voiced here today, thus strengthening them in an international context, rather than remaining alone or pretending to have no problem. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U255	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U256	Dear colleagues, Mrs Golubeva isn't probably on the ground right now, but... I really don't like the impreciseness. I would like to make a correction. She said today that I said that Estonia has not supported this pact. But there was nothing like that in my speech. In my speech, it was said that LSM.lv “In the Melu detector” was wrongly reflected in the information. So the experience of Lithuania and Estonia in the draft parliamentary resolution is not mentioned. Thank you. And I'll be a little late for your time. I only have four minutes left. The threat. For fear. We have heard a great deal today that those who do not want to support this UN pact are trying to play for fear. But what have we just heard from Mrs. Kalniņa-Lukashevica? We heard the danger of losing money, of remaining alone. This actually reminds me of the 2015 mechanism for forced re-allocation of refugees, when we heard exactly the same thing. Both for our compatriots abroad who live there and for us to understand, because there are a lot of people out of our country who live in a foreign country, and for us to feed on European money and we will then be cut off that money. Simply, history is receding! But when it comes to freedom of expression... Colleagues, I don't know what a hate crime in this letter is, but the letter has disappeared... This letter comes from the people of Latvia who have asked the Saeima not to support this pact. And it has slipped somewhere in Saeima's corridors. Fortunately, the writers of this letter have copied this letter as well as the fact that it was received yesterday at 13.36 in the Saeima and are still waiting for Mrs Golubeva's resolution. And this letter is signed by no more than 841 people. I was only able to receive this letter because its writers had copied both the signatures and the letter. The authors of the letter believe and demand that the decision on migration issues and issues is and remains a direct decision of our own people, and call on the Saeima to give priority to economic, educational, health and social protection issues in order to reduce poverty and social inequalities in the country, to achieve an increase in the population of the country. And it is a request not to support this pact today by supporting the draft parliamentary resolution on non-acceptance with the Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U257	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U258	Dear colleagues, We are making very important choices today. I think this debate is extremely important. And there is one thing that we all need to understand: this phenomenon of migration has now become so great in the world that clear solutions need to be found. Finally, the United Nations is working on such solutions. A new package, new international agreements, which say that in the future this problem is no longer just a problem for the beneficiary country, but that this problem must also be addressed in those countries where migration takes place. And this new document talks about the need for international cooperation and forms a new framework for international cooperation. What is Latvia doing today, and what are we doing today? We say that we do not want to engage in this framework of international cooperation. We are simply voting against. Is this resolution anything... What does it solve? No, no, no. Nothing. Absolutely nothing! We simply say that Latvia does not want to participate, does not want to participate. I would like to say that the scenario proposed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs adds to this Latvian vote the motivation of Latvia on how... what Latvia supports or does not support... that it opens up a completely different opportunity. It opens up the possibility that Latvia cooperates by very clearly stating what is acceptable to Latvia and what is unacceptable to Latvia. And so Latvia returns to the family we really own - the Nordic and the Baltic countries. A similar debate has been held in Denmark, Sweden, Estonia and Lithuania. In Estonia, they caused almost a government crisis, which was balanced by the Estonian Parliament. But, for example, the Danish Government, together with other Nordic countries, is working on such a document. And it is a great opportunity to make it clear what we have accepted and what we cannot accept on this issue and to work together with other countries to address this extremely important issue. I mean, that's the key. I am calling for this draft resolution not to be supported today, but in view of the concerns and positive conclusions expressed in this debate (I must say that everyone has said that there are so many good things in this global compact), to include it in this motivation letter and to allow the government to work and adopt such a document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U259	Please! Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U260	Dear colleagues, Do not support this draft resolution, not because there are mistakes or shortcomings there, which have already been mentioned in detail by my colleagues from different political groups from this trouble. I will not support it as a very archaic and very far-reaching document from the European values of the 21st century. However, we must thank the authors of the draft resolution for lighting our political circles, and we must also thank the UN for the fact that it has hit the nerves of Latvia's politics. This would be particularly important for the new Members who have only just recently entered into office. Better now, 13. At the beginning of the Saeima, see literally face to face, rather than read in the newspaper columns those depths of xenophobia and hypocrisy that clearly... clearly position and prepare for the next debate. But on the draft resolution, vote 'no'!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U261	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U262	Ladies and gentlemen! A representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs comes here and scares us: we will remain in isolation, we will be deprived of money, we will not be able to take part in the Olympic Games. Every time we want to make a decision in the interests of our country, not another country, we are afraid of isolation. This thinking must be changed - and start with this hall! This hall must start to think in the interests of our national state! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also feared once: if we do not go to EXPO Milan, we will not be protected by Italian destroyers in our airspace. We are afraid of the interests of our national state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U263	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Please call me! Let us vote on the draft decision on the Saeima Resolution on Non-Participation with the UN Global Pact on Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I must inform you of the scheduled hearing - Members' questions and answers. Members Cabanov, Pimenov, Agešin, Dolgopolov and Adamson have asked the question “On Pre-school Education of Minorities”. The question is addressed to the performer of the Minister of Education and Science. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The Minister is unable to attend the oral response and will therefore not do so. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Urbanovičs, Tutins and Krišāns submitted the question “On the purchase of passenger trains”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U264	Hello, colleagues! As you know, the purchase of passenger trains has ended. Next. This time the buy-in is about 225 million. Several of the tenderers have already acquired the validity of the procurement procedure. I would remind you that there was another purchase of passenger trains in 2014, for 150 million. You feel the difference, huh? I will also let you know that in 2013, the Estonians bought 38 pieces for 78 million. The differences are huge. In this context, we have a question for the Minister of Transport - to provide justification for such costs. That's one thing. The other thing is to tell you how the plans that are currently being developed (that we will have some direct current lines, some AC lines) will be used effectively. Next – ask about the financial impact on the state budget and the Latvian Railways... The group's budget, how it will be financed...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U265	Thank you. Thank you. Time for motivation is over. ( Internouncing call.) Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! Please check-in mode! Name for the statement to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U266	Colleagues! Five minutes later, in the Yellow House - the establishment of a group of Members for cooperation with the Japanese Parliament.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U267	Dear colleagues, Forty years ago, on December 4, our colleague Gatis Eglitis celebrated his anniversary and we greet him. (Applause) Thank you. Name to a member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U268	Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Mārtiņš Bondars, Andrejs Judins, Rihards Kols, Māris Kučinskis, Ainars Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Daniels Pavļuts, Ēriks Pucens, Jānis Reirs, Ivans Ribakovs, Edgars Rinkēvičs... Ivan Ribakov... Here, Edgars Rinkēvičs, Ingun Ryken... Here... and Edmund Teirumnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-06-PT13-508-U269	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
