ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Everyone here! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 8 March 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and includes a statement “On the case of violation of the Code of Ethics of Members of the Parliament of the 12. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Let’s start with me! There is no objection!’ ) There are no objections. The order of business has been amended. The Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting to include a statement entitled ‘On the approval of the parliamentary mandate of Mr Valtera Dambes 12.’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the meeting “On the approval of the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate, while Members elected from the list of Greens and Farmers’ Union candidates in the Vidzeme Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Upenieks, Dzintars, Dauge, Adamovičs and Straujuma ask for changes to the agenda of the sitting and draft laws “Amendments to the Law on General Education” and “Amendments to the Law on General Education”... (No 1128/Lp12) the first to be examined under ‘Provision of draft laws’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Are there any objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - approval and termination of the parliamentary term. The appointment of Mr Valtera Dambes 12. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U2	Dear colleagues, I want to take the opportunity to congratulate all our Saeima women on International Women's Day! You know that you are the most beautiful, men will take care of the gifts. I want to wish you love in my own name. And thank you for being. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima found that the Member Ingmārs Līdaka had set the mandate of the 12th Saeima Member. At its meeting on 5 November 2014, the Saeima confirmed the mandate of Mr Walter Dambe as a member, while the elected Members of the Union of Greens and Farmers in the Vidzeme Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties. According to the parliamentary roll, Walter Dambe (The Head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) He was invited to join the Saeima and agreed. It is therefore considered that Walter Dambe is not part of the Saeima (Dep. A.Bērzins: “Forever!” ) but on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U3	Thank you. On the agenda - draft decision “On the confirmation of the powers of the 12th Saeima Member while Members elected from the list of candidates of the Greens/Farmers Union in the Vidzeme Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U4	Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 7 March this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima examined the application of the Member Ingmars Līdaka concerning the establishment of the mandate of the Member of the Saeima. Mr Dambe was invited to join the Saeima in line with the parliamentary order, and he agreed. It is therefore considered that Walter Dambe is not part of the Saeima for a temporary but permanent period. The next candidate of the Union of Greens and Farmers from the list of Vidzeme electoral district is Didzis Zemmers, who refused to accept the mandate of Member of the 12th Saeima. Agris Lungevičs is the next candidate of the Union of Greens/Farmers from the list of Vidzeme Election Area. He also refused to accept the mandate of Member of the 12th Saeima. In turn, the next candidate of the Union of Greens and Farmers from the list of Vidzeme Election Area is Inese Aizstrauta, who agreed to take up the duties of Member of the 12th Saeima for a temporary period while the elected Members of the Union of Greens and Farmers in the Vidzeme Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U5	Thank you. I call on Inese to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U6	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Presidium! Dear Members, I...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U7	One moment, Mrs. Sustrauta! Colleagues, solemn promise! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U8	As a member of the Saeima, I swear to the Latvian people to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U9	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! Mrs. Moore, just a moment! Wait, please! Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of the terms of office of the 12th Saeima Member, while Members elected from the list of candidates of the Greens/Farmers Union in the Vidzeme constituency fulfil their ministerial duties! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I congratulate and call on the Saeima Members, Inese, to take a place in the Saeima sitting room! (Applause) The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On appointment of Jānis Maiziņš as Director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau”. On behalf of the National Security Commission, Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U10	Dear colleagues, In accordance with Section 7 of the Law on National Security, the National Security Commission has evaluated the candidate for the post of Director of the Constitutional Protection Office nominated by the National Security Council, Janis Maitis. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) At our meeting on 26 February, we listened carefully to and questioned the candidate, and the committee unanimously supported him for this post. Therefore, I invite you to appoint Janis Maitis to the post of Director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U11	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U12	Hello, Mr. Maizesh! I said yesterday in the group that I was surprised at why you were afraid of me. One thing is to be afraid of me, the other thing is to be afraid of the front of the people. As our security guarantee, it seemed to me like this... Well, you know. Fear the leader of the people, refuse to meet him-- well, that's... The other one that I didn't like in this case, and that I told you, Mr. Maizins. As you would see, if a Member came to the American Parliament and said: "If we do not approve this person in the CIA office, then Canada's neighbouring country will not understand us." I think this politician would end in that American... and no one would approve such a CIA leader. But we don’t know why it’s acceptable that someone comes and says, “You know, other countries won’t understand if we don’t approve this as a security officer.” I have a great request: Members, feel like you're in your own country! Let’s get this out of here: “Yes, Prince of Baron! Yes, the lord of Baron!” Feel that we are in this country, not the barbaric Prince! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “We feel!” ) And the next thing I want to say. Mr. Maizinis said that it does not apply to him. But I don't understand, how can this not happen?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is economic security. Everyone sees well, and even Mr Streames shows that we have corruption in the country. How can this affect our security?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How can this not affect?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, it can be that... Well, I'm sorry, guys. If the highest security instance does not see what is happening in the country, then there is one question: either it is uncopet (I am sorry for the wrong word!) , or be covered. I do not accept this situation, and I would be very happy, Mr. Maizinis... I understand you'll be approved, but take it maybe... Let's get this country's stolen together! We all say that oligarchs steal the country. Well, I have deep doubts! I think the oligarchs are the people who want to put this country in order. ( Milestones.) I'm sorry, guys, my opinion... Like me... I have earned my millions and proved myself compared to a new race. I don't need any more, I'm sorry, my friends, yes! We're fine! My view, Mr. Maizinis, is that it would be a good thing to be present, as I call, to the invisible grey forces of society that manipulate. We're being manipulated! Officials, law enforcement agencies, are manipulating the media! And make sure we're the owners in our land. Not anyone comes: “We will not understand you unless you approve this man as the main safety guard.” ( Insight: “Sovereign, come on! ”) ) And the worst thing is that... My personal experience with our security services is... We allow former KGB officers to come in wherever they want to. And if a former KGB officer who, as Mr. Adamson, has ever done a good thing in Latin America, he won't make a good thing... then Mr. Nanozol will not be granted the tolerance, yes. And forgive me if this security guard, the former KGB officer, has done something good there, then can make a crime?... That's my attitude... I, too, for Latvia... I have given thousands of jobs. , gave a lot of companies and millions of taxes... I will also be able to commit criminal offences because I have done something good for Latvia if? I have a great request: we get, all Members! Now feel like the owners in your own land! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “But we are! We are!” ) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, Mr. Spolish, go out that baron, yeah! Well, take out that fear of the barons! I feel like I'm the owner of this land! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U13	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U14	Good morning, colleagues! Just two things. First. We have all heard and we know, and we have received confirmation that since the beginning of 2000 no former KGB staff has been present at any Latvian state security institution. Estonia was, but they all fell for spying for Russia. The other thing. If you do not understand what the difference between Canada and Latvia is, both with regard to our immediate neighbours, our ethnic composition and our general mood, then I am sorry for you and also for the Foreign Affairs Commission in which you are working.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U15	The name to Member Nanozol, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U16	Another point that I cannot accept is that the KGB is still sitting here. I don't agree that many of these KGBs... Some who have worked for “Sputnik” have the highest tolerance to national mystery. That's what... I did not ask the question: how is it that the former Sputnik employee (Sputnik was a KGB sub-structure), who is sitting here between us, has a tolerance to national secrecy? And some of the other gentlemen here have said that they've been doing this here already during the Soviets... That's enough, guys! Let's get out of the KGB! ( Internouncing call.) The KGB is still very strong in our country. Don't lie here!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U17	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U18	Dear colleagues, Indeed, the National Security Commission carefully assessed the work done in the post of Director of the Office of Constitutional Protection, as well as the vision of the future and adopted this decision unanimously. The representatives of all the political groups present at this committee meeting voted in favour. And we agreed and asked Mr. Maizinis himself to meet all the political groups. Consequently, every Member who is required to vote today had the time to listen from February 26 to today to Mr Maizins in the political group. Thus, for my part, I call once again for this candidate to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of Jānis Maiziņš as Director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 85, it's two, it's not. (Applause) Congratulations to Mr. Maizitis on re-election to high office! Thank you. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft decision on distrust to Minister for Economic Affairs Arvilas Aseradens. The name is Arvil Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U20	Good afternoon, honourable Members of Parliament. I would like to thank the opposition very much for the opportunity today to talk about the OIC problem. I have to say, I expected the first speakers to speak, but... I will also talk about this matter. I have had the honour to work for several years on the OIC issue, which I understand is this request, and now with full responsibility I can say that I now regard the OIC's implementation history as a fundamental national macroeconomic error. It is not that Latvia would be a unique country whose only area of the European Union would have set ambitious targets for energy independence and environmentally-friendly energy production; there are many such countries, but Latvia is one of the few countries that, on behalf of their noble goals - energy independence and green energy improvement - without assessing their real potential and learning from the good examples of other countries, has fallen into the trap of light profit-makers and simplified regulatory solutions. Although this saga started in 1998 with double tariff support for the operation of small HES, however, the gates for unlimited allocation of permits and production capacity after accession to the European Union are opened by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers adopted by the Kalvitis Government in 2006. And in 2009 these gates are substantially expanded and this square is fully opened by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers already adopted by the government of Godman in the last days. Over seven years, more than 1000 stations have been issued, and since 2009, six government prime ministers have been able to partially contain the gin released from the bottle, fighting the powerful industry lobby. Both the introduction of the right to cancel the allowances granted, the reduction of generous aid granted, the introduction of the tender and the lowest price principle, and, finally, the understanding of the danger of the situation and the political agreement on the imposition of a moratorium on the further issue of permits, limit the number of existing stations to 400. Today, we are afraid to imagine what would happen if all 1000 stations were started. The result is very unpleasant. As early as 2012, reaching the EUR 198 million level of the subsidised part of the OIC, it becomes clear that citizens and entrepreneurs cannot finance such an OIC burden, and the OIC is fixed at EUR 26,79 per megawatt-hour level, with the rest of the OIC being financed from the state budget. This option and the subsidised electricity tax introduced do not remove the excessive purchase price and the amount of the subsidy leads to the total uncompetitiveness of energy intensive producers. Who, then, have the greatest beneficiaries of the OIC support system? In addition to the legendary owners of small HES and wind parks, among which many prominent names of political circles can be found, they are four more large groups of entrepreneurs. Five large systemic power plants, which make up base capacity in Latvia, regional gas or biomass cogeneration plants, which mainly provide local government residents with heat supply, as well as energy-producing enterprises and various farms that power biogas or biomass plants. Before you vote, I would like to summarise what the Ministry of Economics has done in reducing the burden of OICs since I took office. First. We have continued and completed work on aligning state aid with the European Commission, which unfortunately had not been done in the past and threatened the country with serious financial sanctions. Secondly. We have agreed with the European Commission a recompensation mechanism that allows all receiving stations to set a reasonable level of profit. The rate of return on capital over the entire period is nine per cent. It is not unnecessary to note that the mechanism does not involve profits from European funds or public subsidies. Thirdly. We have coordinated with the European Commission a support mechanism for energy intensive producers, with a budget allocation of EUR 3.5 million for this purpose. Fourth. When buying the future commitments, we have significantly reduced support for TEC-1 and TEC-2 stations, which this year have enabled the OIC to reduce the burden on society by almost 28 percent, thereby saving €75 million from the public budget every year and directing it to health care. Five. In order to support energy intensive producers, we have differentiated the OIC system according to the connection capacity, which has made it possible to significantly improve the competitiveness of this group of companies. Six times. The Ministry has launched a conformity assessment for reduced capacity stations. As a result of the inspections, 21 State aid authorisations have now been withdrawn, which allows the total cost of OIC to be reduced by EUR 334 million in the future. Why do we need an OIC differentiation model and support for industry? As early as 2016, it became clear that it is necessary to urgently seek solutions to support energy intensive industries. A particular feature of the manufacturing industry is that it consumes at least one third of the electricity consumed in the country, although it accounts for only 13 percent of the economy. That means that it is energy intensive. As a result of the sharp rise in wages, more and more industrial companies declared their competitiveness problems and expressed their narrowing of production or its transfer to other countries. Those who had created production facilities outside Latvia expressed confusion about uncompetitive electricity prices in Latvia. The solutions were sought by comparing the models of differentiation of the OIC between Germany and Austria. Both envisaged consumer segmentation and appropriate differentiation of OICs by connection capacity. The German model predicted that the reduction from large energy intensive consumers would be compensated by households. The Austrian model, on the other hand, provided that costs were shared between legal customers according to their connection capacity. Given the situation of the Latvian population, we chose the Austrian model. The OIC model also intended to break down the costs of OIC into fixed and variable parts. The size of the fixed part was related to OIC support for base capacity system stations, which play an important role in the availability of capacity in Latvia. Thus, the OIC tariff model was created, which resulted in the most competitive electricity tariff in the Baltics for large energy intensive manufacturing companies, which are not only able to compare their costs at present with Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian tariffs, but also able to compete with Finnish and Scandinavian tariffs and have become regionally competitive. The question may arise: why should industry be supported? The answer is simple. Industry is now the fastest growing sector of the economy. If the economy is growing at 4.5 per cent per year, the rate of industrial growth is 8.5 per cent per year. And even at this rate of growth, industry is only now returning to pre-crisis levels. At present, the industry is developing more rapidly in regions than in Riga. Industrial zones are not only developing in regional development centres - Ventspils, Liepaja, Daugavpils, Rezekne, Jelgava, Jēkabpils and Valmiera; they are also developing dynamically in Kuldīga, Saldus, Gulbene, Smiltene, Cesis and elsewhere where local government leaders have seriously thought about this and found cooperation models with industrialists. Industrial development is changing the regional situation at the moment. People increasingly choose to move to regional industrial centres at the place of departure. And there is one outstanding message here: without well-known Valmiera, there is an increasing number of regional centres that want to build new apartment rental houses for themselves. Due to changes in population, apartments begin to lack in Smiltene, Cesis, Jēkabpils, Kuldīga and many other cities of Latvia. And now one of the most pleasant problems await me is to look for solutions to support these municipalities to build these new rental houses. And if we look at the general picture, we can see that the Minister for Agriculture, Dūklav, has, not in any way, given great support to agriculture, a total of 3.3 billion - the European funds for 2014-2020. Plus flood compensation, support for vegetable farms grown in Latvia and so on, and so on. I'm glad about this, I'm not sorry at all. In turn, as an economic minister, I would like to support, at least through competitive electricity tariffs, a sector that fights in international markets and generates at least 4.5 billion Latvian exports, which is one third of Latvia's total export volume. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.) Impact of the reform on the rest of the market. It is clear that any reform will bring about changes - both negative and positive - and thus affect all market players. We thought we knew them enough, but it turned out differently. The six-month flexible capacity reduction model developed and regularly supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs proved insufficient. Economic sectors with a high seasonal nature - crop, road and construction - have been estimated to have shown that they need a more flexible capacity reduction model based on the possibility of flexible capacity reductions of nine months per year. This approach has been supported by the regulator and work is under way to develop the tariff model, which is due to enter into force in April. We have also searched for solutions for households with high connection capacities and low electricity consumption. In order to avoid fear of future capacity shortages, we have prepared proposals to the regulator for a flexible mechanism for capacity reduction and increase also for households, and it is expected that it will enter into force after its approval in April. Even now, we can say that after the first months of the reform of the OIC, the parallel goal of the reform has been achieved – “Salles tīkls” is becoming more effective, many companies and households apply for individual consultations with specialists of “Salles tīkls” in order to find out the most optimal electricity supply solutions for their company. Many are reducing or abandoning excess capacity in their facilities, so they sort out their farm while also reducing electricity bills. Just a few examples. Master in Latgale, reducing connection capacity from 125 to 60 ampers, saved 220 euros this year. In turn, the canning workshop in Vidzeme, reducing the connection capacity from 400 to 250 amps, will save up to 2900 euros a year later. Medical institution in Riga, reducing connection capacity from 600 to 100 amps, will save 5914 euros. Household in Riga, reducing capacity for connection from 250 to 80 ampers, will save 1500 euros. There are many examples of this. Healthy 53 thousand legal and natural persons have decided to change the connection model and choose an effective connection solution. The tariff model is as follows: Where optimal connection capacity and optimal consumption are available, the customer is essentially the beneficiary. Since the implementation of the OIK reform, about a thousand customers are currently applying for capacity optimisation, consultations and solutions. And I mean, this mechanism works. A few points on further steps to reduce the impact of the OIC. First. The Ministry of Economics has submitted to the regulator a proposal for a more gradual reform of the OIC. This will be a technical solution that will allow this reform to be implemented in four years rather than two years as planned, with the current fixed part of the OIC being reduced by a quarter from the second half of the year. Secondly. The Ministry of Economics is currently making substantial amendments to Cabinet Regulations No. 221 and No.262, which provide for the introduction of a monitoring mechanism for strong operating OIC stations. Thirdly. The Ministry of Economic Affairs shall, after approval of this Regulation, provide for an audit of the conformity of operation of all other 379 stations. Fourth. The Ministry of Economics will encourage Latvenergo to channel last year’s profits of €79 million to reduce the OIC’s impact. Although experts are currently discussing the best solution, clearly this will significantly reduce the burden on consumers of OICs. Finally, I would like to say that it is time for the government to start thinking about the liquidation of the OIC as a legacy of history. The next steps. It is now becoming apparent that the Ministry of Economics will soon reach its ceiling on limiting the OIC system. The OIC commitments have been partially repurchased, oversubsidies have been avoided and a precise monitoring and infringement mechanism will be put in place immediately. But it is clear that this is not enough. It is clear that the current financing model for OIC is morally bankrupt and the public is not prepared to accept it further. The European Union's energy policy makers are also increasingly speaking out of cross-border bans, the many different support mechanisms and market-distorting subsidies. It is also clear that green energy is the future of the planet and that innovative, efficient and forward-looking solutions need to be sought for its implementation; perhaps market based rather than financed through citizens' payments. Therefore, today, from the parliamentary troupe, I call on Prime Minister Maris Kučinski to set up a high-level group of local and international experts, involving politicians whose task would be to find solutions and agree on how to abandon historically ineffective OIC systems and create one that is in line with the future interests of society. The OIC, as a payment by citizens and businesses, must be eliminated by creating a mechanism for the country to further develop green energy and renewable energy production. I am ready to join this working group with my vision and the team of the Ministry of Economics. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U21	Thank you to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Mrs. Cleinberg, will you speak on behalf of the applicants or as a Member of the Saeima? On behalf of the applicants, Member Nelly Kleinberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U22	Good morning, honourable colleagues, especially the Minister. It was really a pleasure to hear how soon you have already been able to present today, when we all heard, and what future developments... It's really fun! Thank you for that. But let's go back before we met you and this question was a little different. I will start with the question where we raised this demand for democracy: what has the people of Latvia received from the Ministry of Economics, headed by Mr Asheraden, today? Prospects for new (unfulfilled) business regimes, an increase in electricity bills of 40-80 percent, scandals and fraud around the issuance of compulsory procurement support, huge cash losses caused by these OIC permits, as well as the lack of sector control. Such omissions are enough and the issue of electricity bills was the last point. And it's not just theoretical. We requested, and in the e-mail all members of our party sent these invoices, as they were in December, and as we saw them in January. And the scene was amazing! We, an association of parties, which represents the interests of the majority of the people and business in the regions, through which the agenda of the Minister of Economic Affairs has been most touched, are taking a decisive step: we are demanding the resignation of the Minister of Economic Affairs. We took Mr Asheraden's time to put an end to this situation, but after meeting with the Minister, we did not hear (as opposed to today). What we saw - the solution proposed by the Ministry - actually included transferring the burden of payment from some of the major energy consumers to all the others - thousands of small and medium-sized businesses, as well as citizens who are now paying significantly higher electricity bills (not all of course). Responsibility is shifted to electricity consumers by recommending them to deal with these issues by themselves, i.e. by connecting or disconnecting capacity. This, however, is illogical to us. We have been convinced that the Minister did not really meet his responsibilities at the time, and this is even more reinforced by the way in which the compulsory procurement component is dealt with. Unfortunately, it must be concluded that only in our country is there a situation where ministers come from one political party... From the beginning, one - Mr. Artis Kampara - establishes an OIC scheme, which causes billions of euros to be lost to Latvian citizens and the state as a whole (last year alone, the cost of compulsory procurement was EUR 320.2 million, so we can estimate how much it has been together since 2011 and how much billion it will be in the future). The second minister, Mr Asheraden, is only after the scandal... As a result of the pressure from the media and society, it was forced to solve the issue, and it was done with great enthusiasm by subtracting OIC licences, and was proud of it, and also welcomed by the media and the people. However, the people have already suffered damage in the days of Mr Kampar. And now, in every press release about closed cogeneration stations, telling us how many million state savings have now been made... It is, in fact, a simulation of action, to some extent, a disguised eye for people, because this kind of saved money is not close to outweighing the damage that has already been caused. Unfortunately, once again it has to be concluded that our officials are only starting to act when the water is in their mouths and when the political chair needs to be protected. If, on the other hand, we are talking about the Minister's plan of 78.9 million of Latvenergo's profits, which were usually directed towards financing health, education and other social groups, then direct the OIC to cover the costs (in particular reducing the fixed costs of OIC to consumers)... It is not, in fact, anything other than putting that money in the pockets of the direct members of the OIC and paying it in advance. Last week, we met three ministers - Kaspars Gerhard, Dan Reizene-Ozol and Arvil Asheraden. They have all been ministers for the economy. And at a time when the system of mandatory procurement support has already been in place... But each of them, asked who is responsible for the situation, is late for having responsibility for someone else. Ministers are unable to take responsibility for their own failings. That is our main conclusion last week. I can therefore confirm once again that the LRA Group considers that Mr Asheraden should leave the chair of the Minister for Economic Affairs. The aim of the LRA is to fight for the obligation for every citizen of Latvia to pay just as much for the particular case or service. We need a country to serve our common interests, not just the interests of individual groups. Do we see Latvia as a country in which we are free to do business, to be creative, to live in which we are able to fulfil our dreams? Or do we see Latvia as a country where we live in tied hands, where the most profitable and desirable business is to become a beneficiary of OICs, a banker who washes money, or an insolvency administrator who amends millions? What do we see and, above all, what kind of country do we want to see? The Association of Latvian Regions is a first option. We are being accused of being too sharp when we ask for Mr Asheraden's resignation. But perhaps we can afford it because, unlike colleagues from other parties, we are not bound by the need to cover the failings of ourselves and our party members, questionable decisions, connection to uneven bank leaders or donations. If we see that the king is naked, we can afford to say that he is naked. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U23	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U24	Hello, brothers and sisters! If we are talking about energy, then, as a former entrepreneur, I do not understand last year's Latvenergo profit figures. A 30 per cent profit... the profits of the State-owned company. In fact, we are imposing an additional 30 percent tax burden on our businesses, citizens and so on. I think any businessman who trades millions a year... billions, happy for five... at least five per cent. 30? I don't understand. It's in principle... in Russians it is called rabbae rabba. And the other thing. In my opinion, we are somehow not going in the right direction when it comes to Latvenergo. OIC is needed! Our own energy, nature friendly, is needed. Only one other thing is incomprehensible. Hundreds of millions have been invested to get us energy from Russian gas. Here's the question: how is that? That is something that we should bake for and be interested in, as has happened, that we have invested hundreds of millions to obtain electricity from Russian gas. But, in my opinion, if we are talking about the Ministry of Economics, much, much more important than energy issues are those, as a minimum, 370 thousand people who have left Latvia. This is not just a question of the survival of our people, they are customers in our stores, our milk producers, our bread bakers, our canning manufacturers. We should think about that! But I do not feel that the Ministry of Economics would take this seriously, and the regrettably - I do not feel that we are worried about it here. We live in such a general apathy - it's all right! Let those 370 thousand who live there, possy-onies... - What? You can't do that! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri: “Speak in Latvian!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U25	Mr. Nanosol, I remind you... Mr. Nunozole, you have a microphone shut down. Excuse me! You are speaking here for the second time in a language other than the language of the country. I am telling you about that reprimand. ( Interface: “I can’t hear anything! ” ) Mr. Nanozol, you have a microphone switched off. I warn you again. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosol continues to speak without a microphone.) Mr. Nunozol, again! You have a microphone turned off right now. As the chair of the sitting, I am reprimanding you. Meetings shall be held in the state language and shall call for this Rule of Procedure to be observed. ( Interface: “You have a microphone turned off! ” ) Secondly, do not talk to the Chair of the sitting. Now, please continue the debate. But note that Saeima sittings are held in the state language. Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U26	I will ask everyone in the Saeima to remember this. Here the work takes place in Latvian. Also on the commissions. And at the moment when someone starts to suffer in another language, I will remind you that the work here is in Latvian.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U27	That's absolutely right.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U28	Dear friends, remember! And I do not want to hear any meeting of the Committee on European Affairs in English anymore. Mrs. Mūrniece, remember, this is a Latvian language, not an English one!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U29	Once again, Mr Nunozol, you are being reprimanded. Mr Nunozole, you are being reprimanded. Please follow the parliamentary roll and do not discuss it with the Chair of the sitting! Now continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U30	It is very regrettable that you want to stop me so much. ( Milestones.) I would be happy if I allowed to talk about it. Can you? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U31	Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U32	Thank you very much. ( Milestones.) I have a great request, Members. If we really need some commission and some working groups, then we come together, put our heads together and create a working group that thinks how we can create jobs, raise our economy! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “But we are together!” ) We engage entrepreneurs in this group and approach this issue very seriously! It's not a laughing question. This is our question for the future. What will we do when we end up with this European Union money? Are we going to fail? A great request - changing priorities! There is no more important issue than job creation and economic adjustment. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U33	Member Astrid Harjus.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U34	Dear Saeima! Prime Ministers! Today, with regard to the request made by the Minister for Economic Affairs, I would like to touch very important basic jobs in the functioning of the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Tell me about the request for a mission!” ) It is responsible for its decisions and their impact on society and for its activities and responsibilities in the field of public interest. In this respect, I would like to remind you once again that on 5 May 2005 the Saeima agreed in a vote on support for the green energy market in the Latvian energy system by incorporating the Energy Market Act into the directives of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament, which stipulated that payments of the mandatory procurement component are covered by consumer wallets. So, with this long-term commitment, that we will reach 40 per cent of green energy on our energy market, we set a target, and that target was at the end of the mountain. And this anniversary was given to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, with the mandatory procurement component condition, which was linked to these extremely many millions, these payments that we are now hearing about here, as well as the fact that it is covered by consumers. And what was placed at the foot of the mountain? So, a legislative framework within the meaning of the law and a commitment to the European Commission. Go on. The Ministry of Economics established the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which changed over time and established various support mechanisms, but one of them was price, and the purchase price was double. Since 2005, these payments have been gradually taken from consumers. But in the beginning, this station, which produces green energy, of course, was little. So far, this rise has reached a great extent, since we are drawing close to those 40 percent. Payments are, of course, for consumers. And there's public interest in these circles. But the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers contain various favourable conditions in the times of several governments and ministers. A honest businessman who opened up this innovative plant also produced and worked in good faith on the rules. But he, who was not honest, was able to get stuck in these circles alongside honest entrepreneurs and take advantage of the shortcomings of the law, as well as the extremely frequent change of ministers in the Ministry, because from 2005 until now 10 ministers have led the Ministry. Can you imagine a school or a municipality where 10 leaders change over 13 years? It's chaos! Because they also have changes in officials, preferences, goals, and interests (Dep. J. Viļums: “Nothing changed in this case!” )... As of February 2016, i.e. for two years, this Ministry has been led by Arvils Asheraden, receiving an inheritance, as we all know, of the energy market and infrastructure department, almost without employees. Of course, the first job is to complete the administration, and that's not... We all know what the competition order is, and it is a long-term process. There is a hundred and one job task, and this is one of them. And, of course, by receiving all these signals that there is no order that consumers are burdened with too much and payments are increasing... the fact that during the years of the crisis, the state aid that was put into this vault was taken away... During the crisis, state aid was withdrawn. Consumers were jointly and severally divided: the OIC payment was paid by consumers and paid by the State. And with this burden, a mandatory control of the procurement component was launched in terms of the meaning and nature of the system, as well as the legality of decisions taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So I'm talking about this green energy at the end of the mountain and this boom. The composition of the story has changed so differently that it is extremely easy to watch and punish from outside. Our responsibility, the Saeima, in taking responsibility for the decision taken in 2005, is to participate with our support. If this system begins to be audited, controlled, which is not an easy and pleasant job, because many entrepreneurs, as we now hear in public space, are deprived of these permits... Any such administrative act can also have unpleasant consequences, because operators who withdraw authorisations are certainly ready to fight for a plant (fair or unfair means - not known). I therefore pay tribute to the existing Minister for Economic Affairs and to my support for further work and call on the Saeima to show solidarity and support for him in this difficult task - to put this system in order and reduce the overall burden of consumer payments on the OIC system, and to think about and find financial support from the country in order to reduce the burden of this system on consumers. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U35	Thank you. Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U36	Good morning, colleagues! Such historical places in Latvia - Eleja, Jaunpagasts, Barkava, Bauska, Aizkraukle, Jēkabpils... These are all places where a company exports approximately 400 million foreign products - grain - every year with a turnover of over 200 million. From next year also Daugavpils, Saldus... This company, the agricultural services cooperative LATRAPS, invests around 12 million this year, and this is not a contribution from the funds, because the funds for this measure... the undertaking in question is no longer available, they do all of this from their own resources. Of course, no one's a secret about... also for a company such as VAKS from Valmiera... Also, of course, “Durf grain” and very many other companies... Total output - grain, milk, fruit, vegetables and so on. Some 750 million per year of agricultural production as such. That's why those figures against that industry... Well, you don't have to set it up! It is also a sector that has to work, and it is not a sector that should pay 27 or 28 cents per megawatt... the electricity consumed per kilowatt-hour. That is why, on the one hand, this reform, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, is a kind of motivation because it made us look at and listen. And at this moment, the hat goes to Mr. Asheraden! Very many solutions will be realistic, they will also be in life - that is, of course, good. And when it comes to the request from the opposition, it must be said that at this point, of course, one job for the opposition is to be like a guard, but often your actions are just destructive. Because, think for yourself! Well, if we let Arville go today, then what happens next? ( Internouncing call.) A new minister will come, who will try to break into a system called OIC for six, nine months, but the tariffs will not remain anywhere - the tariffs that have been approved will be in force. And, of course, the opposition will only applaud it, seeing it all and collecting additional dividends for itself. Let us be constructive today, however! I will also turn to you, the opposition! Because these proposed solutions... of course, they do not solve the whole problem. But the particular minister... As the previous speaker said here, he is not personally guilty of it, even though some of the blame is of course due to Unity, because it is during Unity and Arta Kampar's time, no matter how I tried to say, Mr. Veiko Spolitis did not... See, the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations have been adopted during Mr Gerhards's term of office. Yeah, that's it. But the main thing about the licences and payments that have been issued and in force is exactly accepted during Campara. And that's it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Clementjev: ‘Unit!’ ) The request for resignation is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U37	Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U38	Ladies and gentlemen! I too am one of those who signed a call for distrust to the Minister for Economic Affairs. ( Internouncing call.) I am also one of those who had thought: what will it change? As Mr Putra has just said, instead of Mr Asheraden, there would be another politician of Unity and everything would remain old in big trains. I'm not going to talk about the change after the OIC. I was encouraged to climb the platform with an article of a bank expert yesterday, which contains the following phrase (i quote): “In the next decade the population will drop to up to one third.” The author of this article probably has no connection with Mr Asheraden, but it reflects, in a concentrated and quite open manner, the way of thinking of politicians and economists in power, which, in one sentence several years ago, was expressed by a politician in power - Latvia is a good place for business, only citizens are disturbed. People probably don’t read such articles, but they feel that they really do, so they leave the country. I hope that the said Latvian language expert does not know as well as the dogmas of the neoliberal economy, so his words will “fall to a third” but need to be understood as “fall to a third”. Thus, the population of Latvia will drop by one third in the next decade. In the 20th century such a drop was twice: during World War I and during Stalinic deportations. Latvia is the only country I know in a world where the population is now smaller than before the First World War. Will a new world war or a new deportation await us? No, no! The reason for this is the prevailing economic paradigm, where people are seen as an obstacle to business and the economy, to the sacred cow - to exports. AWARDS OF UNIFORMITY. During this government population in the statistical regions of Latvia has decreased by 2.8 per cent in Zemgale, by 4.1 per cent in Latgale. In addition, it is based on official population data. I believe that the government and, above all, the Minister for Economic Affairs, in agreement with the course of such events, should be seen in the best possible case as negligence. What should people do if they are threatened with a third of their numbers? Do You Organize the Resistance Movement? Do you still hope that the government will defend them? That the state will begin to be governed by people who will seek solutions beyond the narrow sight that currently exist under their neoliberal claps. Mr. Asheraden is a good man. The geographer. Several geographers have applied for themselves as economic experts – Coziol, Paiders, Wolf, Asheraden... I even believe that Mr Asheraden has not benefited personally from the OIC. I also do not rule out that he hopes to get rid of the minister's post in a field that he does not really know. Economists who have studied modern neoliberal theories, but also the works of economic classics, will know that already 200 years ago, economic classics have provided a basic explanation for the processes in the modern world and Latvia, when millions of people leave their home land looking for work in a foreign country. Only by understanding the causes of these processes can we look for ways to regulate them. If we agree with the idea that after the celebration of the centenary of Latvia there may be even water floods, when the number of Latvians will drop by a third, then Mr. Asheraden will remain in place. This government may also fail to find a better minister for the economy. But let the government look! I call on you to support Mr Asheraden's debut! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U39	The name to the Member, Mr. Gustovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U40	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Presidium! Dear Ministers, Ladies, dearly respected! Ladies and gentlemen, You see, I was also interested in this issue, including looking at it at the Request Commission, and that's why I'm interested in how many of these distrusters have visited at least one OIC station themselves. I think that one can judge the matter from the point of view of the one who has studied it. That is why I visited, and I had a number of conclusions that I would like to make known to you all. So, first of all. When this idea emerged, it was a completely new scientific innovation. Let's start with it. A series received government awards, for example, because some good chip cogeneration station was one of the first in Latvia. And the heads of these stations, who have complied with all the rules in good faith, are confused: how it happens that they are creating scientific innovation, receiving government awards, carrying out laws in good faith, but suddenly this question is so black in the reputation that it is absurd! Secondly. Yes, we have a number of unscrupulous entrepreneurs. But I, dear, would like to compare this with the idea of the Olympic Games. You see, there are a number of athletes in the Olympic Games who are using doping, but is that why the Olympic Games are not being held? And is it because we have a range of unfair OIC-station entrepreneurs that we will not produce electricity? Is that why the Minister is guilty? Well, it's absurd! Thirdly. As we talked to the Request Commission... And I see that Mr. Zarins has also applied... You see, this thing is about technical parameters... As I said, scientific innovation... Mr Zarins also spoke on several occasions at the Commission of Requests about power, about megawatts, about technical sizes and about regulatory acts adopted to enforce them. You know, my call is - please let us not politicalise the economic size of the Saeima, let us not politicalise the matters for which individual responsible organisations must be responsible. Go on. The criticisms about OIC processes and activities are in fact directed towards the past. As Mrs Astrid said, at least 10 ministers have been, changed... Dear ones, what are they even talking about? On the contrary, Mr Asheraden is the minister who has already taken away the permits for the eleven stations, he is the one who has begun to address this issue. What is it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, To conclude, I can only say one thing to you. You see, when I've been working for 22 years in a regional tourism association, I've been working in close cooperation... I dare also say - control what the Ministry of Economics does... And I can dare you here, from this troupe, to say that Mr Asheraden is one of the best, most competent ministers in the history of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Therefore, dearly, I call for this proposal to be rejected. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U41	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U42	Hello, colleagues! We've seen the circus, the fairy tales we've heard, let's talk about the thing now. ( Milestones.) First of all, what is this demand for a mission? However, the demand for a mission is linked to the so-called reform of the OIC. What was the reform of this OIC? I'll remind you. In 2016, the Ministry of Economics suddenly, on an urgent basis, thought that it should be reformed how the OIC burden was paid. At that time it was hidden. Why was it necessary to put it in the budget package suddenly, as a matter of urgency, even though it has nothing to do with the budget if it only comes into force in 2018? This was done by means of a lobby of specific interests in order to benefit from this reform on a stand-alone basis, in particular companies. The problem was that... It is already very good that we help a manufacturing company... That is really what the Ministry of Economics should take care of. But the problem was that it was done at the expense of other entrepreneurs. And as a result, what you have already warned of (read the Saeima's debate) was that, once this reform is implemented, there will be future entrepreneurs on whose shoulders this reform will be put, and protest against this reform, and this ring will begin. And that has happened. The first farmers came. What did the Ministry of Economics do? It willingly shifts this burden to other shoulders. And so that circus will continue until we end up paying for everything, as always, man's ordinary. What did the Ministry of Economics do? As elections approached, it offered the following move: instead of actually reducing the burden on OICs, it offered to create an illusion for one year that the burden was lower. It is, not really, to reduce it, but simply to find an additional source of funding - 80 million of Latvenergo's profits. In essence, it is not simply Latvenergo's profit; it is all our money. It's a budget, it's a government money! Because in total, Latvenergo... This surplus should be entered in the budget. And look at what's going on. In our country, for example, science has been unable to get its funding for years; for years, it has been measured by asking for its dreams of 20 million, which it promises in the long run in 2021. There's an oikis for a blow, right away, - 80 million! Take it, be well fed! That's what? Mr Asheraden, are you Minister for the Economy or Minister for the Economy? What could I do? If this money comes up suddenly, this 80 million? If I were an economic minister, I would not feed these 80 million generously to these Occists, but I would have enough one million to put this system in order, to check it, to make thorough checks. And it would turn out that these 80 million aren't needed. Perhaps it would not be necessary to take 189 million, because what has happened is the whole of this barrack, thanks only to the work of the Ministry of Economics - just because the Ministry of Economics has failed to monitor this system. Now we're hearing hero stories here, how you're gonna do everything, how it's going to happen. Tell me, where were you all these years, why didn't you? The answer is very simple: you know that it is about to be denounced, there will be clear evidence of how the nation has been burdened with this unwarranted burden, how a huge area, which is still politically covered and which has cost the nation billions and which may not have been. And so to hide all this, you are running and telling us how you will do everything, what kind of heroes you are. In fact, it is, on the one hand, simply cynical deception and, on the other, despair, because you know that if it comes to the public - and it comes to the public! - Then all those who have been associated with this scene can go out in the policy manure, and I hope they won't be just individual people. Colleagues! What is really happening? For us, bulls on our lips are described in the fight against this OIC. Actually, nothing like that! Storm action is taking place to cover this area so that nothing can in principle be changed. One example I have heard about these inspections, which are now taking place. Colleagues, do you even know what these are about the checks that are going on? We will have a separate demand today for this... But in short... There are currently 400 production stations. The Ministry of Economics has, for some reason, chosen to test 39 stations, of which only seven have real sales contracts. It is clear right away that almost none of them work! They shall be examined by the Ministry of Economy for a period of five months. Tell me what are you checking over there? And when, at the last meeting of the Committee on Petitions, we asked how many of these stations were actually built, the Ministry of Economics was unable to answer. All right, the Ministry was asked: how many of them have actually started production within the deadline set in the permit? The Ministry of Economy was unable to respond to this. The question is, what do they even check there? We asked: How many stations have you really tested? In writing, this is confirmed - in this time, in these months - by eight stations! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “There are more than 15 locked!” ) What is being tested... Is that so? Go on. If we're talking about the substance... If the Ministry of Economics had fulfilled its duties in accordance with the regulatory framework, also taking into account public interests, the permissions to these stations had to be cancelled for a long time - without all checks, because none of them met the requirements of the Ministry of Economics. But - and here is an important nuance! - Since the Ministry of Economics was itself the one who schemed these container schemes... what you, fellow Members, have all seen on television, namely these meadows, these containers... where there is actually a green meadow, but according to the documents of the Ministry of Economics there is a cogeneration station. There you go! It is the Ministry of Economics, which has itself schemed, which has legalised such a scheme. And now it is suffering from these checks because, as it says, it is simply difficult to recognise these schemes, the Ministry does not want to confirm that it has been an unlawful act that is not in the public interest, and is now trying to carry out some checks and to cancel something. If the Ministry of Economics does not have the courage to admit that it had schemed these schemes itself and that it was illegal, it was not in the public interest, then, colleagues, all these proceedings, all these cancellations, which are now being presented as such a great heroic story, can in fact go the contrary, because operators, based on this position of the Ministry of Economics, will have a very successful opportunity to challenge these cancellations and to recover this money from the State. But we will talk more about this in our examination of the request for these inspections. Another thing with which the Ministry of Economics is currently big - and you will probably find it interesting - is the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which the Ministry is supposed to sort out. I will give you one example. So one of the amendments... Indeed, certain amendments make this regulation more stringent, but do not change this system of principle. A trader can cheat without complying with the conditions, and he will have nothing to do with it. He'll just be warned. In addition, the new amendments to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are driven by the Ministry of Economics, provide that before an economic operator can withdraw his authorisation, he will have to be warned three times within five years. And now, colleagues, look: there are 400 stations... 40 stations, almost 40 stations, are checked for five months. How long will it be possible to test all other stations? What hope is there that they will be able to control them in this time frame? This means that, in principle, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are made as follows: cheat as much as you want, you won't have anything about it! The amendments to the rules, on the other hand, provide for the following procedure: even if you catch it, you will not be punished for that. You will simply warn and will still set a deadline for eliminating all this. If, by analogy, what the Ministry of Economics now offers, we, so to say, are exaggerating to us all the road traffic regulations we understand, then what now offers the Ministry of Economics as a fight against the Occists, looks like this: you drive, at the steering wheel you are under the influence of alcohol, you stop, record this violation - that at the steering wheel you are under the influence of alcohol - and according to the Cabinet of Ministers... The amendments to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers proposed by the Ministry of Economics at this moment... You won't have your driving licence taken away... you have the right to drive a car will not be deprived, you will not be punished. In accordance with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, you will be warned that you have been caught while driving in a drink and will be told: “You may continue driving in a drink for another six months! And you won't have to... You have six months, that you may no longer do this." Moreover, you are also told: “And since you will go to the steering wheel while sitting in a drink, we will forgive you for this, for the alcohol you consume... at the same time spends... that you are going, sitting in the midst of the steering wheel.'" Here are the amendments to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that are being driven! In all seriousness, you are trying to say that it is a serious fight against OICa. In fact, the OIC is continuing. And I will prove it to you. I have been working for several months, conducting my own investigation, and facts have been collected. For all of this, there will be evidence that it is a politically covered sphere that is still going on, and all that is happening is simply a political cover. And politicians, knowing that it will be discovered, are now trying to save something and imagine that they will change something. Colleagues! The changes will only happen if society finally starts to think and understand what is actually happening. If things go on, if we can put society together like rams, then we will never see the truth. What is happening now - in essence, a scheme is being created that, after all, the wolf will have fed... This show will be made, the wolf will be fed. The dog that should protect the sheep will proudly boast, as he has scared and repelled this wolf from the sheep. At the same time, the sheep will continue to curl. That is the reality! That is what is happening at the moment! I call for support for the resignation. (Applause) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U43	Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U44	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! This is not just about the component of compulsory procurement or about electricity bills. There are also a number of other work that the Minister for Economics, Arvil Asheraden, has not done. There are a number of things that the Minister still has not done, although it is his direct responsibility. He has successfully forgotten about these things, or he does not want to hear about them at all. Here I am referring specifically to the micro-enterprises system, which, during Mr Asheraden's ministerial work, has been completely destroyed, damaged... Well, I don't know how it could be said any more. Undoubtedly, the amendment to the Microbusiness Tax Act has made a number of unpleasant changes which, by their very nature, do not correspond to what they wanted to achieve with this form of business. The maximum turnover has been reduced by 60 percent, so the era of micro-enterprises is rapidly approaching its end. In future, the micro-enterprises tax rate for all micro-enterprises will be 15 per cent of turnover. This means, for example, that the micro-enterprises will have a maximum value added tax of more than 39 per cent when purchasing computer equipment. A natural person can now work at the same time in only one micro-organism. We will remember that according to the law, a micro-enterprises may employ not more than five employees and their salary may not exceed 720 euros per month. From this we can conclude that a micro-enterprise is no longer able to offer its employees competitive terms, allowing them to work in another micro-enterprise. Of course, micro-enterprises were set up as a transitional mechanism as a first step to create a new form of business. But let’s see what the reality is! Some small businesses are only able to operate under micro-business conditions, but normal tax policies will destroy these businesses, and will complete them altogether. Of course, it cannot be denied that some micro-entrepreneurs used this status in their own interests, sometimes even abusively. But this should not be about business form, but about the control mechanism, about supervision. In 2015, if history does not lie, Arvils Asheraden, as Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, said that the new law should focus on start-up companies. The Ministry of Economics even started work on the development of a law on start-ups, which would provide for a new regulation of micro-enterprises regime in order to avoid optimizing micro-enterprises tax schemes. Where are the results? No results! Nothing has been done in this area! By June 2017, the Ministry of Economics was asked to seek solutions that would provide support measures for start-ups as well as companies with a low annual turnover. Where are the results? What has been done in this area? Nothing. And finally. Unfortunately, it has to be concluded that, despite all the promises made by the government and by Arvils Asheradens, the Minister of Economics in particular, Latvia has now remained without proper tax incentives for new entrepreneurs, including start-ups. And we've all been hit by a powerful micro-organism story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U45	The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U46	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I come from Valmiera, a beautiful city on the coast of Gauja. And one of the many things it can be proud of is large industrial companies, such as the VALMIER STATISTLE FIELD, twenty-four, and others. Every day, these companies employ several thousands of employees, conquer export markets and hand in hand to ensure stable economic growth in Valmiera, Vidzeme and all over Latvia. At the beginning of 2015, “VALMIERAS SKIKLA ŠKIEDRA” opened another factory. It would be logical that this factory would be opened in Valmiera, Latvia, and the land in the vicinity allowed it to do so, but the management of the factory decided to open this new workshop in the United States, because it was quite simply the price of electricity that was much more competitive. Legally - the city with concern awaited the next “VALMIERAS Skyla ŠIEDRAS” decision. This time perhaps it is about leaving Latvia. Because it was not a secret that electricity prices could not be competitive at that time. And the question of leaving, redundancies and creating a crisis in Valmiera and all Latvia was just a matter of time. The diversification of the compulsory procurement component, driven by the Ministry of Economics, depending on the connected capacity, has allowed both companies and healthy cities – Valmiera, Daugavpils, Ventspils, Jelgava, Gulbene, Saldum... The management of the company admitted that these have been crucial changes that allow to plan the long-term activities of the industrial company in Latvia. With reduced electricity tariffs, our industry is able to compete on the world market, it is able to provide new jobs and raise wages for existing employees. “Liepājas metalurgs” also hoped for similar reform. Unfortunately, it didn't wait. Individuals are also benefiting from the recent reform of the OIC. We like to look for all extremes and critical situations. However, following the reform, 750 000 households' electricity bills have been reduced or have remained the charge for the components of compulsory procurement. And anyone who has been affected by this reform in a negative way is called upon to turn to the "Distributive Network" to find the best solution. Because in this reform everyone can benefit from productivity. The Ministry has also contributed a great deal of work to the review of OIK licences. During the Minister of Arville Asheraden... Within two years, the Ministry has repealed 28 OIC decisions. Latvia has saved €400 million. If we calculate and distribute for every citizen, then the Minister for Economic Affairs has saved EUR 200 each. I will not deny that the Minister for Economic Affairs may have made a mistake. Mistaked at the time of detection, the finger did not point to the other perpetrators who had jammed the quail. The Minister may have made a mistake not to buy mastery PR campaigns for the best possible sale of these ideas in the media for all of us. But I think colleagues, you'll agree... If you have to choose a minister, do we have to choose one who, at the moment of the problem, actively pulls his hands out of the pockets and shows by his finger who is guilty, but does not do anything to put this thing right, or do we have to choose one who sees every problem in the ministry as his own responsibility, does not fear to go on the way to the dream of individual entrepreneurs for a easy return on the public's part and invests in unselfishly work in solving the problem? I choose second. Let the Minister for Economics Arvils Asheraden work, let the Ministry of Economics continue the fight for reducing OICs! Let us ensure lower electricity tariffs for all of us! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U47	Thank you. Mr Viļuma, will you have seven minutes to debate? Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U48	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, it is quite easy for me to speak, because I have already made a loud statement before that, that the whole government must resign. And, to be honest, I certainly have some Green and Farmers' Union ministers and Mr Gerhard, who are already suffering from such a chronic regional failure. But, of course, Mr Asheraden has something to say. Mr Asheraden has already mentioned that this entire OIC system is a fundamental macroeconomic error. Mr Asheraden is trying to put the blame on other governments, the previous governments. But there is also a very close connection with the Ministers of Unity. I will remind you of this a little later. The Minister says that, at last, coordination with the European Commission has been achieved, and now there is a certain reasonable profit margin - only nine per cent. Ladies and gentlemen! You try to go to the bank and ask for your deposit to have a 9 percent profit! Good luck! I think you won't find a chance. They are still disproportionately high profit margins. Prepares a flexible connection and disconnection system for households as well... You know, we still have no explanation as to what this system will be. It still seems to be too expensive and inefficient. And households will simply not be able to afford it. Here we have already seen a kind of war between Unity and the Greens/Farmers Union, and this war will, unfortunately, continue in the joint work of the government, and the joint fire is unfortunately not extinguished. As part of the Ministry of Economics, this fire is not extinguished, but only a little localised, so that it is curing, we may be able to take action, but we do not have a real step forward. And if something is happening, then it is only through the massive pressure of society and the media. Recently we heard about the new version of the OIC 2 system. And, thank God, it was pushed somewhere in a deep drawer and not heard of it lately. The Minister is proud of his actions, but those licences that were cancelled... are just what journalists showed us in the “No-Personal” programme... Unfortunately, the ministry has done nothing more of that importance. Moreover, the whole of this OIC system story has led the ordinary farmer, who would like to install a small wind generator and produce electricity for his own farm, thereby reducing all these high electricity transmission costs that we all pay together - that he is refused: “No, you cannot, because their licences are so many for us that simply the country can’t afford it anymore.” And the honourable valiers! Large entrepreneurs are, of course, reducing their OIC payments, but at what expense? At the expense of small businesses and citizens. The heating tariff will also increase in Valmiera. Check it out for yourself! A similar situation may arise in the future in other places where heat is produced together with electricity. Ladies and gentlemen! For years there has been created a system that is clearly unfair to those people of Latvia who live outside Riga. Half of the compulsory procurement component paid by all Latvia is for TEC-2 gas cogeneration. All of Latvia, regions where the standard of living and income is already lower, subsidize Riga’s heating tariffs, thus paying for smaller heating tariffs for Riga residents. In addition, Russian gas is still being subsidised! Every citizen, when receiving and paying his own electricity bill, is clearly aware that only a third is the real price of electricity. The second third is this increased charge for electricity supply, and the third is this... Well, I have to say, the joint tax of the Unity. These tables, which travel in social media, also show this. You can see that all this started during Mr. Kampar, continued during Mr. Pavlut and, of course... began, by the way, in Mr. Gerhard's time... In his time, the number of licences issued increased by 500 percent. In Mr Campar's time, only 300 percent. So it is as though I should say thank you to Mr Kampar. At the same time, of course, the overall financial gain is, in fact, a very important loss for all of us. What to do? I also have one proposal, but because of the lack of time I will not present it to you. So I just want to end by asking: Mr Asheraden, you are proud that you have done a great deal to reduce the number of these licences, but please come here in the platform, tell and assume at least your own political responsibility for having any litigation. Then there will not be left any valves, through which entrepreneurs will be able to get back the same money and compensation, which will have to be paid by all residents of Latvia together. Thank you for listening. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U49	Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U50	Good morning, honourable Members! I ask the political leaders to attend the joint meeting of the Council and the Bureau in five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U51	Thank you. Name for Member Sergey Dolgopolov's statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U52	Dear colleagues, A meeting of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government will take place at this inter-sessional committee premises, starting in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U53	Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U54	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Valters Dambe, Jānis Kžads, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Romanas Mežeckis, Romanas Miloslavskis, Sergejs Mirskis, Ināra Mūrniece... And...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U55	I am.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U56	... Imants Debtor, Romuald Gumuck... was, Valdis Skujiņš, Juris Šulcs and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U57	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U58	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft decision on distrust to Minister for Economic Affairs Arvilas Aseradens. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U59	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, A great deal has been said, so I will not talk about the things that previous speakers have already spoken about. I'll just try to tell you what they didn't say after shyness or ignorance and about the OIC. The shortest word of sympathy to the Minister: Oh, we are once again in the bog! We are actually extinguishing the fire and are now praising the fire-fighter! I am calling very much for a little stop to the mutual debate to go into some of my sentences. I hope that you, Minister, went to Riga Technical University Faculty of Engineering Economics and Management, where excellent people work - scientists, professors, correspondents, doctors, doctor's work in their specialty (because we have rich traditions, starting from Keguma, - Pļaviņas, Aizkraukle, Riga HES and so on). And that's where I accidentally learned what you all defaulted... Nobody wants to talk about, especially some of them, which have been pushing this issue since 1995, but in the end, we are at the siege and the Minister himself tells us that we need Mr Kučinski, the Prime Minister, to do something very important at all: to end this disaster that has been over Latvia. Of course, he forgot to say... invite the Prime Minister to develop a project on how to repay to the State these funds spent in stakeholder wallets and properties. I would simply like to say that there, in this faculty (I will not tell you who is working there, the surnames are not important, go on their own - find out), I learned that in 1995, before the idea of an OIC began to move in the territory of Latvia at all, there were 40 percent of green energy in Latvia compared to Europe. And then, under the leadership of one minister, it was decided that we need even more green energy. Dear Members, good Members, honourable Members! You know what I'm talking about? 40 percent! There were three power plants that provided Latvia with 40 per cent of green energy. And what did we do? First of all, we allowed small power plants to develop into double pay, then wind farms... And then, all that disaster... That's not clear for months now... Mr Zarins said there - yes, within five months, it is not possible to find out what is happening to these cogeneration plants. I want to object to the Member who spoke before me, Astrid Harry. You said that the Saeima was responsible for the decisions taken. I say this all the time: we must be responsible for what we press for. And we get to the end... The fact that the result has now proved very sad... You should have said that the coalition parties in the position, including the commission leaders, who have obviously gone into the law and the economy, are responsible for the decisions taken. You're in charge! Forgive me, the opposition only recommends, the mass media do not reflect it, they are not interested in it. And why is there no interest in such questions? Why is it always stressed that the Saeima is responsible? No, you in the coalition are responsible! I very much invite the Minister to explain to the people in his research and analysis how the OIC system in Latvia developed. Under which minister? And so that you don't say you can't find these ministers, I'll name them. Started with Ivars Gater. I don't mention Mr. Squeeze. I don't make a conscious mention, because he's not guilty of the oligarchus negotiations. He has always done only the best for Latvia. But I would like to say that you should be interested not from 2002 or 2005 but from 1995 onwards, from the end of the last century. It would then be very clear and understandable to the people. You are now recommending that we review it, not to grant licences, to stop it, and so on. And mislead the public. So Ivars Gaters, Juris Lujans, Krišjānis Kariņš, Aigars Štokenbergs, Jurijs Strods, Aigars Kalvitis, Gaidis Berzins, Kaspars Gerhards, Artis Kampars, my colleague from Jāzeps Vītols Latvian Academy of Music, a virtuoso, a genius pianist - Daniels Pavluts, then Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, who didn't seem to know anything because it was a short time... And before you had Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who also didn't worry about something bad happening in her ministry. I can understand that because, see what about the thing. As in the Ministry of Education and Science, officials are already working there, they do not change. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “Who is the master of the ship?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ That’s why I do not agree with this statement... Mr. Putra's reprimand. You don't need to stop Asheraden because it's gonna take six months for each other to understand what's wrong. I want to ask one... Yes, the Minister and the Parliamentary Secretary do not understand, but those officials who work there know everything. They have absolutely everything, and I think it would be better not for the ministry itself to browse, why we are in this situation and why we have such problems, but here's what I call the Faculty of Engineering and Management... there would also be the Faculty of Energy and Electrical Engineering... from it create a commission, bring together wise people, invite decent boys or girls from the Latvian Academy of Sciences and then draw a conclusion. But not for a ministry that has always worked for its own sake... I'm sorry. For our good, not for the good of the country, as we now record. 79 million is not your money, as Asheraden says. It's government budget money, my dear, good! I also disagree with the view that consumers are one and that the country is something else. Forgive me, the consumer pays taxes that are included in the state budget. There is all our money in the state budget that we should worry about! And why are 79 million being given to stimulate the creation of something in the right place? I think that is very wrong. I call on the Members to make a proposal to Mr Asheraden to stop starting up in the ministry, to determine what is and what is not to blame, what has done or not done and what has led to it, and to set up a working group from the knowledgeable people of the Riga Technical University, who understand what is going on and how this is going on, and then let them exclaim it from 1995 to this day, and give a conclusion. And until then... I support the fact that Mr Asheraden should not run the ministry until he finds out... Why have I not considered these arguments, for example, and why have they not been touched by anyone at all? Why is it not said who were the members of the coalition parties who voted in favour of all these energy... about all these innovations, all these transitions? You have to bear, dear, good, responsible! And when I see that there is a minister for education and science, I finished my speech... That's exactly the same thing. Ministers, parliamentary secretaries and state secretaries from coalition parties are changing, but the officials are working, and I want to see that at least their reforms in education will be completed... I do not know how here, but there they will end when the European funds, the Structural Funds, end. They are currently spending three or four million. When it ends in 2020, no reforms will take place. Dear Members, We each have our own views and our own definition of why we have been elected here at all. And I call once to listen to my conscience. I call for a lot of thought not to be given to my chooms and my fellow Members who deserve a pitch at the expense of the state budget, but finally to think about a nation in general that does not deserve to be one millionaires at the expense of the state budget. And others hide it and they don't reveal anything. And what Mr. Asheraden is talking about here... I'm sorry, I don't believe in any of your arguments. I'm sorry if you're not talking about the so-called green electricity... It's all... 40 percent were already... Thank you for your attention. I call on you to vote in favour of suspending the Minister from office. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U60	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U61	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! If Mr Platoper had a little more interest in experts, he would, of course, know that over 40 percent, close to 50 percent, was part of so-called green electricity, while the 40 percent target for final consumption includes both electricity, transport and heat. And this, of course, was much less than those about 37-38 percent who are now. But, as many have said here, one of the main problems was that this OIC system included aid for fossil fuels and, in fact, aid for natural gas. And journalists would really be worth studying who were those who encircled this part, and perhaps who were those who voted for it. Because I think not only the position parties have voted in favour, but also one of the... each other from the parties who are currently denying this everything very much. But the situation is really excellent from the point of view of Gazprom. Natural gas has support and so-called fossil subsidies, at the same time as all green energy. And the reality is that, in the future too, society will probably not adopt any support measures for green energy, because everyone will understand what it has led to. Of course, support for green energy was also wrongly developed. There was no point in supporting many of the small hydropower plants that actually did more damage to nature than actually benefited. There was no point in supporting a biomass power station in the middle of a field that used maize rather than manure and actually caused more damage to the environment than any benefit. Part of the small biomass cogeneration units will be worth it once the subsidy expires, and the respective municipalities will have to invest in simple boilers. This green energy system therefore contained a whole series of errors. And these mistakes probably didn't happen by chance, because this green energy is used by people who are linked to so-called oligarchs and various other political businessmen. Yeah. So we are in a situation where, for example, wind generators use electricity in Latvia to a much lesser extent than in Lithuania and Estonia, not to mention Western European countries. In fact, this disproportionate support and political business... The fact that this support is being quotad for political people has led to this. And now the Ministry of Economics should think about how to support connections and networks for wind stations that will be fully competitive in the electricity market by 2025 at the latest. But perhaps there will be no support in society, too, because it will seem to be a green energy that is absolutely expensive, harmful and similar. On what the Minister for Economics is doing today. We also met with the Minister for Economic Affairs in the Group. Consequently, licences received fraudulently are currently being revised, some of which have already been withdrawn. I hope that everyone will be looked at soon. Of course, only time will show whether they have been revoked with due skill so that they cannot then be tried by court. But it is clear that this is a piece of work that was to be done, and it has been done. In the same way, the public is informed of the possibilities to reduce their payments by removing unnecessary capacity. And the farmers' question, which was really missed in the past, is also being addressed. These are the reasons why I personally and also the National Association will not vote in favour of Mr Asheraden's resignation. But if we think about the future development of this system, then it is absolutely clear that some of the European Union's individual objectives - climate objectives, electricity targets and so on - should be seen in the context of the overall economy, and this has not been done in the country so far. I really hope that the next Latvian National Development Plan will pay much more attention to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U62	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U63	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, Minister! Now we have officially learned in Latvia that OIK is a nation milking event. Now we know it officially and let us not talk more about it somewhere behind the corner and so on. The OIC is a public milking event. Dear opposition! I think that this demand, in fact, for Mr Asheraden, would only be a huge gift, if he were to support his depression now, he will be happy. He would go to the side and be happy. On the contrary! It's a punishment! Let him handle it now - when the whole society is engaged; when electricity bills have grown three times; when people know what is going on now; when we finally say from the platform: OIC is a milking event... Now you want to take a responsible person aside to make him happy. He will then say, "I have already done, but you have not given me an opportunity." Give him the opportunity to correct the situation. Mr. Asheraden! The word is not a sparrow. You said that the OIC model had failed morally. That's what you said! This means that there will be no OIC anymore. This means that the OIK model has failed morally, as has the sales of song holidays. Right? Because we know that all of this is also morally bankrupt. Mr. Asheraden, you now feel that breath in your back, don't you? You feel like everyone is watching you, and you feel like a Zariņš... your back's warm, isn't it? ( The grass laughs.) It'll be all the time! It'll be all the time! And you will now have to correct this situation, because you have promised from this troupe that the OIC will no longer exist. Go and talk to your coalition representatives - the ZZS, the National Union - and turn it out for OIK! And one more thing. A scarlet on a regular... in fact has already heated all colleagues with their own requests. And it's right what he does, because it's his right and he's got to do it. But he's... Paragraph 14 of the agenda for today's sitting of the Saeima is again a request from Members rejected by the Commission. The Request Commission under Brigmanis has once again rejected another request addressed to you! This request concerns the provision of false information in connection with the inspection of subsidised power plants. You want to get out of here again! Stay on agenda item 14 And when Brigmanis comes to the platform according to the procedure and will say that the Request Commission has once again rejected with so many votes "no", with so many votes "for", come, use the situation and tell us what happened and why. Let Zarins have the answers, let me have the answers, let everyone have the answers, and let society have the answers! Because the OIC model is morally bankrupt. I call on you fellow Members not to support this depression. Let man do it! Let him do it! He has not had many months left until the elections.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U64	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on distrust to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Ašeraden! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 48, refraining from - 1. The draft decision is rejected. Dear colleagues, Members Kļaviņš, Putra, Sergeants, Brigmanis, Andris Bērziņš and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Ascolds Kļaviņš of the Saeima Member from the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Kļaviņš, Putra, Sergeants, Brigmanis, Andris Bērziņš and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the election of Parliamentary Member Ascolds Kļaviņš to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Afterta, Andris Berzins, Kļaviņš, Putra, Siliņš and others ask for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting “On the election of Saeima Member Inese into the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Afterta, Andris Bērziņš, Kļaviņš, Putra, Siliņš and others ask for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting “On the election of Saeima Member Inese into the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Dear colleagues, Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Customs Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau shall propose to the Member... Thank you. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On the International Convention for the Control and Management of Sea ballast Water and Sludges 2004” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation of Elections” submitted by the Member Raivja Dzinta, Gaida Berzina, Aleksandra Kiršteina, Einars Cilinska and Rihards Kola be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U65	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The question is elementary: do Latvian citizens need to know the state language? I very much hope that the absolute majority of those present have no doubt about the answer. Of course you need to know. Otherwise, how would citizenship be obtained? Latvian citizens should not have any problems in understanding and evaluating the pre-election information provided in the state language. In the elections to the Latvian Parliament, citizens are the ones who make a choice - who are entrusted with public power. Can we imagine that such decisions would be taken by people who, 28 years of independent life in Latvia, would not have learned the state language? Even if such citizens do exist, they do not have to suffer because of their attitude. Pre-election newspapers, booklets and posters in Russian often make Latvians feel as strangers in their own country. It is reprehensible that amendments to the law should be directed against Russian language or minorities. This is an absurd reproach. Latvian language is a common value not only for Latvians, but for all who respect the Constitution of Latvia and its foundations. And the Constitution makes it clear that there is one state language in Latvia. This means that all public administration processes should also take place in our common language. The election process means the involvement of citizens in public administration. Give just one argument why this process should take place in a foreign language! We are deciding today on the gradual transition of schools to national language learning. For years, this process has been slowed down with arguments about the interests of minorities. Now these same arguments are being used again in another area, where it is also necessary to de facto revitalise the role of the national language. What then is a priority identity - membership of a minority or membership of a state? I very much hope that we will say clearly and clearly: in matters of public administration, the country's common values, including the language of the country, are the primary ones. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for support for the referral of an amendment to the law to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U66	Thank you. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? Members have reservations. ( Insights: “There is no objection! And! None!’ ) Consequently, there are objections to Members of the public - Mr Rubika and Mr Zarins. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Pre-election Aggregation” to the Legal Commission, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 53, 25, abstaining - not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by the Member Raivja Dzinta, Gaida Berzina, Aleksandra Kiršteina, Einars Cilinska and Rihards Kola be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Municipalities. Are Members opposed to the draft law (Minimum: ‘ Yes! None!’ )... So Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 22, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Labour Law" presented by Member Edvina Šnore, Aleksandra Kiršteina, Einars Cilinska, Rihards Kola, Raivja Dzintars and Jānis Dombrava be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U67	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The purpose of the amendments to the law is to prevent the situation that has existed in Latvia since the Soviet occupation – the fact that employers are demanding Russian teaching and forcing their employees to use Russian as a kind of international communication language. That's what it was at the time of the GPSR, that's what it's like in many places today, and for each other to want it to go on forever. In the work ads we can still see that knowledge of Russian in Latvia is required by the maintainer, dishwasher, plumber, cook, welder and so on. Of course, it is not intended to communicate with foreign investors. In Russian, the worker is required to communicate with local colleagues, who have not been created or want to speak in Latvian. This, of course, has a very negative impact on the state of Latvian language in Latvia and has led to a situation where there is no field in which representatives of Latvian minorities would mostly use Latvian. Studies show that on the street, in a shop, in transport, to a doctor, in school, in cultural events – representatives of minorities use Russian rather than Latvian. And it is 25 years after restoration of Latvia's independence! However, the most negative Russianisation of the public environment affects those who do not speak Russian. Many young people therefore cannot get a job in Riga, and although they are often good specialists, with good education, they are forced to leave Latvia to look for work elsewhere. In order to prevent this discrimination, we have tabled these amendments to the law. We propose to strengthen the norm in the law, which provides for the right for every worker in Latvia to communicate with Latvian citizens only in the state language. Neither the doctor nor the seller in Latvia is obliged to speak Russian. It must be clearly stated in the law in order to protect those workers who are discriminated against and persecuted because they do not speak Russian. Whether or not communication with Latvian citizens takes place at work will be the responsibility of the employer and not the employee. No one's gonna need a passport. If a particular job is specifically related to foreigners and thus to specific language skills, then it will have to be justified and set out in a work contract. All others will be denied specific language skills. Thus, when performing their duties, people in Latvia will be free to use the state language without fear of breaking or doing anything wrong. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U68	Thank you. Do Members object to the draft law... ( Milestones.) So there are objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 21, for - 3. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “On amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer “On the protection of the ozone layer of Vienna” be submitted to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. The European Courts Commission has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On Support for the Further Progress of Rail Baltica Project”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Stepanenko: “Yes!” ) Member Julija Stepanenko has reservations. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we must vote in favour of putting this draft decision on the agenda for the next ordinary sitting. ‘ Lolita Čigāne, Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U69	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The European Affairs Commission of the Saeima has prepared this draft decision of the Saeima on support for the Rail Baltica project and its joint management because this project really requires clear political support. This high-speed railway line, connecting the north of Europe to the south of Europe, will finally also allow for the end of the European division in transport terms, when the Baltic States (including Latvia) were behind the Iron Curtain. During the Soviet occupation, all transport networks were developed mainly in the direction from east to west. We now have a concrete opportunity to connect with continental Europe in the direction of the north to the south. It is possible for us to do this together, and it is possible for us to finance it with the European Union's taxpayers' money. Overall, this project will cost EUR 5.8 billion. But the European Commission has said: money will be available for this project if the Baltic States work together. Dear colleagues, There are no other examples in the European Union where more than two countries have been able to agree on the development of very important infrastructure projects. Therefore, the European Commission is looking at this project with great optimism and with great hope that we will be able to reach political agreement and that the technical specification, procurement and design of this project will be carried out in a single joint venture. As there are some doubts about this, we need this very clear decision and support from the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This is a very good opportunity to leave behind the disputes between the past and the various economic disputes with our neighbours, and to go ahead with this joint project. In this draft decision, the European Courts Commission invites the Saeima to ask our Cabinet of Ministers to express the necessary support for the further progress of this project, as well as to address the Lithuanian and Estonian parliaments, inviting them to support this project. Colleagues! As regards the Rail Baltica project, very important decisions will be taken in March this year, so our political support is needed. And since we will not be able to speak at this parliamentary sitting today because of this procedure, I would ask for the next sitting to be put on the agenda and I would also ask all my fellow Members to speak in favour of this decision. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U70	Ms Jūlija Stepanenko, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U71	Dear colleagues, I will call on you not to support the progress of this draft decision in the way it is, for two simple reasons. First. As you can see, the draft decision has been adopted by the European Affairs Commission on 2 March this year. And I think it has been done in a very amusing way: by the methods worthy of the circus artist, Mrs Chigane noticed to eject Members in an urgent state of urgency, saying in the middle of the sitting that there will soon be no quorum (Dep. R.Kols: “Sent to Members!” )... see where the decision is, we vote now, and then we will be able to get there in editorial terms. In this way, as a matter of urgency in supporting the decision, through confusion, Members were denied the opportunity to discuss substantive amendments to the decision. ( Milestones.) Consequently, my desire to discuss with colleagues public participation in the supervision of the project and the responsibility of Mrs Rubes before we decide on such support was ignored and could not be discussed in substance. This was the case at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, and I believe that this is a gross violation of the principle of good governance, which I also pointed out in my letter to the Bureau, and which I spoke about yesterday with Mrs Chigan in the meeting of the Saeima Committee on European Affairs. I asked the chair of the Commission meeting yesterday to recast the decision by inviting the Foreign Affairs Commission, but my request was ignored. The second reason I am calling on you not to support this draft decision in exactly the way it is, concerns the substance of the draft decision itself. As is known from publicly available information, Mrs Rubesa, who is managing this project, lost the confidence of shareholders on 1 February this year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “It didn’t lose!” ) Many questions from Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues have not been answered. Dissatisfaction with (Interface.) Mrs Rubes' work style is growing, and without resolving this matter internally, we... It will not be right to shift responsibility to Estonian and Lithuanian colleagues (Dep. R. Kola’s intermediate call.) , all the more so, by exerting political pressure on the parliaments of these countries. Although the name of Mrs Rubesa does not figure out in this draft decision, it is quite clear that Mrs Chiganes, when offering Members to vote in favour of such a decision, hastens to be able to do so by a certain date. In particular, the story of shareholders' distrust towards Mrs Rubesa will continue at all (Dep. V.Spolitis: “Do not turn to conspiracy theories, please!” ), shortly after the vote by shareholders will be decided at the next RB Rail Council - this is scheduled for 22 March. More than that. The European Commission has stated that RB Rail is due to comply with its internal problems by 21 March this year. In what way is Mrs Rubes going to do this - this is not explained in her visits to the Commission, and Members have not put forward any rational proposal either. And if we really want to support this project and not lose European funding, to manage it with the best care in the interests of society and the principles of diplomacy, we should work together with our colleagues and work together to find a solution to this difficult situation, not to point out to the parliaments of other countries what they should do or to reject any delays. Colleagues! This decision seems to me to be after friendly handling - Mrs Chiganas hastened to provide Mrs Rubesa with the support of Members who are confused. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “What is confused?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Open your eyes, Julia.” ) Such use of Saeima resources to be friends is to discredit the Saeima's prestige at the highest level. Colleagues! I call on you not to support the draft decision in this way and return it to the Committee on European Affairs for recasting. Thank you, Mr. Spolish.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U72	Thank you. (Applause) One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision of the Saeima on support for the further progress of the Rail Baltica project. Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 76 (Interior: Yes!) Thank you very much. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “The only! One is confused!” ) The draft decision on support for the Rail Baltica project is on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima. On the granting of leave. For granting unpaid leave to a Member Aija Barča from 13 March to 15 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Aija Barča to grant her unpaid leave... I'm sorry what's going on with the electronic system? ( Internouncing call.) ... unpaid leave from 13 March to 15 March of this year. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Aija Barča from 13 March to 15 March this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the leave has been granted. The next item is the issue of granting unpaid leave to Member Lolita Chigan from 12 March to 16 March this year. ( Noise is on the grass.) The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Lolita Chigane to grant her unpaid leave from 12 to 16 March this year. It is also necessary to vote in favour of granting this leave. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Lolita Čigāne from 12 March to 16 March this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. So, too, Member Lolita Chigan has been granted unpaid leave. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On the withdrawal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of Askolds Kļaviņš, the Member of the Saeima from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of Askolds Klaviņš, Member of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Askolds Kļaviņš to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Askolds Kļavins to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Inese into the Education, Culture and Science Commission”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Inese into the Education, Culture and Science Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Inese into the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Inese into the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The order of business - examination of parliamentary requests. On the requests received. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium has received a request from Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Urbanoviča, Andra Morozova, Arthur Rubika, Vital Orlova, Igora Zujeva, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Jānis Tutina and Ivana Ribakova to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On Compliance of the Government of the Republic of Latvia’s Action with Latvian People’s Interest in Implementing the System of Support of Subsidized Electricity”. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U73	Colleagues! As you know, I have been conducting investigations for several months. I'm investigating the so-called OIC. During this investigation, I have gathered clear evidence that it has been politically covered from the outset. And this politically covered afer is still on-going. This, I hope, is the last request I submitted to the Saeima today as part of this investigation. In this case, it will be a breath not only for the Minister for the Accompanied Economy, but I think the Prime Minister will also have to feel this breath in the Accompanied. Because this is a very serious matter in relation to this OIC area. According to the opinion of the European Commission on this aid scheme for subsidised electricity, the so-called OIC aid... When notifying this aid, the European Commission has indicated that Latvia has not agreed it in good time. This means that, under European Union law, it was illegal to collect and grant such aid during a period for which the aid was not harmonised (i.e. from 2007 onwards). Which, in turn, means that all the politicians in power say that we cannot do anything and that we could not do anything with this OIC burden, is a lie. The public has been deliberately misled. What is more - what shows that society has been misled and that politicians have actually known it for a long time, and also knew what can be done, but did not do it? There is one small but, in my opinion, a very significant nuance in this European Commission decision, which is specifically mentioned. That is point 101 of the Decision. The European Commission notes that Latvia has renounced its right to adopt and notify its decision in Latvian. You Latvian fighters - do you think why the ruling politicians needed this decision not to be made and published in Latvian? Because this violation has been recorded there. It reveals that this OIC burden, which was imposed on society as a whole over many years, is illegal. Today we are making a request to the Prime Minister to this effect, and I call on the whole of society to follow up on his response to it. There are specific questions here, concrete facts, and we demand that the Prime Minister give his answer and explain this action, and explain how it is in the interests of politicians and officials in power to do so, and to specify which officials have done what they have done and why they have done so, and that specific legal provisions justify this act or omission...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U74	Thank you. The period of motivation for the request has expired.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U75	... has been carried out in the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U76	The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Jeļena Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden regarding the accuracy of the information provided by the Ministry of Economics regarding inspections of subsidised electricity power plants and compliance of the results of this verification with regulatory requirements. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U77	Dear colleagues, The Request Commission examined this request and found that our Commission is increasingly turning into an investigation commission where Members have... In fact, the issues that need to be addressed already go beyond their mandate. Lack of information, lack of capacity. As a result, the following decisions were taken by the Request Commission: With regard to this request: this request has been rejected. Regarding the way forward, I wrote a letter to the Prosecutor-General today; all the materials at the request of the Commission have been sent to the Prosecutor-General for evaluation - both the requests concerned and the replies of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Because of the questions that are addressed there... and, having taken the assumption that there is a certain area covered, I and the Commission generally considered it my duty to inform the Prosecutor-General of this type of statement. Let an appropriate investigation take place!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U78	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U79	First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Commission and the entire Appeals Commission for this decision, because I think it is very important that such a decision was taken within the Commission. Why? If we are talking specifically, even in the context of this same request, it is very important that the Commission instead of continuing to reject these requests, thus enabling those who want to use it in their own interests to say: you see, the Saeima also agreed that this area is legal... So this is the argument... it will be a strong counter argument for the interpretation by the Request Commission of these decisions adopted so far of the public interest. So thank you very much for that. For my part, as I also promised in the Panel on Petitions, I worked carefully to ensure that everything that has been provided... not only the information that has been provided at the Panel’s meetings... because we've had only 13 requests, but I've still had a whole series... Let us say that we have an information link with the Ministry of Economics. All in all, these have been 49 questions... Question sittings, where more information has been given... All of this is being gathered, is being put together, and an application is being made to the law enforcement authorities. And I think that work here will not only be done by the Prosecutor General's Office, but also by the Constitutional Protection Office, because what we are talking about is the largest robbery in the history of Latvia, which is still ongoing. And it is so serious that it threatens not only the well-being of society but also the competitiveness of our country; it is already a question of the security of our nation, our country. Therefore, I very much hope that the Director of the Office for Constitutional Protection, who has just obtained the support of the entire Saeima, will be responsible for accessing this information and will ensure that it will not accidentally disappear somewhere else in some of the “anals” of the investigation. Now, returning specifically to this request... The specific request is one of the components of my entire investigation into one of the episodes. Those who follow me know that there have been a number of directions in which I have been investigating, and one of them was linked to the actual activities of the Ministry of Economics. The Ministry stated that it seemed to be a fight against the burden of OIC. In fact, during the course of the investigation, I have found out and I can prove with facts that nothing like this is happening. It's a simulation of this fight. In fact, a cover is being created so that the OIC system, which is designed to be inappropriate to the public interest, can be covered and preserved, but it needs the helpers - something needs to be done to show that things are actually happening. One such aspect is the public-sector inspections of OIC stations announced by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Economics presents it to us as a strawberry fight, as a great contribution to this event. In fact, the full contribution of this measure is zero. All the millions you are told about are all imaginary. The real contribution is zero and probably even less. And maybe this fight will have a negative impact on society. I'll explain to you right away. So, what's really going on? Of these 400 currently working stations, let us call them OIC, the Ministry of Economics has chosen to test 39 stations. 39 stations, which in all respects resemble open container schemes by journalists, i.e. their installed capacity is significantly lower than that specified in the Ministry of Economics’ authorisation. The Ministry of Economics checks these 39 stations (according to the Ministry’s own information) for more than five months because, if the Ministry of Economics did not mislead the Saeima, the entire process started with the Order of the Minister of Economics No.202 of 29 September 2017 ‘On the establishment of a control group’. For a long time, the Minister of Economics hid and avoided discovering the composition of this control group so that we could not have a credible belief that this control group was, at all, competent to carry out these checks and that it was not in conflict of interest. Question: "Why was it to be hidden if the Minister for Economics really is trying and doing everything he needs?" Similarly, the Minister for Economics has long hid and avoided, and still does not want to tell the public what stations have actually been tested and on which it has been assumed that permits should be maintained. That is a very amusing situation, colleagues. 39 stations are tested for five months. According to external signs, the largest court can not even in theory work from these stations, since only seven of these 39 stations have concluded sales contracts at all with the public electricity trader for the sale of electricity. So the question is: what has the Ministry of Economics tested all this time? Last week, at the meeting of the Committee on Petitions, I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs directly: "How many of these 39 stations, which you have checked for more than five months, are actually built?" The Ministry of Economics could not answer at all: “We do not know, we continue to check.” Imagine five months, but they have not been clear at all: there are or there are no stations there! The second question asked the Minister: ‘Tell me, then, how many of these stations have actually started production within the time-limit laid down in the authorisation, because it is a condition of principle that this plant should be able to maintain the authorisation at all?’ The Ministry of Economy was also unable to respond to this. Colleagues! The question is, what do they even check there?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A heroic struggle is being imagined, and some permits are being revoked. In fact, these authorisations only started to be cancelled when I started my parliamentary scrutiny. Until then, the Ministry of Economics had announced the cancellation of the three authorisations. Now, we know, there's a lot more cancellations. But that salt is like this. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs had been responsible for all this time, these authorisations should have been withdrawn for a long time without checks. Checks were not necessary at all, as the signs show that none of the plants fulfilled the conditions laid down in the permit. Hence, the authorisations had to be cancelled. But this circus is played, this huge fight is shown. You are named hundreds of millions who are iconomised. In fact, there is an economy of exactly zero because none of these decommissioned stations actually works. They have not created any burdens at all. This is about the imaginary figures that these stations would have been in the future if they had actually been built and used in full the volume of the permit, which none of these stations seems to have been able to do at all. Yes, one of the stations that has actually been built and for which the permit has been revoked is “Riga Energy”. And with regard to all this story, when it comes to the checks carried out by the Ministry of Economics, the question arises: how has the Ministry actually checked its stations? Because we found out in the Commission and this is confirmed in writing... The Ministry of Economics says that during all these five months the actual on-the-spot checks... You know how many stations out of these 39? Eight! What has been done by the Ministry of Economics all this time? I think he has wasted time to enable other stations, actually working, to prevent possible irregularities and irregularities, but it is said to the public that there is an angry fight against this OIC burden. Another reason, I think, is that the Ministry of Economics has been playing for so long in that whole event (and this measure may end up having a negative effect on society!) is that the so-called container schemes, on which we had another request, in which I told you how they were implemented, have actually been directed, covered and implemented by the Ministry of Economics itself. It was the Ministry of Economics who legitimised the possibility of such schemes - that is, the economic operator may fail to fulfil the conditions laid down in the authorisation, but if he has managed to map the necessary documents (in particular the compatibility of these distribution system network acts with the system) within the time limit, including that he has complied with the permit conditions. The Ministry of Economics, in which we dealt with this request, was still in this position, that it was legal from the Ministry. And here, colleagues, there are those risks that I have warned the public about: if the Ministry of Economics still does not want to recognise that this type of authorisation is illegal, not to mention that it is not in the public interest, and it will still argue that the legalisation of container schemes, which has been carried out for years by the Ministry of Economics, is legal, then it will create a very strong position for all those businesses that now have been challenged and deprived by the Ministry of Economics. And as a result, we can come to the fact that what the Ministry of Economics is currently showing as a heroic fight against the Occist is, in fact, the rescue of the Occistians. That is, if these stations, which have not been built for five years and probably would not have been built... and, if this Oicist had lost this aid, he can now challenge it thanks to the decision taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to withdraw the authorisation. And thanks to the fact that the Ministry of Economics itself has legitimised these container schemes and continues to defend them, he will have a legal basis in court to win and say: “Look! I already wanted to do everything! I was honest! I did everything you said. You got my permission now! I will now recover this amount from the country, and you will not do anything!” And as a result, all this will come out again with a regular scheme such as the Occist, thanks to the action of the Ministry of Economics, will be able to earn very well. I am very concerned that perhaps in relation to the “Riga Energy”, whose owner, as we know, has been very, let us say, in close relations with those political forces who are now creating... carry out these checks... that there might be exactly the same scheme. This is one of the directions that I have drawn up, and these facts I will present to the relevant law enforcement authorities for evaluation. I very much hope that the Ministry of Economics will reassess its actions, evaluate what has been done in a responsible manner; that the existing Minister for Economics will evaluate what has been done with him in a responsible manner, and that he will have the political courage to make decisions that are competent, in the public interest. Unfortunately, so far he has not done so. Unfortunately, everything is going on as it has been so far. The OIC is politically covered, and there is no real public interest. One concrete example. Within the framework of this request, the Minister was asked why he had not started the checks at those stations which actually create this burden. According to the documents submitted, it is clear that it should be verified whether these stations operate or whether they fulfil the conditions for authorisation. One of the important factors we wanted to clarify in this request is self-consumption. In particular, thanks to the fact that the Ministry of Economics has deliberately issued permits for inadequate volumes, knowing that it is simply impossible to use this amount, because this amount was calculated from the total installed capacity and not from the difference between installed capacity and that needed for this plant to produce electricity... And due to the fact that the Ministry of Economics has not actually controlled the issue of self-consumption all these years, it has created a natural motivation for entrepreneurs to earn as much as possible of the authorisation given by the Ministry of Economics. To sell not as it is stipulated by law, i.e. within the framework of mandatory procurement, to sell electricity that remains after consumption, but to sell everything that is produced. In turn, buy the rest of the energy from Latvenergo. The Ministry of Economics does not want to check this. More! In the Cabinet Regulations, the Ministry does not want to provide for a transitional rule that I think this one of the most widespread frauds should actually be checked only from 1 July 2019. What's it all about? And then all of you are trying to say that the Ministry of Economics is really ready to fight seriously?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There are only two options here: either the Minister of Economics himself does not understand what is happening in his ministry or, in fact, there is still a cynical and refined political cover of this OIC-apera, making a beautiful show from which there is no real point. Most likely, the contribution may even be negative. But we will only know all this after the elections. The Ministry of Economics can then say: “What do you want? We already did!” When legal proceedings begin and are actually lost, the Ministry of Economics can say: “What do you want? We did everything we could. We are not guilty.” And as a result, as I said, the wolf will have fed, the dog will have praised itself, because the strawberries have scarred and guarded the sheep from the circumcision, but the sheep someone will continue to curl. Colleagues, I call for this request to be supported. I think it would also be a good signal to the Minister for Economic Affairs to finally start a real fight against the OIC, not perhaps to think about how to defend entirely other, very narrow economic (and not just) interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U80	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U81	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Although we did not listen to the Lord Zariņš, I watched and watched after my faces. He regularly tells these stories. But in reality, there has been a fantastic event. In my opinion, flowers are not just because today is 8 March (grabbings to all women's collectives!) , but also because Mr. Brigmanis has finally begun to do something in the Commission for Petitions. What he said... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Colleagues, I really had tears in my eyes when he said: “We are almost an investigative commission.” Undoubtedly, the Appeals Commission has to do so. And these things, I think, will happen more often. I do not know if you were watching the Gata Suhovecka show where all those times were assembled, when Mr Brigmann said that the Commission for Petitions rejected this request. This time, it is indeed an exception. Mr Brigmann, thank you, continue to work in this spirit. It's a good job, because we really have to do something. The following cases cannot be entered into the coalition cooperation agreement in an illegal manner: the work of the Request Commission is, in principle, paralyzed. I would like to say that I am opposed to the winding up of the Request Commission. After today, I completely change my mind. And I think we will still expect a lot of pleasant, legal surprise from Mr Brigmanis, who will turn to the prosecutor's office more than once in this way on the basis of proposals from the opposition. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “You are fired!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U82	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jeļenas Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons' request to the Minister for Economics Arvils Aseradens about the truthfulness of the information provided by the Ministry of Economics in relation to the inspections of subsidised electricity power plants and the compliance of the results of this verification with the regulatory requirements! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 44, for - 4. The request is rejected. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U83	Colleagues! ‘ Amendments to the General Education Act and Amendments to the Education Act are a single package. That is why I will remind you of what it is about. Here, as you remember from the first reading, there is a proposal for a gradual transition to Latvian-language studies in general secondary education and for changes in Bilingual education in primary school. And so the primary school stays... Bilingal training remains at pre-school level. The Commission held a wide-ranging debate on both draft laws. Members had submitted a number of proposals which in fact rejected the education and science ministry and Saeima's first reading support for the acquisition of graduated education in the Latvian-language secondary school. The Commission, in its understanding of the proposals put forward by Members Lazarov, Morozov and Pimenova, rejected these proposals. Members expressed concerns about teacher training and methodological materials; proposals were also made to provide training for private schools outside the common training system. The Commission also organised a meeting of the Commission in which the Latvian Language Agency informed about teacher training programmes. On the other hand, Mrs Silver's proposals were intended to move to the national language already in pre-school institutions. That is the nature of the Members' proposals. And now on the bill "Amendments to the General Education Act". A total of 11 proposals have been submitted. 1. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U84	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U85	Hello, Madam President. Hello, honourable Members! I don't really understand why we agreed to direct the bill today at 9.00... as was written in the order of business that I read on my computer... refer the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on General Education’ under the number 1127/Lp12 and ‘Amendments to the Law on General Education’ under the number 1128/Lp12. Unfortunately, we do not have such a draft law. With this number 1128/Lp12, we have the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act” rather than “Amendments to the General Education Act”. So we led two draft laws with different numbers. Again, ladies and gentlemen... I don't know what you're writing there on the paper... Mr Adamovich, Mr. Upenieks, Mrs Straujuma, Mr. Dzintari and... What was the fifth? I don't know how it's on paper, but it's at least electronic. You requested to move forward today nine in the morning with two draft laws on amendments to the General Education Act. It is necessary for all of us, including those in the position, to learn the correct writing of the Latvian language. But last week, we...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U86	Mr Klementyev, you had the opportunity to speak on this matter when it was on the agenda. But the Saeima has agreed to place these draft laws on the agenda to be discussed under the first section “Review of draft laws”.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U87	But there is no such bill! Unfortunately, there is no. Maybe we should fix that application.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U88	And I call you to talk about 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U89	Maybe then we need to fix that application so that it is right for the archive at least? Last week we also examined a collective application submitted to us by more than 10 thousand Latvians in the Saeima, unfortunately, the Saeima did not agree to direct it for further consideration. More than 10 thousand, whose signatures have been recognised, submitted their proposal to us and justified that these amendments do not comply with the Constitution of Latvia! On 13 May 2005 the Constitutional Court adopted a decision on this matter. Article 91 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia states: “All people in Latvia are equal before the law and the court. Human rights shall be exercised without discrimination." It's written! Unfortunately, at those three meetings of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, we did not receive an answer for all the materials that needed to ensure the transition to training in Latvian. At the meeting of the committee, we also talked about the fact that, unfortunately, we currently lack specialists, Latvian language teachers, who were also recognised by the Minister of Education and Science in his interview, I think last October. We know what it means to learn or teach such subjects as physics and chemistry in a foreign language. Unfortunately, we have a system where there are a lot of domestic tasks that neither children themselves nor their parents understand - perhaps because teachers are unable to explain or have no time to explain to children. And if we start to explain in Latvian now, then we will have even worse education. If you do not agree with me, you can ask: Why do we not have compulsory secondary education? Unfortunately, not all children are able to learn this. That's the truth! Then we may not need to accept it so that we do not move from nine classes to seven classes, because children cannot complete nine classes. Let us be pragmatic and move forward only with those draft laws that are in line with our Constitution. I call not to support the draft law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U90	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, is there anything to add to the first proposal? None. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 62, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U91	2. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U92	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U93	Further 3. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U94	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U95	Hello, colleagues! My proposal is as follows. If we look at official statistics, 95 percent of pupils studying in Bulgarian schools or minority schools speak Latvian well and they use... we see that when they go to higher education, they have a state language for the students. But what does the Ministry of Education and Science tell us? It points out that 30 percent of high - school students do not go to higher education, so they may have had poor knowledge of the language of the country. It is not a question of whether we need a state language. It is necessary, and we respect it very much and cherish it. But if we look at history a little bit... What is happening to the Ministry of Education and Science? The Ministry of Education and Science has been responsible for one party for the last eight years. Five ministers have changed over this time, and each has come through its own reform. Everyone comes with something of his own, and in the end we get nothing. Mr Šadurskis works with ambition: as part of one reform, we have 30 sub-reforms. I don't think you're gonna finish it, Mr. Shadursky. If we look at the numbers we hear from students during the work of the commission... how much will be paid to our university institutions for reforms of the University Law. And not just university institutions! Here, too, we can talk about the use of language. What is the cost of having to take extra time for children and also for parents to spend more time on learning what they are learning? I counted 30 reforms, but I guess I won't talk about them this time. What I want to say is that all the other educational reforms have remained on paper, but it is not why this reform is being implemented and implemented at incredible speed. And it happens in the pre-election period! Let's look at the deadline! We are talking about proportions in minority schools - 80 to 20. And the reform will end in 2021. But in 2022 we will return to it, because again there will be elections and again there will be something to talk about, because, as Raivis Dzintars said to the Commission, we go to complete Latvian and schools will only be in Latvian. But why are we 25 percent... Why minority pupils (and it is the fourth of all students who study in Latvia!) We don't let you learn in your country... ( Milestones.) in their mother tongue? In the mother tongue, yes! I'm sorry! You don't have to stick to one word now, that's stupid! We do not allow them to learn their mother tongue. But at the same time, let's see, there are 28 languages for which Latvia has reciprocal agreements, and 24 of them are European languages. And we acknowledge them, let us learn them here. Please support my proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U96	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U97	Go on 4. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U98	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 20, it's against - 61, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U99	Go on. The proposal by Member Lazareva cannot be put to the vote, as it is in line with the previous proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U100	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U101	6. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U102	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U103	7. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U104	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U105	8 / 8 - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U106	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U107	9. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U108	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 24, it's against - 60, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U109	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U110	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U111	And 11. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U112	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U113	I therefore ask for support on behalf of the Commission for the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on General Education.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U114	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on General Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U115	The Commission therefore calls for proposals to be submitted for the third reading by 13 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U116	March 30, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U117	13.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U118	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 13 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U119	As I said before, these two draft laws are linked. I therefore propose to start examining the proposals. 1. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U120	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U121	2. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U122	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U123	Proposal No 1 was unable to apply. I'm sorry. Colleagues, there's an old anecdotes, whose main idea is that if a tooth hurts, we need to break our leg. It's like this. I understand that this is the principle followed by the Ministry of Education and Science at the forefront of its work and proposals. If the defenders of so-called Russian schools were initially in shock and opposed the reform of state-funded minority schools, then it seems that this topic has become less relevant now because the Ministry has gone even further. Now we will also ban private schools where children study Russian. Let me explain again so that everyone understands. We have 24 European languages recognised. We also have reciprocal agreements with countries whose languages will be taught in private schools. It is Ukrainian, it is Belarusian, it is English. That is completely absurd, after all. The unwillingness to pay for Russian-language learning from the budget, however, could still be accepted. But where is the problem with private schools? Where? I said it was difficult. Because the Russian-speaking people are paying taxes, right? It could not be said that Latvians should pay for Russian education. But the absurdity with private schools is inconceivable. In which country have you seen that a minority, whose children make up a quarter of all the students, would not be allowed to learn their mother tongue even for a fee? There's no such country! It must be acknowledged that the Ministry has hid and formulated this ban very much. Formally, schools are no longer prohibited. They will simply not be able to obtain accreditation. There is no special agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation. I asked Mr Šadurskis at the meeting of the Commission: is such a contract planned or is there any possibility of such a contract being considered? To which the answer was: “Russia does not comply with the Minsk Accord”. But, excuse me, what is the blame for those children of Latvia who have their mother tongue in Russian? Whom are they guilty of? The failure to comply with these agreements? If Mr Shadursky is so concerned about the failure to comply with these agreements, perhaps he must now go to Russia, where we know there will be elections on 18 March, and there must be a debate on this. Maybe more... and bigger will have an effect. Unfortunately, there is only one reason for such amendments. And it's political, nothing more. And I have no doubt in this case that the question of schools is just the beginning. For the time being, all who know only Russian will be identified as a non-volatile state or suspect... and so on. Colleagues! I would like to remind you that, however, we live in a democratic country, not in North Korea. I invite you to support my proposals and those of Pimenova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U124	The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague, Janina Kursīte-Pakule, and we welcome him! (Applause) For the notification of the results of the registration, the name to the member of the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U125	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Andris Buikis, Valters Dambe, Valdis Kalnozols... yes, Jānis Klžads, Ainars Latkovskis, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Romanas Mežeckis, Romanas Miloslavskis, Sergejs Mirskis, Imants Raudnieks, Valdis Skujiņš, Laimdota Straujuma... And...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U126	Interruption until...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U127	... Juris Šulcs and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U128	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U129	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. We are following the debate on 2. - the motion put forward by Member Pimenova. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U130	Hello, colleagues! I congratulate International Women's Day and wish the Saeima Members, workers, journalists and all the ladies present a lot of happiness! This proposal, which I am now reporting on. I propose the exclusion of a provision in the draft law which replaces the free choice of language for teaching in private education with training in public language. Until recently, those who argued about children's right to learn family language were encouraged to establish private schools and to go there in their mother tongue - if they were very willing - because the law allowed private schools (I quote) to be taught in another language. The government is now going to close these gates as well. The first-reading discussion gave us all a moment of truth when Mr Šadurski publicly refused to recognise education as a service and stressed that education is a purely public function, so the state sets out requirements that need to be met. It should be concluded from this that the country always knows better than the parents of the children, who are good and bad. And if the State delegates this function to private educational institutions, they, in Mr Shadursky's opinion, are left to fulfil these requirements and not to ask unnecessary questions. Mr. Shadursky, you're very active at the place of the country! You exploit the authority that the nation has acquired because of its difficult history. Remember, though, who owns the power of the state! And not only in Latvia, but everywhere democracy arises. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Now look at the plates at your back! The nation feeds the country. You do not have a single penny of what you called a function, but there is only the money that is paid into the budget by the consumers of the "functions" you provide. It is this that gives them the right not to enjoy your favour, but to demand the education they want. These rights are protected, including in Latvia's international obligations, but you are challengingly violating them with amendments to your laws. As I said, during the first reading of the draft law, Latvia signed the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, Article 13 of which states: “As part of education systems, the Parties undertake to recognise that persons belonging to national minorities are entitled to establish and run private education and training institutions.” I'll repeat... Until now, no one has even tried to doubt that this article establishes the right of minorities to teach their children in their mother tongue in private schools. The Consultative Committee of the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe has already once indicated to Latvia that the introduction of mandatory Latvian language use in private educational institutions is not permitted. In its 2008 report, the Consultative Committee concluded that public grants were not sufficient to justify such private intervention. In the Committee's view, the introduction of a mandatory use of the Latvian language (quot) "should not hinder the efforts of minorities to meet their needs by means of a private education system". ( End quoted) Consequently, the Consultative Committee of the Council of Europe reminded Latvia that minorities had their own needs. Now Latvians in schools do not even resort to the search for excuses such as state grants, but take away from the language of instruction of minority minorities of the school, making a self-confident reference to the Constitution and the noble aim of strengthening the Latvian language. But this chosen tool will reinforce resistance, and the Latvianisation of private schools will make it even stronger. It will reduce the positive attitude towards Latvian rather than strengthen it. And that's a real risk. Please remember that! I propose the exclusion of a provision in the draft law which replaces the free choice of teaching languages in private education with training in the state language. I call for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U131	Thank you. The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U132	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Do you not find it absurd that, 27 years after the restoration of national independence, we are discussing what language to teach in our schools? Do you not think that we are so entrenched in various judgments, objections, reservations, speculations and half-truths that we have lost meaning in these discussions and this is explained by the fact that education in Latvia must be in Latvian? ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) And then we hear: children are hard, parents are hard... Honourable Members! All these children were born in the Republic of Latvia. Those kids who start schooling or have already started... their parents were born and raised in the Republic of Latvia. What are we talking about? Can we imagine that Sweden, England, France, Germany, Italy... that in any of the European countries, the local people do not speak the language of their own country? Why is Latvia an exception? Why is it difficult for parents to do so? It's just not serious! During the adoption of the budget, journalists have asked Members from time to time how good they are in the budget figures and in the accompanying legislative package. It is now such a beautiful campaign, each time the budget is adopted, so that Members can show their extensive (or quite the contrary) knowledge. On one occasion, journalists spoke to Members and said: “Can we now switch to English to make sure that Members are familiar with foreign languages?” It would be interesting to know how it is with Latvian. How about doing an experiment and talking to the Members in Latvian? It seems to me that there are Members who have never climbed this platform because they do not know the language. Nor do Members, not just citizens of the country! A little bit about private schools. The Russian people are paying taxes, as Mr Morozov said. Yes! If they did not pay them, they would have to deal with the law enforcement authorities. It is normal that all people pay taxes. And if we're talking about a private sphere, I'm sorry, education is not a private sphere! Education is a public function that can also be delegated to educational institutions set up by individuals, legal entities, but we have a common standard of education - one for all! And it is united in terms of mathematics, physics and Latvian. And language can only be fully learned by learning not only the language but also the subjects in that language. And if we are talking about the private sphere - yes, non-formal education is a private sphere and the state does not regulate the use of languages in non-formal education, but a state-recognised document is issued on formal education. A common standard must therefore be met here. And very often... Today, we heard from Mr. Pimenova: if you intensify your Latvian language learning, it will result in a negative attitude and will exacerbate problems even further - and so on, and so on. You know, Mr Pimenova, we also want to step up the acquisition of STEM areas: mathematics, engineering, including physics, chemistry, and the economy - all sciences. And yes, then there is a serious risk that it could create hatred for mathematics, for example. Let's stop speculating on these fools! And Mr Morozov also mentioned in his previous speech... he quoted or told some of what I said, talking about transnational agreements. I'll tell you all about this episode. Why are we not currently planning to sign an agreement with Russia on cooperation in education? It is good that both Contracting Parties fulfil their obligations. Unfortunately, there is no such conviction about Russia. And in this regard, I mentioned the Minsk Agreement as one of the criteria. Russia would become a civilised state with which it is worth concluding agreements if it were to comply, for example, with the Minsk agreements, as well as fulfilling its international obligations and ending the occupation of Crimea. Honourable Members! This is not Shadursky's law. This is a government-driven bill. And, Mr Pimenova, yes, the power of the state belongs to a people who realises it through the Presidents elected in direct democratic elections - you honourable Members - and that is why your kind attention and evaluation is a draft law at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U133	Thank the Minister. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U134	Dear colleagues, Welcome to the next lecture on democracy, on rights, responsibilities, on public interests, on taxes. Perhaps it would be interesting if it were read in this particular case by the Head of the State Language Centre and not by the Minister of Education and Science. One thing is clear here: there are mixed objectives, resources and instruments. If the aim is to ensure that all those living in Latvia speak the Latvian language perfectly, it is an honorable goal that really needs to be respected and pursued. But we are talking about instruments. The Minister mentioned the words “education standards” in only one sentence. What does that mean? The standard of education in any field is the amount of requirements that are imposed either on the product or on the learning process, the amount of knowledge and the quality that are also regulated. But nowhere, no standard talks about how that standard can be achieved. If you want to make our production first in the world, we will not dictate what language technology should be. We will talk about the standards that end products have to meet. Education also creates an end product. And that's the amount of student knowledge. But this is a special situation. This is not about the education system as a whole. This is just about the part of the system called private education. And here really, those standards apply to private institutions, as is public education. The only difference is the methods and means by which these standards are achieved. And there's a free choice between private schools, how to do it. If those standards are not achievable, it may be required against the school in question that, here, it does not comply with this essential requirement. That is why what has been said in the proposal tabled by Member Pimenov makes very deep sense. And let's not talk about security matters, or about tension or some contrast. This is another subject. In this case, let's talk professionally. And I would also recommend that the Minister do this in future, because so far, unfortunately, he has not really been able to see that he has spoken professionally. I call for support for Mr Pimenova's proposal. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U135	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U136	Good afternoon! Allow me, too, to express my opinion. There's a country like that... Its capital is not quite the capital of the European Union, because the capital of the European Union is Strasbourg, as you know very well. But there is Belgium, which... if you ask a nation that is the capital of the European Union, many will say Brussels. There, in Belgium, there are three societies - Flemish, the German-speaking people and another third company speaking French. And in every province... I can even show you how it looks... Please, its top picture... Please! On the right... German-speaking people live there - 75 thousand. I'll show you... Yeah, up. To be clear. Yeah. And in each of the provinces it is allowed to go to public places, to public institutions and to request information in their own language and get a reply in that language. But all three languages are taught there in school, and this is normal. And we don't want to give up... to say that we will not learn Latvian, we always ask: give us quality specialists who teach Latvian! Please provide more resources for teaching the state language in schools and kindergartens! You did it, Minister? There's no... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So far, we don't have enough specialists. There's no money. So what do we want to achieve? We're going to put it in order now, 80 and 20...? But, in fact, we cannot do that. We cannot do it! If, for example, tomorrow... if immediately after the adoption of this law all these parents will bring their little children to kindergarten, will the Latvian preschool institution accept them? No, no. The answer will be: “Your children don’t know how to speak Latvian, I don’t want to torture them. Mommy, my group has already been completed!” So what do we want to achieve with this? Let us put everything in place from the beginning so that there are its free places so that anyone who wants his or her child to learn the language of the country from before can take his or her child there and begin to learn the language from before! We have been talking about it for 27 years, but we are not making any progress just because it is good in politics to use this justice all the time before the elections. But at least we do! Let's close this... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's leave this... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let parents answer, as recorded in the Constitution, for the education of their children! Until the age of 18, each parent is responsible for his or her child. Give them the best education! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U137	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U138	Dear colleagues, It's very brief about taxes. Mr. Shadursky! What you said was truly amazing, and I would like to ask you: Do you pay taxes from your own pocket or do you pay taxes instead of taxes by the state? And do you earn this salary or just get it when you work in the public sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U139	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U140	Dear President, Honourable Members! My speech was provoked by Mr. Klementyev, who put everything here. In Belgium there are minorities... The territorial principle of minorities, and in Flanders, all schools work and teach only in Dutch, Mr Clementyev. There, French is just like a foreign language. It's exactly the same thing in Wallonia, in the south. There all schools work and teach children in French, and in Dutch you can learn only as a second language, how to learn a foreign language. No school works there and does not teach children in Dutch. Switzerland, which is not a Member State of the European Union, is also often mentioned here. But it is a country of the European Economic Area and there is exactly the same order. Territorial minorities with their historical territory cantons... In Geneva, you can't in German... You can't even enter the store to buy something... All schools operate in French. In Zurich, you can buy everything in German, but you can’t buy everything in French. Not mandatory. Yes! You can learn as second, as third language... But schools work, Mr. Clementyev, in Belgium, Flanders only in Dutch. Now about Latvia. Here's a lot of mix... Here the Minister rightly said that there is a common standard of education. This is the state of Latvia, and if you want to get an education diploma, then you have to comply with these Latvian language requirements and Latvian language education standards. And those who refer to taxes... I would like to remind you once again of the last census of the pre-war nation in Riga. Russians as the fourth minority or ethnic group behind Latvians, Jews and Germans with nine percent or 34 thousand inhabitants. So imagine what remained of these 34 thousand so-called socialist revolutions after 1940, when many white-headed organizations were closed, there were mass repressions and practically the entire Russian-speaking middle class was sent to Siberia. During the war, five thousand young people, namely Russians, were called into the Latvian Legion, some of whom fell, some emigrated after the war, and those who remained were repressed and re-ported. Seven police battalions, Russians, were operating during the war, all of which were repressed - sent to Siberia with all families, where they died. I think of those 34 thousand remaining good if a third. So what is it suddenly about minority schools after the war? They are arrivals, more than 300,000, who thought they could impose a new order here. And, honourable colleagues, if you have come to another country or if you are the descendants of these arrivals, you must adapt to the education system that is here. After all, we do not go to Russia and do not demand the restoration of 70 secondary schools and techniques that were operating there until 1937. No treaty will help or restore anything here. I therefore call for this proposal to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U141	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U142	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! As an Estonian of Latvia, I was encouraged to come here and yet to express my opinion on this language issue, what Mr Klementyeva said about Belgium and the example of Belgian federalism for Latvia. In my opinion, this example is not really appropriate here for a simple reason: Latvia is a unitary country - exactly the same as Belgium was until 1993, when 163 years after independence was declared (after Napoleon wars in 1830) Belgian voters decided in a referendum that this country could be constructed differently. It took 163 years! If we talk about Latvia's peripetations and about language policy, we still have to face the consequences of the Soviet occupation. So maybe we will address the issues in a step by step: let's strengthen Latvian positions and then maybe we can also talk about more innovative approaches. If we are talking about more innovative approaches, then I remember how I learned Estonian during the Soviet occupation. I have to express my greatest gratitude to my mother, who took care of it by sending me to my grandparents in Tallinn. But during Soviet times, unfortunately, no Estonian language training was possible here in Latvia. After restoration of independence in Riga, Riga Estonian School was restored. There are these opportunities! No self-respecting Estonians in Latvia come to mind the idea of asking for something more than has been given by the legislator of Latvia. In particular, we have our own school, we can strengthen our culture, but at the same time, at the end of the Riga Estonian school, all Latvian Estonians speak Latvian. The fact that the basics of education are in Latvian is the most important thing so that later, secondary school finally, you can join the university. What concerns the Estonian language - please! There's Turbat right across the border. Therefore, any other minority in Latvia should think the same way. So there are no exceptions here. I call for this offer not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U143	The name of Member Ivan Klementyev, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U144	This information, which I said from this troupe, I did not know, was provided by the Belgian Parliament. That is official information. They prepared a presentation and sent out to other Members, including Ukrainian Members. That was last November. If you touch history like this, let's see how it was 300 years ago, in which language it was spoken here! Why do you only mention occupation, 1940? Who conquered Riga? From the King of Sweden... 300 years ago... Yeah... We need to know that too. What about Russia? Russia appeared here officially from the 12th century - from the 12th century, not only yesterday. ( Internouncing call.) For that... And let us live in harmony with our souls and with all the democratic nations (Interview: “When we change the state system, think about that language!” ) by law!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U145	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U146	Colleagues! I didn't want to talk, but now there's one person in front of you who went to Australia school, without teaching any English words. A little bit about that background... Between 1950 and 1960, over a million immigrants were influxed in Australia. More than a million - ten years! And most of them didn't learn to speak English, because they came from Eastern Europe - including 20,000 Latvians, 20,000 Estonians, some 100 or 200,000 Polish, as well as from southern Europe - some 300 thousand Italians. You think someone in Australia told them: “Behold, here you have a school! Learn your language!’ Is that so? It's enough to think so! And there was nowhere in Australia where there was no school without foreigners, immigrants, children. In my primary school, the technique was full of them. All right, then what did we do? We were landed in a school bench. Well, I listened to what it was like. I'm scouting. And that was the only option. And, you know, in three months, I'm speaking English! (Applause) Forgive me, Australian! Australian! And when I was there for the fifth month, I was told, “Oh, you’re a foreigner, an immigrant, you have to read children’s books in large letters so that you can read!” I was so angry, I shot back! I need proper books. There you go! It was real integration: one and two! There is no such problem in Australia, because everyone has gone through one school system with one standard. Of course, on the weekend we could go to Latvian school. Yes, please! No fault! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U147	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U148	Dear colleagues, It is not a shame not to know anything, but it is a shame to refuse to learn. I haven't had to hear so many lies from this pub. Mr Shadursky argued that this is a general principle: one country - only one language in school. It's a lie, Mr. Shadursky! You will find any relevant book! Follow the Consultative Committee reports on the State of the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities! When I spoke from this troupe in the debate on the first reading, I listed a long list - more than 30 Member States of the Council of Europe providing public education in minority languages. So you just deceived... first of all, my colleagues. Now take it once and read it! You are now adults - Members. I hope you do not have a special problem with English, although much of these materials have been translated into Latvian. You mentioned Germany. Germany provides publicly funded education in Danish, sorbic and French languages. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “Turku no!” ) That is first. ( Internouncing call.) Secondly. ( Milestones.) Colleagues! What Mr Kirstein said, I regard as a speech of hatred. Mr Kirštein calls on you to violate the Constitution. According to the Constitution, all citizens are equal regardless of nationality. I'm not an immigrant. My ancestors lived here for centuries. And it's a lie that their old Russians are no longer there, that all of them are young. It's not like that! According to the population register, 42 percent of ethnic Russians were registered as Latvian citizens in 1992. Among Poles, there were almost two thirds, among Jews - about half, among Ukrainians - much less - about eight percent. Wait! This means that all these persons are descendants of Latvian citizens. What nine percent are you talking about? Naturalised citizens have absolutely the same rights as native citizens, and this is written in the Constitution, it is written in the Citizenship Law. So you call for discrimination against naturalised citizens. This is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to Latvia's international obligations. Third. We are talking a lot about common values. What are its common values? That is, first of all, democracy. That is also the equality of all people. And that was also the case in Latvia, as we say. In fact, you completely distort this concept of a democratic diversity of Latvia. Diversity is value. You know, after all, the European Union documents, where true diversity is declared a value. So we're so many times... I don't see... Mr. Harvest, do you remember the People's Front time? ‘ Latvia is our common home.” How personal have you done to achieve respect for all people, regardless of nationality? What has happened to you, what has happened to all of us that this concept is completely changed? Yes, of course, I really want to live in a democratic Latvia and follow the traditions established by Minister of Education Rainis. I understand that, unfortunately, we now have the Minister of Education and Science, Shadurski, who is acting in a way that is absolutely contrary to what Rainis did. Now times are changing, people are changing. And it is a lie that what you offer is in accordance with Latvian traditions and democratic principles. And the last one. You are constantly lying, claiming that children do not want to or parents do not want to learn Latvian. It's a lie. Already now the binary system works well. In your signed ministerial answers to our questions, it is black to white asserted. Well, what are you talking about here? Well, I'm sorry, Carly, you can't do that! I claimed that today the graduates of minority education programmes speak well in Latvian. These children join in Latvian universities without problems. Show me the data that overturns it! ( Insight: “It’s enough! ”) ) Well, there are no such! You just... What do you want to prove? I understand that a large number of Members simply do not know what their mystical Russian schools are. You've never been there.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U149	Mr Cilevič, your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U150	Colleagues, confidence can be any, but stop lying once! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U151	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky. ( The paragraphs are: “Ainar! Ainar!’ ) Mr Latkovsky, you have taken up the debate. ( The box “When was it? ”) ) The Member refused. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “He just likes to hit the buttons!” ) Name of Member Varis Krūmiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U152	Good afternoon! There are many things I have in this education reform... I will not say that I do not support it, but I have such thoughts that perhaps everything is too fast and is wrong. But on the issue of language, of course, I support both Mr Šadurskis and the fact that we need to move to Latvian-language learning. And it's hard for me to understand whether we don't want to learn Latvian or not within 27 years. One example of life. I already said that in the commission, but let everyone hear it. Two TTT basketball players concluded good contracts abroad when independence was regained. One went to Croatia, the other to Germany. Both of them had small boys whom they, of course, took with them. When they played one season in the country, the children contacted and went to the local kindergarten, lived together with local children, boys, girls, of course, and they learn perfectly in the course of the year... one learns German, the other learns Croatian. Now that they have grown big, one of these young people plays in the Latvian basketball team U20. We go to the tournament in Croatia, and the team is offered a guide that will be the same as an interpreter so that everyone can understand, but we don't need an interpreter - the boy has learned perfectly Croatian during this one year, he speaks, he understands everything. There is absolutely no problem with learning the language if it starts to be done in time. On teaching teachers in Latvian. For those who have not yet obtained C1 categories (as it turns out, last year 20 teachers working in Russian schools, C1 category could not be arranged), the Latvian State has provided such a very, very large bonus of 3.3 million – support to teachers in implementing education in Latvian. It is very clear that within four years teachers will be offered free courses of 120 hours, and in total they will be 3,500 educators... There will be 120 hour courses where those who have not yet reached this C1 level will be able to go and learn and learn the language so that they can work well at school. So, in principle, I don't see the problem of moving to Latvian-language learning. And by the end. Do not move fully to Latvian. It seems to me that a little bit of its colors are concentrated. The first six classes - 50 to 50; 7-9th classes - 80 to 20 and only in secondary school are such that they learn fully in Latvian. In addition, knowing that 92 percent of students in minority schools also chose to take all the exams in Latvian... Well, I don't know... We are actually going to that. I do not see any particular major problems with this transition to study in Latvian. I think everything is very logical, correct and understandable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U153	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U154	Dear colleagues, In Poland, there is a method of deliberately replacing an object - to answer questions that are convenient to answer, and not to answer questions that simply do not want to answer at all or there are no answers. This method is called demagogy. None of my arguments was answered by the Minister except one. He agreed that the government belongs to the nation. Thank you for that. I did not refer to parents ’ divorcing that it would be difficult for their children to learn a different language. That's what I didn't say. This is about something else. It's not about it, it's hard or easy. Parents simply want to see themselves in their grandchildren who would stay here, in Latvia, for life instead of going to Russia, Belarus, Israel, Germany or elsewhere. Latvia is their homeland, and they want their grandchildren to stay here and remain with their culture, with their main language, where they are brought up in the family. That was well understood by the People's Front. Here was mentioned twice how the Latvian People's Front promised Latvia to all persons belonging to minorities that it would be in the future of Latvia. It turned out it was a lie. I'm sorry, it was a lie. If we do not change anything in this reform, these lies will remain lies. It is hard for me to imagine that the Minister does not understand that the language of instruction and the subject language are of two different quality. This is why parents want their children to be raised at school in the language in which they are raised. I have now finished, President. It is not the difficulty of learning subjects that push parents away from Latvian as a language of instruction, but it is a language of the family that is very important to them, and they simply do not want to lose their children if most of the studies take place in another language.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U155	Mr. Pimenova, sorry, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U156	Thank you for your attention. Thank you, President, for giving me the opportunity to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U157	Thank you. The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U158	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, THAT was what my colleagues wanted to call me. Now I'm here in front, and I can tell you a few things. First of all, about language. I was 30 years old when I came to Latvia. Pauls Stradins began working at a clinical university hospital, and colleagues did not speak to me in Russian. ( Interface: Bravo!) ) For me to learn Latvian, I did not speak Russian specifically, even though I had finished my aspirature in Moscow. (Applause) And quickly, in two and a half months, it was possible to learn physics, chemistry - all that the doctor needs. Otherwise, I can't imagine that. It was 1985. “ How old were you, Romuald? You weren’t a student then!” ) Next - about the People’s Fronts. Yes, in the second programme of the Latvian People's Front it was written that there would be an opportunity to get secondary education in national language. And Estonian, Lithuanian, Polish, Ukrainian, Jewish schools were established, which were violently closed by the Soviet government in 1940, deprived of this opportunity. Now these schools are the right ones, the right ones! - the example of national minority schools. Riga Lithuanian Secondary School is one of the best secondary schools in Riga - from the best secondary schools! - Because there's all that is needed, together with learning Lithuanian language, culture, history and ethics... all objects are served in Latvian in the proportion that does not violate the Education Law and the State Language Law as intended. Unfortunately, most of the so-called Russian schools do not respect this, and there is the root of the problem. And to say today, you see, the People's Front promised in the second programme... Dear colleagues, At that time, there was also a popular front in Russia. Russia moved towards democracy. We thought that we would further develop our country with that country in the rock. Today, Russian is used as a weapon of ideological struggle. And even Russia's allies, such as Kazakhstan, have banned Russian from speaking in government sittings by order of the President. They switch from Cyrillic to Latin alphabet. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Why? Because this language unfortunately... Indeed, the great, rich history, culture and language are used as a weapon of ideological struggle. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Exactly!” ) Of course, education, its quality and learning opportunities are in the first place, but also do not detract from what I said, namely that this language is being used. I think the compromise in all this... It is precisely that the subjects in the higher secondary classes will be studied in Latvian that will perhaps reduce the possibilities of this conflict with which Mr. Pimenov threatened. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U159	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U160	Dear colleagues, We have a very interesting phenomenon: not to talk about a concrete proposal, but about everything from history, history, emotions and so on. I can say that I have graduated from Riga Technical University in 63rd century, when it was also called the Riga Polytechnic Institute. I studied in the Latvian flow, because there was no Russian flow at that time in the Faculty of Chemistry. I studied for five years in one group with one of the founding members of the National Association, Juris Dobeli. I have also graduated from an educational institution called Lomonosov Gymnasium or the 23rd Middle School of Riga, where the studies were conducted in Russian. What kind of person can blame me for having a bad language or I don't love that language, I don't respect it, I don't respect it, I don't respect it, and so on? I think no one will say that. But in this case, it is not about language but about the right of private institutions to organise their own teaching process in accordance with the standards of education that are not disputed. This includes a standard determining the extent of knowledge of the state language. I call for support for Mr Pimenova's proposal. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U161	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U162	When the old battalion has finished speaking, I will tell the young people what I mean about this. I don't understand why we talk only about Russian-speaking people, but don't talk about Chinese, and don't talk about Vietnamese people at all, but the law also contains... Well, they're talking about it. Let's imagine: come to us Vietnameses... rich Vietnameses, rich Chineses. They come and start to live here, and they make their kindergartens, their schools, and now this law will allow them to learn Chinese, let's take it. Now he's going to get to Class 9, and then the Ministry of Education and Science will give him a paper, a document that he's a Chinese graduate of primary school: and now go on! Well, go somewhere! Where is he going to go further with Chinese in Latvia? I'm not talking about Russian. Or, let's take the Vietnamese... And then, if a Vietnamese also completes high school with this degree, there's some sort of nonsens. Therefore, in order to have the same standard, there must be one national language. And now let's even have a memory of the serpentine a little back! More recently - and relatively recently - there was a referendum on multilingualism in Latvia. What was the outcome of the referendum? ( Interface: “86 - for”!) ) The result of the referendum was that there is one state language in Latvia – the Latvian language. The Chinese and Vietnamese people will then also have to learn in their educational establishments, in private or public language, in Latvian. And that's it! It's over! Please do not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U163	I closed the debate. Mrs Straujuma, is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U164	The Commission had a similar type of discussion and the Commission did not support the Member's proposal. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U165	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U166	3. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U167	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U168	I'm going to keep talking about private schools. In my proposal, I offer general education and vocational education in private education institutions, in primary and secondary education, in the state language, as well as in the official languages of the European Union and in minority languages. I would like to draw attention to the fact that today we are not talking about learning Latvian, but about how to learn knowledge in educational institutions in general. And we are not talking about immigrants, we are talking about Latvian citizens. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U169	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U170	Yeah. The proposal is similar to the previous one. The Commission was not supported. On behalf of the Commission, please do not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U171	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U172	4. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported. ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U173	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -22, against -62, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U174	5. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U175	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -22, against -62, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U176	6. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U177	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -22, against -62, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U178	7. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U179	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U180	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the draft law on the Russian language programme, including in private institutions, imposes strict requirements on educational institutions with minority children. At the same time, however, it is proposed to supplement the Education Act with a new point, which provides for the implementation of general education programmes by means of integrated learning content and foreign language learning, in order to ensure language learning in other Member States of the European Union, subject to the national standard of education. It turns out that certain strict proportions are set for teaching in Russian, but there is no proportion and no requirement for learning in English or French at all. Therefore, doubts arise as to the purpose of the draft law. We are talking about Latvian. With such changes, can we provide children with the opportunity to continue education at Latvian state universities and increase competitiveness on the Latvian labour market? Have the majority of Members examined the substance of the draft law? Yesterday, I thought that even the chairman of the Commission, Aldis Adamovičs, only learned about the importance of this point in the "Baltkom Radio" debate. By adopting the amendment proposed by the Ministry, the legislator is encouraging inequalities with regard to binary education and poses legal risks. It is known that the judgment of the Constitutional Court on the calculation of salaries and bonuses of teachers has just been delivered, which is unfavourable to management and shows the insufficient quality of decisions of the Ministry of Education and Science. So I propose that I support my proposal in a different wording of Article 9(1) and (2).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U181	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U182	The Commission did not support the proposal of Member Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U183	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U184	8 / 8 - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U185	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U186	9. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U187	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U188	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U189	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U190	Dear colleagues! In Latvia 62 percent of citizens at home speak Latvian, 38 percent speak other languages. And these 38 percent - these are mainly those who speak Russian at home; 37.2 percent - it's the answer to Artus's village why we talk about Russian. By contrast, 27 percent of all students learn Russian. So more than a quarter of Russian-speaking families send their children to Latvian schools. That is the choice of these parents. Some parents are satisfied with the existing education system. This is reflected in the collective submission "On the maintenance of linguistic training" rejected by 14 000 citizens at the previous sitting with your votes. Further Latvianisation of minority education, inspired by the government, may also meet their Russians... between Russian parents their supporters and followers. But there is a significant part of Russian parents in Latvia who want their children to learn and be raised mainly in the family language, because they consider school to be a continuation of their family. Such a group of parents should also have access to the education system. The Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, signed by Latvia, states that ‘states shall undertake, if there is sufficient demand, to ensure, as far as possible, that persons belonging to national minorities have adequate opportunities to acquire the language of the minority or to acquire education in that language in the territory of which the persons of these national minorities are historically or in large numbers’. I'm sorry for that long quote. The Republic of Latvia shall be responsible for the performance of the duties it undertakes. The Republic of Latvia ratified the Convention, so it is not contrary to the Constitution. The question arises: can different educational opportunities, different from the use of minority language as a learning language, be implemented within a single standard of education? The answer is yes. The third paragraph of the second paragraph of Section 9 of the Education Law provides that education can be obtained in another language in other educational institutions provided for by laws. I propose a specific law to ensure that education is obtained in minority languages in minority education institutions, which should be described in this law. It must therefore be defined in a specific law that the law defines the subjects to be learned in the national language and the language of the subjects to be learned is determined by the Board of the educational institution. I also suggest that the Cabinet of Ministers should submit draft law on minority education institutions to the Saeima by 1 January next year and it should also describe the educational programmes of minority education institutions, which should be based on existing minority education programmes. My proposal has nothing to do with the suggestions made by other political forces on the autonomy of minority systems or on the establishment of minority education institutions. I urge the establishment of minority education institutions as an element of the public education system, respecting the standard content requirements of education. That is why I am asking for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U191	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U192	When individual Members of the Saeima from this troupe violate the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima, they are excluded from the microphone and their cases are then examined by the Board of Parliament’s Mandates, Ethics and Applications. At the same time, the Saeima opens its eyes to the fact that its colleagues violate the roll of Saeima order, the oaths made in the Saeima, the code of ethics of the Saeima Members. In the oath of the Saeima Member it is made clear and clear that the Saeima Member, when taking up the office of the Saeima Member, swears to strengthen Latvian as the only state language. Then I do not understand why we have to listen here to individual Members who are violating the code of conduct of Members of the Saeima. Why are these cases not dealt with in the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications? ( Milestones.) And even when these questions are being looked at, Orlov notices his friend Pimenov to protect. I really urge you to make all this absurd look-up... that a Member should not be led by a Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications, given that he ignores the clear violations of the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “We can punish with an oral warning!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U193	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U194	We have many articles in the Constitution, and Article 100 says: “Everyone has the right to freedom of expression, which includes the right to freely acquire, retain and disseminate information and to express opinions.” ( Not only the Members, yes!) ‘Censorship is prohibited.’ But in preparation for this bill, the Minister for Education and Science - thank him for that! - prepared and presented on February 14 information “On the transition to state language learning in general secondary education and changes in Bulgarian education”. And it says... This is a study “Language situation in Latvia: 2010-2015”. Here's the table. Latvian language understands 91 percent of minorities: 15 percent - very good; 28 percent - good; 33 percent - average; 15 percent - basic skills; nine percent - not. In turn, young people from minorities almost all know the Latvian language: 39 percent - excellent, very good; 39 percent - good; 20 percent - basic skills and two percent - weak. This means that the system that currently exists works and is not so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U195	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U196	Of course, it can be said about what Member Dombrava said, namely that the status of Latvian as the only state language means that in other languages in the Republic of Latvia it is not really possible to learn. I would like to emphasise and draw your attention once again: The Law on State Language does not define or require, and does not mean that only one state language, the Latvian language, should remain a language of instruction in the education system. If that really is the case, then we have to ask the Minister: why do we still allow the government to learn half of the content of classes 1 to 6 in other languages? So, please, Minister, if you are sure about this! I think the road that is now moving gradually towards you... Mr Shadursky maintains this very consistently. But I would remind you once again that democratic countries, the Member States of the European Union, are following not only the values of individual political groups, but also the universal democratic values that have already proved their endurance and fairness. And Latvia is no exception. More! The historical tradition of Latvia is minority education in minority languages. This tradition has shown that such an approach provides a strong state, provides confidence that the state will provide any person with the opportunity to raise their children in its family traditions. If we violate this tradition, it will be a great evil for our country.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U197	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U198	Here, all proposals still relate to the standard of education in private education institutions. And the Commission has agreed and supported the common standards in public and private education institutions. I therefore asked on behalf of the Commission not to support Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U199	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U200	11. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U201	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U202	For universities. The Russian language is not a language of the European Union, but the possibility to provide teaching programmes in Russian in universities is a real tool to increase the number of students, increase the competitiveness of universities and promote the export of education. By the way, repeatedly said RTU rector academic Leonīds Ribickis and other heads of state universities. So my proposal is to expand the opportunities for universities, namely to give them the opportunity to offer education... training programmes in Russian.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U203	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U204	Honourable Members! We'll be right. The proposal does not refer to Russian. The proposal reads: "In minority languages". So if Mr. Neiminina mentioned the Chinese, Vietnamese and other nations, then perhaps in these languages too. But I call on Mrs. Lazareva to be correct and not to mix things together. In particular, one thing is the export of higher education, but a completely different thing is the Russian language. So the rector of your named higher education institution - Riga Technical University - is working hard on the offer of his programmes for foreign students, and all these programmes are in English. So let's not mix things! We will support the export of quality higher education and remember that we live and work in the European Union and that this is about attracting foreign students who could study in Latvia in one of the official languages of the European Union (of course, it will be English).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U205	The name of Member Jelen Lazareva, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U206	I just want to draw attention to the fact that minority languages in Latvia are not all languages of the world, so it is not Chinese either. There are seven minority languages in Latvia, and I think you all know them. Then let us not talk about Chinese at all!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U207	I closed the debate. Is there something to add on behalf of the Commission to proposal 11?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U208	The Commission did not support 11. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. The Minister has already commented on the opinion of the majority of the Commission. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U209	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U210	12. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U211	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U212	13. - the proposal of Minister of Education and Science Shadursky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U214	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U215	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U216	Dear colleagues, In my proposal, I propose that the Ministry of Education and Science should have a simple and understandable duty to monitor the results of publicly funded educational institutions, particularly in terms of quality. I note that the Ombudsman Juris Jansons admits (concluded) in his 2014 study “Bilingival Education”: “At the moment, the control mechanism is mainly focused on obtaining data of a quantitative rather than a qualitative nature. The collection and analysis of these data is insufficient. Pre-existing data have not been sufficiently systematised and analysed. In addition, since 1996/97. the school year has not been the subject of systematic research into changes in the quality of education of minorities. This may lead to a situation where any changes introduced in the education system do not reach their goal. [...]” In 2004, the Constitutional Court found that two years of quality control of education in the country was not ensured. Another 10 years passed, and the Ombudsman found the same again in 2014. Currently, the Ministry of Education and Science is proposing a reform, but the quality control mechanism was not and is not. It was only last year that the sub-programme “Developing an education quality monitoring system”, financed by 4.2 million euros, appeared in the Ministry, and the selection of information was launched only on 12 October 2017. Hopefully, the result will be in about two or three years' time. But what education are we talking about now? What kind of strengthening of the Latvian language can we talk about, if within 20 years there has been no evaluation of monitoring and quality at all? Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U217	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U218	Currently, in paragraph 18 of Article 15, the Ministry of Education and Science has sufficient delegation to control work. The Commission did not support the proposal 14. On behalf of the Commission, please do not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U219	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U220	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U221	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U222	16. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U223	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U224	My proposal, as you can see, is on the article on public participation in education. We are talking a lot about democracy, but unfortunately, in our country a wide-ranging discussion of change is taking place very quietly, even in a professional environment. I want to note, here's what. It is falsely stated in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law that the Consultative Council of the Ministry of Education and Science on minority education issues has conceptually supported the said draft laws. In its letter of 27 February 2018, the Minister of Education and Science stated that the Council had unanimously adopted a decision on conceptual support. Elizabeth Krivcova, as a full member of the Advisory Council, participated in the meeting of the Council on 10 November 2017 in which the Minister's intention was presented to move to training in Latvian only in secondary schools and to restrict the use of minority languages in primary education. His meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science showed that several participants had expressed their doubts about this idea. She, on the other hand, expressed her opposition to her own intention and grounds for it. However, at the conclusion of the discussion, the Minister suggested that the expression of the participants of the meeting could be interpreted as conceptual support for the said draft laws. Elizabeth argued that she did not conceptually support this idea and asked for a vote on this issue, as required by paragraph 19 of the Council's Statute, but the chair refused to direct the vote on this issue. Consequently, no decision on conceptual support for those draft laws was taken. Moreover, the draft laws were not coordinated with the Latvian Association of Russian Language School Support (?????) What? the largest public organisation representing minority schools. At the previous sitting of the Saeima, 14 000 citizens were rejected in order to maintain their bilateral education. The question arises: do we really live in a democratic country? And I would like to draw attention to the fact that the research of the University of Latvia and the findings of OECD experts show weak public activity in Latvia. This type of decision-making only contributes to the public's indifference towards everything that happens in the country. My proposal makes it compulsory - the harmonisation of opinions with public organisations on the development of changes to this regulatory act. I think that only in this way can we build a cohesive and secure society. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U225	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U226	In the Commission, we received information that the Consultative Council on Minorities in Education has supported the proposals of the Ministry of Education and Science. On behalf of the Commission, please reject Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U227	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U228	17. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U229	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 21, against - 52, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U230	18. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U231	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. ... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Pimenova intermediates.) We will vote in favour of 18. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U232	19. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U233	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U234	Amendments to Section 41 of the Education Law significantly restrict education of minorities in their mother tongue. I have already mentioned earlier that the reduction, narrowing of such rights is contrary both to the Constitution and to Latvia's international obligations under the General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. I am convinced that the wider use of language in schools and educational institutions at different levels is a question of competitiveness and binary education is to a large extent an achievement of Latvia and not a temporary solution. Billing education in Latvia is and will be a demand. In a democratic country, Latvian citizens, representatives of national minorities, must have a choice: to study in Latvian or in their mother tongue using a linguistic system. This is determined by Articles 112 and 114 of the Satversme. Our education system's main sorrow is not knowledge of Latvian language in schools with minority programs... pupils pass exams not worse than in Latvian schools. The problem is more related to the provision of Latvian in schools with minority programmes and the lack of Latvian language teachers. We all have to think together about the future of our country and about the quality of our education, not about the temporary political will. The use of language cannot create barriers to knowledge. Please support the proposal and leave Article 41 in the previous version, namely to withdraw the new version.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U235	Dear colleagues, Members of the Parliament are asking Mr Abu Meri, Mr Sergeant, Mr Dzintars, Mr Cilinskis and Mr Riverenieks to continue the sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “There is no debtor, we can continue! ” ) There is no objection by Members. So the sitting of the Saeima will continue without interruption. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U236	I support the proposal by Member Lazareva, as I urge you to define that the full implementation of minority education programmes in general education should also be accompanied by a national standard for the secondary education stage. Therefore, please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U237	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U238	The Commission did not support Ms Lazareva's proposal to change the proportions proposed for Classes 1 to 6 and for Classes 7 to 9. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U239	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U240	The Commission also did not support 20. - the proposal by Member Inguna Silver, which is in fact the opposite of what Member Lazareva has proposed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U241	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U242	Dear colleagues, What is my proposal about? My proposal is about justice (inter-sac.) , and my proposal is about respect for Latvian. Why do we not regard the existing education system as fair to all children? Because the state of Latvia has not imposed on itself an obligation to provide all children with an opportunity to start learning Latvian already at pre-school age. The state of Latvia requires these children to gradually acquire knowledge of Latvian language by studying at primary school, and to know Latvian perfectly at secondary school. But what about the development of the child? Early childhood, the child’s brain is active in learning both sound and syntax, and it is an age where the child learns both his or her mother’s language and foreign language in the same part of the brain, or region. And if the preschool age is next to your mother tongue (I want to emphasise - next to your mother tongue!) A foreign language is also learned (many people of minorities use the word “second mother tongue” – that is, the Latvian language), then this language is learned naturally (the head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) , without tension, without fear, without any fever and stress. So the essence of the proposal is that the state of Latvia finally shows respect for the Latvian language, because only a fully learned Latvian language is one that gives an opportunity to understand the culture of the people, living in this environment. Let us also show respect for our language. And the essence of the proposal is that starting from 1 January 2019... That is why I am referring to my proposals 20, 23, 33 and 34... From 1 September of next year, every child will have the opportunity to learn Latvian before school... and then every following year over a five-year period... and making it up to the 6th grade... Children are starting school in Latvian, but everywhere they can learn their native language - their native language writing, reading, terminology and everything else. With respect for every language, the language of the minority - whether it is Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Lithuanian or Estonian, and so on - these opportunities must also be guaranteed to absolutely every child. And that's nothing new. You can find entos studies; many experts are also spoken here in Latvia: if children study a foreign language between three and seven years of age, then they learn this language one hundred percent. If this happens between eight and ten years of age, it is already 80 percent capable of learning. From 11 to 15 years, that's 50 percent. And after 17 years of age, unfortunately, statistics show that they are only 15 percent more. Therefore, after hearing the debate on the previous proposals, I see that it is right that everyone has spoken on the subject that the child must learn the language already in the kindergarten together with his own mother tongue. Thus, it should be possible to learn Latvian as well. And I don't see any obstacles to this -- I don't see that there might be any educators capable of teaching these children. Because all educators in Latvia have acquired their higher education throughout these years in Latvian and all educators also have certificates that confirm that they know Latvian at the appropriate level. And for those who, in connection with this proposal, have created, especially in Russian media, histeria, that when they are closed down Russian kindergartens, or that everything is in Latvian, I emphasize once again: everyone remains and must remain able to learn their mother tongue both in pre-school and in all school years. I believe that the vote on this proposal will show if you are at the same time in favour of fair conditions in Latvia - the equal opportunity to learn Latvian - and the fact that Latvian has a truly respected place in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U243	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U244	Dear colleagues, I call for attention to be paid to this proposal because, of course, the intrigue has actually been lost and everyone understands that these amendments will be adopted, even though, due to inertia and the closeness of the elections, too, SAHY colleagues often come to the table and debate. However, we can already see what the protests are and what is the main audience of the protest participants. We see that there are no young people there, that there are mostly people associated with certain political organisations. The public has largely agreed, either that part that was 'no', and that part that supports it and is quite certain that it will be adopted. Here, in the specific proposal, there is one solution: the determination of how fast we are going to study the state language in public schools. And the specific proposal of Mrs Silver - I am referring specifically to Amendment 20 - provides that the proportion of small classes and kindergartens should be introduced at 80 per cent rather than at 50 per cent, as proposed by the Ministry of Education and Science. The National Association will support this proposal accordingly. We also believe that there should be a higher percentage of subjects, the content that is taught in the national language, but we will not support the other proposals that lead to an even more gradual introduction of this transition. If this proposal is supported, we can talk at third reading about deadlines and clarify them. But in essence, the fact that the proportion of Latvian should not be 50 percent, but bigger should be supported. And I call on you, colleagues, to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U245	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U246	The Commission did not support...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U247	The debate is closed. Excuse me, too, Minister...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U248	The Commission did not support 20. - Member Silver's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U249	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Silver's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U250	The Commission did not support 21. - Member Morozov's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U251	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -19, against -54, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U252	The Commission also did not support 22. - Member Morozov's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U253	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 19, it's 59, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U254	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Inguna Silverba. It cannot be put to the vote because it is an analogue to proposal 22.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U255	The proposal is therefore not to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U256	24. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U257	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U258	There are a number of proposals on the possibility for local authorities to participate in the financing of teachers' salaries and social security. 25. - the Group's proposal. Supported by 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U259	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U260	26. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. 30 have been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U261	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U262	27. - Member Silver's proposal. 30 have been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U263	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U264	28. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. 30 have been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U265	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U266	29. - Member Silver's proposal. 30 have been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U267	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U268	30. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U269	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U270	31. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U271	Members don't mind... However, Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 17, 58, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U272	32. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U273	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 32. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 17, against - 59, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U274	33. - Member Silver's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U275	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U276	34. - Member Silver's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U277	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U278	35. - Member Morozov's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U279	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 35. - Member Morozova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U280	36. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U281	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U282	All the proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U283	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. (Applause) Thank you to the Minister of Education and Science for taking part in the Saeima meeting. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U284	For the third reading, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 13 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U285	Please turn on the microphone for Ivan Clementyev! ( Internouncing call.) The microphone is on. Please, speak!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U286	I offer you on April 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U287	April 9th. So let us first vote on 9 April this year as a deadline for tabling proposals. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to Education Law” - April 9, 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 25, 55, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals set by the Commission remains in force, on 13 March this year. Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U288	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” for the third reading. And now, for each proposal separately. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U290	2. - Also... 2. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U292	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U293	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U294	4. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U296	5. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U298	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U300	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U302	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U304	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U306	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U308	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U310	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U312	13. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U314	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U316	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U318	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U320	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U322	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U324	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U325	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U326	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U327	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U328	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U329	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U330	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U331	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U332	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U333	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U334	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U335	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U336	25. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U338	And finally 26. - The legal commission's proposal, too, has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U340	I therefore call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U341	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U342	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U343	Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U344	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company”. In order to avoid problems related to the circulation of information, to modernise and optimise the work of public administration in communication with individuals by ensuring the availability of public administration services, a single electronic environment - the official electronic address - has been created in which the individual can receive all the correspondence due to him from the public authorities. This is also the case where forced expropriation of real estate for public use could take place. The Commission has examined and supported these proposals. Although it has to be said that the Commission had a discussion on certain issues related to the application of these rules in practice. The Commission will therefore be asked to set a longer deadline for the submission of proposals at a later stage. Against this background, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for Society" at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U345	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for Society’s Needs”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U346	Deadline for submission of proposals - 23 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U347	Thank you. Proposals are due by 23 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U348	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate”. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice. It should be noted that on 20 November 2015, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the Concept of Establishment of a Common System of Real Estate State Cadastral Information and the Single Computer Landbook of the State. It is necessary to amend the regulatory framework for the implementation of the concept. The introduction of this concept requires a number of interrelated measures, such as the development of a new cadastral information system, based not on the registration of cadastral objects and real estate, but only on the registration of cadastral objects. This is one of the main moments of this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U349	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U350	Proposals for second reading shall be submitted by 30 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U351	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Land Books Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U352	In order to implement the concept on the previous item on the agenda on the establishment of a common system of information on the State of Real Estate Cadastral and the single national computerised landbook, the draft law “Amendments to the Land Books Act” and the related package of draft laws have been drawn up in accordance with its guidelines. The Cabinet asked the Saeima to examine these draft laws at the same time. You have already supported the draft law “Amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law” because it was the last item on the agenda, and the two other draft laws in the package will be dealt with as two next items on the agenda. On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U353	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Land Books Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U354	Proposals for second reading shall be submitted by 30 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U355	Proposals should be submitted by 30 April of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U356	Also, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers” is necessary for the implementation of the above-mentioned concepts on the establishment of a common system of Real Estate State Cadastre information and the State Joint Computerised Land Register. The draft law, for example, provides that no person is required to have information or documents at the disposal of another institution, in particular the State Land Service. This will make it very easier for individuals to communicate with public authorities. On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U357	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U358	Proposals for second reading shall be submitted by 30 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U359	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 30 April of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Recording of Real Estate in Land Registers”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U360	The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Registration of Real Estate in Land Registers” is also necessary to implement the Guidelines on the Establishment of a Common System of Real Estate State Cadastral Information and the Common Land Register of the State. The draft law provides for a simplified cadastral measurement process. On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U361	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Registration of Real Estate in Land Registers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U362	Proposals for second reading shall be submitted by 30 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U363	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 30, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balodis: “I will speak for him!” ) So on behalf of the Commission - Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U364	Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” is available at first reading. The draft law provides for the establishment of administrative liability in the special law for violation of the rules governing state security. This concerns the damage, destruction, alteration or transfer of the technical means of border checks and of border surveillance. It is envisaged to increase the level of administrative penalties. In essence, these are amendments adopted by the government in connection with the so-called decoding of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. In the Commission, intense discussions were held about service dogs, as the draft law contains rules on the prohibition of attack and on the prevention, delay or withdrawal of the possibility for the service dog to carry out the activities assigned to it. The Commission will assess this, and I think that this issue will be put in order in the next readings. Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U365	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U366	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 9 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U367	Thank you. Proposals are due by 9 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and celebrated days”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Igors Zjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U368	Hello, dear colleagues! At its meeting on 27 February this year, the Commission examined the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Act on Holidays, Remembrances and Marked Days’ submitted by Members. The draft law also provides for the establishment of a holiday day on 7 January. At the Commission meeting, the views of non-governmental organisations representing ministries, employers and employees, as well as representatives of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, were heard. The Commission decided not to support that draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U369	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U370	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In fact, there are a number of issues that I want to talk about. The first question is what I think at all as a lawyer about the proposal in question. Because the proposal to establish a Orthodox Christmas for a holiday, or national celebrations, on the agenda, has been adopted since. This law - we are talking about the law “On holidays, memories and famous days” - was adopted in 1990. Adopted by the Supreme Council. Specific Draft Law... why I do not agree with this and will not support it, I will explain it. In particular, religious justification cannot be the reason for the celebrations accepted by the State Parliament, because it is contrary to the second paragraph of Article 99 of the Satversme, in which relations between the State and the Church are established. So to say, the Church's separation clause. If we accept this festival on religious grounds, then the next line will be, let us assume, Muslims. We will have to accept the Ramadan and there will be no reason not to support it, otherwise it would be contrary to the principle of equality laid down in the Constitution. After Ramadan comes Pesach... and all the respect for all religions, we, I think, Latvia, will be in one such beautiful holiday decoration. This should not be allowed. Of course, this situation is also not good at the moment, because since the adoption of the law, there has been some legal foam in place. For what is in essence said in the current law regarding the Christmas of the Orthodox and Old Believer? On the one hand, that norm, in my view, is pointless. But I'll add that not everyone thinks so. There is the Legal Bureau, which has given my opinion in the opposite way, and there are also comments of the Labour Law, written by two colleagues - Velga Slidiņa and Ilze Skulāne, former judge of the Constitutional Court. Currently, the law states: “The Orthodox believers, old believers and believers belonging to other denominations mark the Easter, Pentecost and Christmas on the specified days.” In principle, on the one hand, it seems to me that it is an empty statement, because everyone can celebrate all the days that they think of. But this is the law that determines the country's famous holidays. So, what has the Legal Office said? The legal office has published such a beautiful book, I think “Latvian Journal” has been provided, and that beautiful book, the black one, - it's also in the Saeima library - contains various opinions. One of them talks about various denominations for Easter holidays and state-defined holidays. True, it was adopted on 11 March 1997, and it says... in this opinion... signed it is the existing judge of the Constitutional Court Gunārs Kusiņš... that in fact the law mentions the title of the holiday, so what I quote to you, but it is not named (and it is really true) a specific date on which this day is celebrated. In 1997, the Head of the Legal Bureau notes, therefore, in his opinion: “In our view, this means that every festival can be regarded as a holiday day when the respective church has determined it.” And, of course, in this case, this indirectly applies to Christmas. But at the same time, what is written by Skulāne and Slidiņa in their comments to the Labour Law... And those comments are acknowledged and used in practice by many people! They quote the following rule again: “The Orthodox, Old-believers and believers belonging to other denominations of Easter, Pentecost and Christmas mark this Confession on the specified days.” And what do you say in this regard? When organising the work, the employer must follow all these rules and reflect these details in the changes in the timetables and in the working time directives in the event of changes in the working time prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. So the existing regulation is quite fluffy. Returning to the specific proposal, it should be noted that... Well, colleagues, I already understand why you wrote such an incomplete argument. Because in an annotation like paragraph 2... The question you had to answer was: ‘What can the law's possible impact on the development of society and the economy?’ You say: “The draft law will have a beneficial effect on the attitude of Orthodox and Old Believers towards state power.” But the question is about the impact on the economy. Of course, one whole day is going to have a major impact on the economy, and we can hardly afford it. So why do I say I understand why you write it? Because I have followed this issue as a professor who is interested in the relationship between the State and the Church. Look, let's say, the materials that I have here are already in April 1997; at that time Golubev (now the mischievous) made proposals to set a holiday for the Orthodox, old-believers. And then Boris Cylevich... I have found proposals that, by the way, I think were quite consistent... Yes, Boris Cilevičs proposed to amend the Labour Law. In particular, the third paragraph of Article 131 is concerned. He recommended that the Labour Law be supplemented by providing that, at the request of the employee, the employer should give the employee an unpaid holiday in the Orthodox on Friday and the First Easter. Again - this is not about Christmas, but the story has to be seen in the complex. If we give one holiday, again, I stress, there will be no reason to refuse another holiday... and other denominations, in particular waterfalls, old-believers, Jews and so on, and so on. And the question is, can we afford it? Looking at this particular proposal, we see that here, the agreement that has been making these proposals since 2008 has slightly changed its initial view. The initial point of view was two days - January 6 and 7. Let's say, in 2008 they had a proposal to recognise holidays... Now it's just one day, January 7. I think that this issue cannot be dealt with in the law on holidays... Perhaps the zatlerians, or “Party of Reform”, who presented a proposal for a multicultural holiday in 2012, which could be taken by everyone at their own request, were a good solution at the time. Perhaps this was a rather good proposal. But I propose in the special law - this is specifically the law of the Orthodox Church of Latvia - the way in which believers, if they are really believers, can go, say, on this and other important holidays. Its order is possible, it exists in other European countries and applies, for example, to the Sabbath celebrations, because we have the Seventh Day Adventists and also Jews, Jews who cannot work on Saturdays... You will say: it is a holiday for all. But there are all kinds of shift regimes, work on shifts, and its problems exist. In this way, it would be possible to resolve, not by public holidays, but by... I think these people could go to their own expense... Boriss Cilevičs presented similar amendments to the Labour Law regarding Easter. Thank you, colleagues. I will vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U371	Name to Member Vladimir Niconov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U372	Hello, dear colleagues! It is true that the question of January 7 as a holiday is not only with beard, but with a spirit, an old beard - just like me. This question was put to the Saeima on numerous occasions. It last took place in November 2014, when it was handed over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, but from that time on, there has been no opportunity to put this issue on the agenda of the Commission. You know why. It is difficult to justify decisions that run counter to common sense and conscience. Common sense is likely alive for colleagues. What about conscience? In order not to recognise obvious facts and not to make unpleasant decisions, it is easier to keep this issue intact for as long as possible (in our case - four years) or to find various justifications. And the conscience of Members with these excuses becomes a little cleaner. Otherwise, the issue of the inclusion of January 7 in the Law “On Festival, Remembrance and Markable Days” would not be postponed from year to year, seeking justification that it is a bad and unnecessary amendment of the law. That's it! Bail had to ask for an opinion from independent experts. Bail had listened to the opinion of the leaders of the Christian denominations of Latvia, who have long spoken about the declaration of Christmas after the old style of state holiday. Bail was to invite historians to tell about the introduction of the new style in the church in 1936 by decision of the Latvian Orthodox Church metropolitan Augustine. The Orthodoxs stopped going to church after the new calendar. But in 1938 there was a serious canonical violation, when Easter coincided with the Jewish Pesach, which, according to the Nicaea I Council, is unacceptable and causes expulsion from the Church. After the great scandal, the metropolis was forced to cancel its decision. The lawyers were afraid to admit that despite the fact that the Church has been separated from the state in the Latvian Constitution, the law “On Festival, Remembrance and Markable Days” already included a whole series of religious festivals. I fear to admit that the law has unequal treatment of the largest Latvian confesions. The celebration is guaranteed by law only by Lutherans and Catholics. Economists were afraid to calculate not only the losses (EUR 8.5 million), but also the real income generated by the movement of goods on holidays and holidays. Fear, because obviously there will be a lot of positive answers. And Members who still live by common sense and conscience will find it difficult to oppose these amendments to the law. And here, on 27 February, at the current request of our group Members, the matter was dealt with by the Commission. The work of the Commission was limited to the necessary experts who were prepared to shed light on all the negative consequences of this proposal. Members were offered the 2016 assessments. In addition, church representatives, historians, and culturists were not invited. The expert assessment proved questionable and the main result was a hypocritical statement that the Church was separated from the State and financial losses would be huge. The highest pilotage of the philosophical thought of Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla, a representative of the Institute of Philosophy and Sociology of the University of Latvia, is the offer to hold a referendum and carry out deeper integration of the Orthodox Church into the European cultural space. The last idea is not new, as we remember from 1936 history. Mr Beitner-LeGall is right in that the question is, of course, political. This requires a political will - to respect a large part of Latvia's population, who have the same rights and who participate in the country's growth. And taking care of the expression of the free will of the citizens of the country, it is necessary to respect - not only in words, but also in deeds! - the interests of 400 thousand Orthodox and old believers. To members of the Saeima - give God, learn not to be afraid of times to press the voting buttons, not to hide the head in the sand as arrows, and listen to your conscience and common sense! As far as the old believers are concerned, believe me, the old believers have run into endless persecution, whether they have been burned in the rosary or under the influence of lens and prisons, but they have not delivered their faith. Your ignore on this issue will, of course, not change our faith or integrate us into the Western anti-Christian society, but the hostile deposits will be left in the soul. I call for our proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U373	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U374	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! However, I call for support for this draft law, even though, indeed, this matter is a matter one year from year... Now there has been a little break in recent years, but before that, he has come to the Saeima for a year. The Orthodox and evidently old believers are still calling for these festivals to be celebrated as a solemn day. I do not agree very much with what Ringolds Balodis said - that, here, in Latvia, the relationship between the State and the Church... that the State and the Church, as they say, are separated from each other. First of all, Christmas is a Christian festival! Of course, they also coincide with the natural rhythm, as they say, that there is the shortest day of the year and the longest night of the year. But, for example, Easter time every year - year from year to year! - changes, and it is very difficult to find relationships with natural cycles. These are pure religious festivals. We're also celebrating the Great Friday. We can also celebrate the Green Thursday this year, because the entire Saeima will already be a holiday. I agree with the idea that, in the previous Saeima, I was heading for the Reform Party, in which I was a member of the Saeima at that time. We called for one religious day to be set for every Latvian citizen, whom he could choose. For example, for Catholics, August 15. In Latgale already half-officially and in many municipalities, the 15th August is declared a holiday. In my opinion, it would be only logical for the legislator to organise and create a system at national level so that a person can celebrate his religious holidays and so that in the economy that has been called, we can also plan the benefits and the losses. Because, of course, the businessman immediately accounts for the cost of one of these regular holidays. And here I will allow you to express an unpopular opinion that perhaps we should review other days. For example, the Second Easter as a free day. Well, I think it could be a working day. First Easter, we all sing, we do it properly, and... I think that the word “proper” can be replaced by “reasonable”. No need to be a festival number two, as folklore is mentioned. And, of course, I call on the Orthodox and Old Believers community to think about and stop this system, that in Latvia we live as different religions according to different calendars. What happens if we have someone else in Latvia - I don't know, Chinese, Arabic or I know someone - calendar? I can't even list everyone. They are different. However, we must try to follow one calendar after which we all live, work, and finally the Saeima. As far as I can see, in the 1920s and 1930s the Orthodox Church of Latvia followed this calendar, not as it is, the patriarchy of Moscow. By the way, it is also a question of which Orthodoxs should stand out. But I will not get into a wider debate. As I said, I am in favour for the time being, although I assume that a better solution should be found in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U375	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U376	Good evening! After three years and three or four months of this draft law has settled in the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, it has now reached the Saeima at first reading. Thank you, too. In the meantime, however, it may have been possible to discuss much more with all believers and understand why this is necessary. But now... The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs shall act differently. It formally requests the opinion of the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economics, the Minister of Culture, the Confederation of Employers of Latvia and the Free Trade Union of Latvia. And, of course, each one looks from his own interests. I agree with the Ministry of Economics, which writes that it can have an impact on our country's budget. One additional holiday can affect the Latvian economy... the estimate is from 0.08 per cent to 0.1 per cent of gross domestic product, which is significant. The introduction of such a holiday should therefore be justified. Of course, one working day is one working day. But if we look at what is happening in the world and how much we have holidays in Latvia... Not so little. If we take care of our gross product... We're losing 8.5 million somewhere every day, so maybe we're going to cut those Easter from four days to two days? Because we are not doing well with the economy at all. We can celebrate Christmas for two days instead of four. But a city like Seville in Spain... They also have such a celebration – Easter, but they call them Saman Santa and celebrate a week. All believers from Spain travel to Seville and take part in those events. For Spanish it is a great honor - to participate in those celebrations in Seville and to mark them for a whole week. And that week, I can claim to you, it doesn't work in shops or banks; it only works in cafes and restaurants. All banks open for just one hour in the morning so that you can withdraw money, and all! So people relax, and they don't complain about their economy falling. In that opinion, the Ministry of Finance stated that this could have an impact on the production and construction sectors, in particular those companies which cannot transfer production to other days. By driving or walking on Saturdays, for example, in Mežaparks, where currently there are construction of the large stage, which needs to be put into operation by 16 June, we can see... and also at the Daugava stadium, which needs to be completed by May 15, builders also work on Saturdays and evenings, because they know their timetable; they cannot know what the winter will be - hard or not - but they know specifically that the event will be in the song festival program, so they need to do their job, otherwise they will have to pay a penalty. So it will not affect their construction. If the contract is signed, then we need to do it. That's it! Finally, I would like to quote what was prepared for us by the Press Service of the Saeima at the time when our honourable President, Ināra Mūrniece, visited the church of St. Nikolai on March 20, 2015: “The visit to the Old-believers is symbolic, showing respect for the values maintained by the Old-believers over the centuries. It is a good work and a high moral standard. Today I would say - a clear view of life, a healthy lifestyle. Old-believers are part of the history and culture of Latvia, which enriches society, and this should be appreciated. Ināra Mūrniece, the Speaker of the Saeima, emphasises this during her regional visit to Rezekne, meeting with representatives of the old-believers generation. The Speaker of the Saeima thanked the old-believers community for maintaining moral values and trust in traditions.” Adopt the law for you! Think, honourable Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U377	Thank you for quoting. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U378	Dear colleagues, As far as I remember the reports on Parliament's work, I also remember that every parliament, when it comes together, decides whether or not to give this holiday to the Orthodox. And really, following the news, you can read that “The Saeima will finally decide”, “The Saeima will still decide not to support” and so on, and so on. Indeed, I do not think that honor the Saeima, and I call on you, my fellow Members, to decide once and for all on this issue - whether yes or no. If you decide yes, you will just put the matter aside and people will be able to enjoy the holiday on January 7. But if you want to say no, I invite you to prepare and take the Saeima's decision by calling on the Orthodox not to celebrate this festival or the Saeima's decision that the Saeima will in no way return to this issue. Because it really doesn't do glory. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U379	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U380	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Listening to this discussion gave the impression that it almost speaks of someone who has been banned. I would like to remind you a little that Latvia and the Orthodox congregations moved to their new style before the Second World War, when the Latvian Orthodox Church joined the Patriarchy of Constantinople. After the Soviet occupation, Estonia returned to the Patriarchy of Constantinople, celebrating the new style. Finland celebrates by new style. Greece also notes after the new style of Christmas. But what is the most interesting thing? That the Kaliningrad metropolit said that because of the fact that the Kaliningrad residents are travelling to Lithuania and to Poland on Christmas, the Kaliningrad Orthodox Church can choose to celebrate at the new or old style. Latvian congregation Christmas is also celebrated in Latvia by the new style - December 24. Then why again are the calls to follow Moscow's example, to divide Latvian society and to celebrate part after some old calendar? We don't use this old calendar! Does anyone then ban Russian congregations from celebrating Christmas with Latvian congregations in December, if even Kaliningrad Russian congregations are celebrating with Poles and Lithuanians in December?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. They've moved to the new style. Now to the Orthodoxs. Well, stop telling stories! The Orthodoxs arrived in Latgale as refugees at the end of 17th century after Peter’s First Reforms. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūtris: “What are you talking about? 13th century!’ ) They were welcomed here. What was it about a country where Orthodoxs arrived... Old believers... Forgiveness, yes, old believers came. It was a Polish kingdom that had already moved to the new calendar. So if you come to a second country where you don't celebrate after the old calendar, then you should follow the same tradition. Therefore, I call on us not to divide society and Russian churches to celebrate together with the Latvian Orthodox congregations, as already happened before the Second World War, and with all European Orthodox churches. Now what we start talking about again some old calendars! I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U381	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U382	Dear colleagues, Thank you to Mr Baloža for his background. Mr Baloža is a great expert on these issues. I agree with Mr Baloža that this rule, which is currently in the law, is at least strange, as it actually obliges confesions to celebrate holidays on certain days. But I'm sorry! - It's not our part! And the same I would like to remind my colleague Villum and my colleague Kirštein: let us not get inside the affairs of a particular confederation! Only the Churches themselves can decide when they celebrate their holidays. Members are not entitled to do so. On the other hand, Mr Baloža's argument seems to me to be a little hypocritical, because let us not pretend, colleagues, that the holidays that are currently marked in the calendar are neutral. No, not at all, because these are the days when the Lutheran and Catholics celebrate Christmas. Although it is not mentioned in the law, that is the case, and we simply pretend that we do not understand it. Regarding discrimination... Yes, of course, the state is not obliged to provide any rights to confesions and their holidays, but it is the state's duty to ensure equal treatment. The principle of proportionality is applied here; all lawyers know it very well. Mr Baloža knows better than anyone else that all religions are not equal, that according to law only some denominations have certain rights, such as the right to register a marriage. So the law separates traditional denominations from new denominations. And, of course, the number of people who belong to it or to another religion is important here. There are almost 400 thousand Orthodox and Old Believers in Latvia. It's a very big part. And, of course, this cannot be compared with Muslims, Jews or other denominations. It follows that Christians belonging to the Catholic or Lutheran Church have a state guaranteed right to celebrate their holidays because it is an official holiday; Orthodox and Old Believers do not have such guaranteed rights. And this is an unequal treatment that is not justified. It is not justified because the number of persons belonging to these two denominations is quite similar to the number of Catholics and Lutheran Churches. That is why this proposal is quite justified and it is precisely the rejection of this proposal that would lead to a division of society. I understand that some colleagues are dreaming that everyone should speak the same language, that everyone should belong to one religion and vote for one party. But hardly, Mr Kirštein, that will be so, because yet we have a diverse country, we have democracy and we have to take into account the interests of all Latvian citizens. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U383	Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U384	Colleagues, the story is that we passed this law in 1990, even before the renewal of the Constitution. It is a matter of recognising Christmas, not now, at the moment, but long ago, we have done so. This took place before the renewal of the Constitution. It is an important argument in the Constitutional Court, because one is the legislative process in which we are involved, the other is the procedure of the Constitutional Court, where judges will regard this principle of equality objectively and coldly... I do not see an opportunity for a judge of the Constitutional Court to refuse... In the Constitutional Court do not recognise, say, the demand of the devout for, I do not know, the Ūsiņš festival or the Islamic claim for Ramadan. Yes, they should be supported, and then we would be in a situation - I hope we will not be! - that in the end we will have to give up all this celebration. We do not give religious arguments after this festival! First of all, we have a festival. And secondly, really think about how everyone can be satisfied! And all the other Churches can be satisfied through so-called Church Laws, giving everyone the opportunity to go to their own expense on these holidays. Because, of course, the situation that exists now, at the present time, is not too good. For example, in Latgale some municipalities... I haven't heard about how it is now, but some time ago there were cases where the municipality accepted that the students were not then going to school, or that the employees were, in principle, illegally laid off at home this day. These are not the best solutions. We're public officials once and we're statemen! But, of course, I have a question: is the Orthodox Church behind these proposals? Because in principle we are talking about calendar fun, about calendar amendments. Every year, already for 28 years, such proposals appear, talk about them... Yes, they are similar or slightly different in one way or another... I'm talking about January 6, 7... Let's say, January 7, which is the subject... But every time voters like it, of course. And, of course, this is an election year, and now all those who are Russians or Latvians Orthodox to those who will vote 'no' are watching with a white eye - we are the evil ones, yes, we are not giving opportunities. But I WOULD ask you, too, to think really... Well, if it doesn't happen this time, then think about the solution! Make suggestions! I can help you, take part, say it, and try to find a solution, not just confrontation! Because it's usually the discussion... here's a stenogram that can look... just go to this level: we're Westers, we're Latvians; you're Russians are the bad ones. And such a banal discussion begins. I think if you want to solve this, then, you know, we do do this after the draft law is not supported! I think it will not be supported either. Thank you, colleagues. I ask you not to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U385	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U386	Hello, colleagues! I won't look in the past and I won't know the future. I will talk about today's realities. In my view, today's realities on this issue are quite clear and there are no problems there. These are understandable, and now it is only up to us to decide what we should do. First... The first thing I want to say. The first reality. Thank God, we live in a Christian land. What evidence of this? This is reflected in elementary statistics. More than one and a half million out of almost two million Latvians have admitted that they belong to one of the Christian denominations that they belong to the Christian Church as a whole. So, one and a half million out of less than two million! Thank God that Latvia as a Christian country is part of the European Union, which is also a union of Christian countries, a union of countries built on the Christian foundations. And what's next? What has happened next? Why is this division? This division is not objectively justified in the faith, because the belief is not of national origin, the faith is of no political opinion... to put it more correctly, there may be different political views. Faith is independent of race, gender, or other characteristics. Faith is something special and unique that unites and may often divide people. Christian faith seeks unity among people. And I can tell you that Latvian churches speak very many languages. Churches of Latvia speak Latvian, Polish, Lithuanian, Russian and Latgalian languages, no matter what kind of Christian religion they belong to... very many. Also speak English and speak other European languages. It is likely that there will be an increase in the number of Christians from other European countries living here in Latvia. And what's the problem here? The problem lies in the fact that out of these over one million 500 thousand Christians their Christmas celebrations, in fact the main celebrations of Christendom, which we celebrate on 25 and 26 December, in Latvia about 400 thousand, slightly more than 400 thousand Christians, the same people belonging to the Christian Church, are celebrated on January 7. For when we celebrate our Christmas on December 25 and 26 and the New Year, these Christians have a great fasting and are waiting for their holidays on January 7. The problem has arisen, yes. And some effect is on calendar things. But should we talk here in the Saeima about what these Christian Churches should do about belonging to one calendar or another? I think that we should not give up on this issue here, but think about how we could equalise this inequality between the two parts of the Christian Church and how we could prevent this, in fact, discrimination and unequal treatment, which has unfortunately been introduced and which has not been addressed throughout these years. We can address, if it is acceptable, the Orthodox Church and Old Believers Church in Latvia and invite to review the issue of these calendar cases. At the same time, however, we also need to address this issue. I spoke on this matter as early as 2014, when we were just elected in this term. And I am very sorry that we have not managed to resolve this issue during this term. Therefore, I have a request, colleagues, not to reject this project at first reading, but to continue working on it. We have placed much harder, more complex, less preparatory questions beyond the first reading and worked on commissions, and took on, and did. We need to understand one thing that a Christian, believer, will not come here to the Saeima, with posters and microphones. He won't jump, he won't pull a stab on the table, he won't scream. For Christian faith produces mildness and humility in men. And mild and humble these people, these Christians, over 400 thousand Christians, are asking us from year to year: “Sorry this question for us!” I think we should not reject at first reading, but we should continue to work on this. We are able to resolve that matter.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U387	I closed the debate. Dear colleagues, do the applicants want to add something? Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 21, for - 7. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U388	The deadline for submission of tenders shall be 22 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U389	Please turn on the microphone for Janis Upenieks!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U390	Deadline for submission of proposals - 5 October. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U391	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 5 October. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Neimins!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U392	Well, if we vote, then we are voting on October 1, please! 1 October - this is the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U393	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 1 October. There are other proposals? Please turn on the microphone for Silvia Schiff!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U394	Deadline for submission of proposals - March 25. ( Insight: “Which year? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U395	Okay. So there are proposals for a deadline: 22 March of this year, proposed by the applicants; 25 March of this year, proposed by the Member; 1 October of this year, proposed by the Members and 5 October of this year. Please turn on the microphone for Ringold Balodis!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U396	Hello! I think we don't wear this theater until the elections! Let's get this case straight away! We set an hour or weeks deadline for the submission of proposals (Dep. A. Berzins: “A good proposal! See you in an hour!’ ) and end, accept it at second reading, and peace! Everyone understands, even the applicants, that they will reject this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U397	So, Mr Baloža, your deadline for tabling proposals is an hour or a week? Well, I can't tell you how long the deadline is then you really want?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, An hour or a week? Enter the microphone for the Member Balodis so that he is clear about his proposed deadline!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U398	Okay. The next sitting of the Saeima could be a term.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U399	March 15, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U400	Yes!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U401	So March 15, March 22, March 25, October 1 and October 5. So we start voting with a further deadline. The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 October of this year. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days”” on 5 October 2018. Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 37, against - 33, refraining from - 2. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 5 October 2018. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U402	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Strengthening them in Land Registers”. Document number 4629. The commission responsible has received six proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U404	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U405	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U406	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U407	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U408	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U409	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U410	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U411	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U412	And six. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U413	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U414	Thank you. On behalf of the commission responsible, please support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U415	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U416	The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U417	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 13 March this year. The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". Draft decision “On call to the President of the Bank of Latvia Ilmars Rimšēvičs to resign from office”. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U418	In the Latvian public media, I saw the news that Rimšēvičs wanders through the Saeima, walks through political groups, seeks some support for himself. They said something... I mean, where am I looking? Because Rimšēvičs is definitely sitting somewhere on the computer screen and watching live. Mr. Rimšēvičs, get back! Please leave the office of the President of the Bank of Latvia! I would like to remind you of one thing: you are no longer Ilmārs Rimšēvičs, you are on the international arena of the Bank of Latvia! And no matter if you're, let's say, self-clarified, and it's not all true, or it's all true. This means just one thing: you are the face of Latvia and you represent the whole country as the face of the Bank of Latvia. You're not just Ilmārs Rimšēvičs anymore. I think that it is simply regrettable that Members of the Saeima should now ask you: ‘Please leave your office!’ Because we can only ask. We cannot take this mandate away from you. And the fact that you have this right... Yes, you can all now order three houses further and walk through Saeima factions, and look for some support. I want to see the vote! But you are the face of the Bank of Latvia in the world, and it is your duty! It is your duty to correct that error, and then go and fight with your lawyers, a lawyer's army, about whether it was or not. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “The judge of the Court! Put him in a cross!” ) But please stop embarrassing us internationally! It's enough that one of these sits in Ventspils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U419	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U420	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This vote is not for one particular person, and this vote is not for whether or not we believe in one particular person. This is not a proof of faith. We need to keep our faith private to everyone. However, honourable colleagues, I think that we need to demonstrate the belief that the Republic of Latvia is a state governed by law and that in these 28 years of independence we have managed to establish a state governed by law (Dep. I.Rijana: “This is really legal!” ), where everyone does his job: the parliament does its work, law enforcement agencies do their work and the President of the Bank of Latvia does his work if he does not shame the state of Latvia. Dear colleagues, This is the question of the moment when personal interests and personal needs must be placed under the needs of the state and the general needs of society. By way of derogation from his post, Mr. Rimšēvičs is doing damage to the reputation of Latvia's state, harming all of us. Colleagues! We are the parliament of the rule of law. We cannot, of course, change the law, change the procedure and suddenly decide to remove Mr Rimšēvičs from office. All we can do is express our will, our desire to see the law enforcement authorities do their job so that it does not interfere with it, and as long as this work is done, our country's reputation is not defiled and shamed. Colleagues! Let us vote in favour of this draft decision. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U421	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U422	Dear colleagues, Honorary Judges of Unity! Finally, your wise heads have created the legal structure with which problems of the Latvian financial sector will take place. I believe that this draft decision should be supplemented by section B: an open list in which you could write to any other official who, in your opinion, is not welcome. In this way, we will free the country from the burden of the rule of law, which is obviously an unnecessary obstacle to achieving the objectives of Unity and will no longer be necessary in modern circumstances. We could move forward gradually, so that after a few years such and similar issues can be decided, for example, by Twitter court in one night. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) But if seriously, I do not know how the Unity has managed to force colleagues to pour water on their mills, because this decision is nothing more than a pre-election position. I believe that this decision is a shame to the Saeima and cannot be supported. What is more, this should be ignored. It must be ignored as the final attempt of the party that has lost public confidence to gain attention. I call on colleagues not to wear the coats offered by UNIT - white or black, to vote in favour or against - but to turn their back on the desperate struggle of Unity to look cleaner than they are, and not to take part in this game of hypocrisy. I call on you fellow Members to respect the rule of law and not to humiliate the Saeima. And if Unity really strives for clean politics and respect for the highest moral, ethical standards, then I would advise you to start with yourself. I would advise you to ensure that all the Members in your group comply with both the laws and the decisions of the Saeima. It is a pity that Mr. Spolish is not here! ( Interface: “What’s the case? ”) ) How does it happen that your group, the largest moralists, has since November 2016 been ignoring the motivated appeal of the Saeima to repay the so-called anti-corruption commission's remuneration for extremely poor work - EUR 14 500? Colleagues, I call on you to ignore this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U423	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U424	I think this vote is basically like that... Indeed, as the press has said, such an PR move from Unity. I allow my colleagues, when discussing what can be done in this situation, also in Unity, to try to understand: what can we do? Well, maybe you can... Well, we can't do anything. So what are we doing? Now we're doing something! And we do something! We're calling for Rimšēvičs to resign now, yeah. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “At least we think! The others don’t think!” ) I would like to point out here that Julia Stepanenko is indeed right. And it very much reminds of that vote to make Wyko Spolitis return the funds wasted in pointless terms. And, Mrs Chigan, this is not a vote on a legal state. What are we talking about? If he is guilty, he must be put in prison, not in order to comfort himself now, something must be done. Now we look stupider than stupid! Well, what's the matter with the rule of law here? The court of the State shall be adjudicated, yes. The law enforcement authorities shall investigate. What are we doing now? Rimšēvič, resign! We are ashamed that you will now appear in the public space! We're ashamed you're going to some foreign colleagues! Colleagues! I want to read one conclusion here from the working group that analysed the issues of the regulatory framework for the election of the President of Latvia. There were the main conclusions relating to the President of Latvia, and some additional conclusions relating not only to the... And in the section on the suspension of the President of Latvia, we came to the conclusion that there is no model. But at the same time, there was one additional conclusion, and I will read it: “In Latvia, not only the mechanism of dismissal of the President of Latvia has not been properly regulated. Only a few officials appointed by the Saeima are provided for a release procedure, but both these procedures and guarantees of the right to a fair trial are regulated differently. On the other hand, the release of other officials appointed by the Saeima shall be regulated by the roll of order of the Saeima.’ And there was a lot more... But in that context, I would like to say that we do not have to regulate these suspension procedures for any official. This was particularly evident when the Neighbours shouted Brigman and the entire Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission and everyone else walked after Diamond... And what did the court say? Well, in principle (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “The diamond has to be released!” ), you know, we went out there like an old homestead. ( Milestones.) Neighbours! You can't talk to the grass! You know that. A.Kamiņš: “You can’t talk to the grass!” ), isn't it? And that's why I want to say: colleagues in the Legal Commission, let's think about this regulation at all! I understand that in this situation it is even more tragic... And those colleagues who know... they know that we are not even able to regulate the suspension procedure, because it is a bank that is fully supervised by the European Central Bank. And so what can we do? I... Let us call Mr. Rimšēvičs to resign, because it would be better for everyone. Colleagues! I support this proposal because it does not exist, but we are showing powerlessness. And I would advise the Legal Commission and all of us to think together about other positions - also about the SAB leader we appointed. Don't give God if he laughs! How are we gonna stop him? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “We will call!” ) Then there will be one single paralysis. Or the Prosecutor General or the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court... All of them, too! You can't think it's gonna be okay. It's not good in the case of Rimšēvičs. Well, let's vote, let him go home! Right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U425	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U426	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Very likely this is the trick of Unity Pre-election - quite successful! - 'cause it's actually bringing us all into the trap. They offer to judge a court out of court here before the court. And it turns out that all the arguments are very good, for example, those who say that it's shameful are nothing. One government-controlled authority has detained... We do not know what charges have yet been made; we do not know whether there will be any truth at all. Because that's the experience - however, KNAB does not once, when someone is detained, when search is requested, then loses interest. And it's not one, two or three - there's a lot of such cases. Then those people... Let us remember the former Minister of Agriculture, Daini Geger, who justified himself, but his life has been ruined. It is therefore possible that Mr. Rimšēvičs - with the efforts of lawyers or otherwise - will prove innocent. There is such a possibility. That is why I also understand those who allege on the presumption of innocence. But, colleagues, there's another situation here, quite different. Because, you see, today we really cannot do much, and the European Central Bank has taken a decision today - perhaps someone does not know - and has significantly restricted Mr Rimšēvičs' participation in its Council, that is to say, he has denied it. I do not really know what has happened and what the next solution will be. I leave all the possibilities. Riga speaks everywhere. What, though, should we do now? I am not talking about Unity, but it is easier for them: they have thrown this hot carp, and we now have to do something about it. Those who now sign up to Mr. Rimšēvičs' lawyers without knowing the risks and... I want to call on those who know how innocent Mr. Rimšēvičs is to come here and tell, not to call the presumption of innocence. However, those who already know more than the investigators, as Mrs. Chipannes has made me understand that she is coming and telling me how she is there. It would be much easier for us. I do not believe that this will happen, so I propose support for this proposal. Not because I have some specific knowledge that I think most of you do not have in this case; not because I doubt or would be certain about what the outcome is. But this time it's a speech... We have to choose from: not - whether we are in favour or against Mr Rimšēvičs (and here I agree with Mrs Chigan); we need to choose whether we are in favour of Latvia. When voting, it is necessary to choose what action would be better for Latvia. It would be better for Latvia if Mr. Rimšēvičs resigned. His reputation, perhaps - perhaps! - it's not falsified, but it's already under the control of the authorities, the authorities, which are bumbling the structures... And if it turns out that Mr. Rimšēvičs is innocent, then this will not be a local question, as it were with Shleser, Geger, or even Lemberg, when detention hasn't finished with anything... This will be an international, global loss of the ruling coalition. Then you will be those great creators of shame. But now it's... I would be happy if this issue had not been looked at here in the Saeima. But if there is one, we can't leave without a decision. We can take a card out, we can show a free vote - this one and so... But in fact, I call on everyone to vote in favour of this proposal, to vote in favour of better for Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U427	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U428	Hello, colleagues! Because everyone is tired, everyone wants to leave, I'll tell you a short story. ( Milestones.) A few years ago, together with the helpers, THE Unity planted a race. The racer grew great and powerful and began to interfere with other, especially smaller, raccoons, and may well have become damaged. When it came time for the racers to get out, then it turned out that there were no instruments, and we had to try to pull out... be taken out the same way. The President of Latvia did not draw a wolf, a wolf, a wolf. The premiere came, the double wolf, but again nothing. Then the Speaker of the Saeima, the Minister of Finance and even the Head of the National Security Commission joined in towing. And no more, the Rand, where it was, remained there. So the question this time is, will the Saeima be the mouse that will put that point on, or will it not? While abstracting from the information that I know about this criminal proceedings, and from the point of view of what should really be done by the President of the Bank of Latvia himself, I would like to ask a rhetorical question: what will then be the result of this vote? Probably not. And instead of raising our confidence, the Saeima is likely to be a proof of our inability. But now Mr. Urbanovich really convinced me that it is important for Latvia. And I will probably also vote in favour. But in the meantime, there's news from the raven's door. There's a dew of three million. Armands Rasa. But it's a different story, and it's another time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U429	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U430	Hello! Colleagues, you can really agree that this issue is actually a question about the face of Latvia. However, I have one request: when speaking with this reasoning, do not use... I don't know how to call those grounds... Let us not stop investigating the investigating authorities! A political decision is to interfere with the investigating authorities. To the extent that they needed to restrict the activities of a particular subject, they adopted and imposed safeguards. Secondly. If we call for the rule of law, then I think that those who defend such arguments for the draft decision are concerned with the possibility of simply giving a judgment before a court - that is, no matter what has happened, of which person to release some information and then say that it is right for him to be guilty. Thirdly. I am a bit ashamed of the fact that in Latvia a state official has to defend his integrity. I thought that no man had to defend his integrity. And finally. Despite our vote today, please read the oath of your Member: there is a reference to the Constitution. And there's Article 92 in the Constitution. The second sentence (whoever wants to read precisely) is that the principle of presumption of innocence exists.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U431	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U432	Dear colleagues, It is already true that either good or nothing is said about coalition partners. But this time we have to agree with all those who think - and that is certainly also my conviction - that it is a pre-election move on the part of Unity, and I do not think that it is a very responsible move. In both scenarios, whether today is the vote on the draft decision or the draft decision against it, there are considerable risks. Mr Sergeant has already said what the risks are if we support such a draft decision. The family can show their powerlessness. But have we thought about how it would look if we in the Latvian Parliament did not support this draft decision? That would actually be an indirect trust... indirect call on Mr. Rimšēvičs to remain in office. The motivation of the national association in this case is not to put it in such an uncomfortable position, hostage position, state, and we will vote in favour of this draft decision. However, there is the pre-election of the border for the measures that I call for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U433	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U434	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! The Group of the Regions of Latvia met Mr Rimšēvičs yesterday and I told him yesterday that I think it would be more appropriate for him to resign. I myself, if I had a shadow of suspicion as a Member of the Saeima, I would resign with full responsibility, because I know that if I am not here, I will be the next from the Latgale electoral district list, which will also fight for the same ideas that I will fight for. In my opinion, the Bank of Latvia also has at present enough competent people to take up the post of President and to perform high-quality tasks - not worse than Mr Rimšēvičs. The argument that Mr. Rimšēvičs is not leaving his office at the moment simply to protect himself, in my opinion, really does more harm to both Latvia and the Bank of Latvia, which now - we do not know how long - will work without a manager. Latvia's interests in the European Central Bank and so on will not be represented, and still will not be represented. However, ladies and gentlemen, this draft decision has absolutely nothing to do with it. Mr. Brigmann, you can speak louder so I can also hear what you're talking about on the phone there... For you could ask, for example, for the resignation of Mr Lembergs, with whom Mr Brigmann may now be talking. Of course, Mr Lemberg would have been like a bunny signal. By the way, Mr Zaķis would have been a true honour, in my opinion too, if he had resigned from the parliamentary office and allowed another to represent the voters in the Latgale electoral district here in the Saeima. But it's already an internal matter of Unity, and there you can see for yourself whether you're going to prepare a draft decision with an invitation or not. Let's go. In my opinion, this draft decision should be directed primarily to the Prosecutor General, the President of Latvia, because he is the Head of the National Security Council and, of course, Prime Minister Kučinska, because KNAB works under his supervision. Ladies and gentlemen! If one of the most important public officials of Latvia - the President of the Bank of Latvia - is currently falling above such a shadow, it is in our interest to be clear about this issue as quickly as possible. Therefore, in my opinion, the draft decision should include a call on the President of State, the Prime Minister and the Prosecutor General to come to an end as soon as possible. Because now we see... because now we see also Rinkēvičs... Rimšēviča... I'm sorry. Rimšēvičs’ ability to do so (Int.) their duties and admission to official secrecy will be evaluated for two months. Well, how long can we do that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So I call on the Unity not to hide and try to take responsibility from itself with this draft decision, but first of all to look carefully at itself, as I said earlier. The second thing you can do and set an example: deduct the donations you have received from ABLV Bank and show yourself as a truly responsible political force. I think that this draft decision has no connection with whether or not Latvia will be better, Mr Urbanovich. We all have to work on specific draft laws, on the system, so that the legal system in Latvia is organized. And then also the President of the Bank of Latvia and any other person can really expect a quick and timely trial and decision - he is guilty or not.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U435	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U436	Dear Members of the Committee. I would like to express my opinion. This is very different from what has been said in many moments, because unfortunately I can... Well, how do you tell me... I am not freed from the fact that 11 municipal members were dismissed in 2008 here in the Saeima. And here are the people here, too... you know well - those who voted at that time. The vote was free. Did anyone apologize to those 11, including me, for being fired? And for at least two years, wherever I went, I had to explain that I had not stolen 69 million together with my 10 colleagues. Therefore, I believe that the law is above all emotions, the honorable Unity! A couple of emotions! You are talking about the prestige of the country. You speak loudly here, and that's why... Whoa! It took time to leave it (Interior call.) who said that Rimšēvičs is the face of Latvia. Thank you for saying it very loud and convinced me! He really may be the face of Latvia, and he is currently fighting for her... Well, at least if he believes what he said and other arguments don't work out, he's fighting to keep the name of a honest citizen. And until the court has proven that he is not a honest citizen, that he has participated in corrupt machinations or violated the law, then... This can only be determined by the court. When no legally correct evidence has been presented within two-and-a-half weeks, the SAB will now try to find out for two months whether or not there is a need to remove the allowance for national secrecy. You know, I know some of the proceedings very well: the guilty KNAB is indicted, and then all the other institutions have no problem anymore, because they tell him: “We have such documents, we have such evidence, you have to be disbanded!” I really agree with my colleague Viļuma. President of State, Prime Minister... All these gentlemen who work for the country should say: “Mr. Rimšēvičs, we have evidence! The court will still investigate, but you must leave this post!” And we have to tell the people about what. Not us... By the way, it has been said in the mass media that he has long been deprived of admission to state secret, but it turns out that he is not! And here we are now talking about the prestige of the country! You know, it’s a good saying: “It’s not important what I say loudly to you. What is important is what I think of you!” And if you wanted to improve the country's prestige, then you shouldn't have set up an OIC system. Do you think you're not laughing at a foreign country? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “You are also in the Saeima! It's not here for us or you!” ) Now laugh about the whole country – Latvia. About Education (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “You have to talk about everyone together! What do you mean?Oh, no, no, no, ) reform. Neighbours! ( Internouncing call.) Hence, education is not organised in 27 years. You think Finland doesn't know that? Highly honored Professor of Finland, who was invited to Latvia to tell about the Finnish system... We were there... then there were horrors, yeah. ( Internouncing call.) And that's the prestige of the people! Look at the Latvian rating! Dear, good, we are not in the second, third or fourth place in terms of prosperity (Internext.) , and that's the country's business card. ( The utterances: “In your world! ” “What in the world?” ) This is a business card! “ Where do you work? Who pays you a salary? What are you talking about? Who are we and you?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U437	Mr Platoper, continue the debate. I call on you to stick to the subject. ( Interface: “Call fast! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U438	I'm very much on the subject because you're worried about one person... the loss of the country's prestige, but you, forgive me, have so far ruined your country's well-being, you have not prevented poverty. And you don't worry, Unity! I'm sorry. I personally believe that the country's prestige is the well-being of the people and a high standard of people's lives. Take the village once to a small town in Latgale so he can see how these people live! For Latvian business card this does not make honor, forgive me. You bring prestigious people to regular, renovated manors - that is the prestige of the country! I very much call on you: until the court has proved the fault of man, like the 11 Ķekava Members, do not condemn Rimšēvičs, but get the court to clarify and prove more quickly, and inform the people what is then ultimately being investigated, which is what Rimšēvičs has violated. ( Milestones.) And only then vote for it. You will have the opportunity to vote! You will have the opportunity to vote when the court tells you he is guilty. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Prepare the draft decision so that the court will find out more quickly!” ) I personally believe that the Saeima (Inter-Charter) ... So I want to say one thing: it's very difficult to have the pain that the Saeima has done for 11 people and is going to do for the twelfth. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U439	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U440	Dear colleagues, Two cases in the context of this draft decision. The first is that morally ethical culture does not actually exist in our country's politics. It is not created, it is not developed, it is not tended. There are only certain examples in this respect. Here, in the hall, there are people who have proved this. But that's an exception! In practice, we do not have this culture. Of course, something needs to be started. This time the position politicians have chosen to start with Mr. Rimšēvičs. Maybe you should look at yourself first in this case and start with yourself? For there is a people's parable, that in another eye seeth a raven, and in his own eye seeth a log. That's one thing I wanted to say. The other thing I want to say is the prestige of the country and the responsibility for the prestige of the country. Unfortunately, I cannot agree with Mr Urbanovich that the prestige of the country now depends on Mr Rimšēvičs' behaviour or on our vote here in the Saeima. The prestige of the country... We should have thought about it earlier! It should have been thought about at the moment when the Prime Minister learned from the management of KNAB about such possible developments in the country. That is when we should have come together to our Heads of State, to communicate, no matter how. Because the head of the central bank is not a simple official, it is not even a minister, it is something much more - at least in the eyes of Europe, if it is not in our eyes. There should have come together to Mr Kučinska, President, Minister of Finance, other responsible officials and think (Dep. R.Kols: “The three notifications are there!” What will we do with the prestige of our country when our law enforcement authorities prove that Mr. Rimšēvičs is guilty? So what do you do? This was not done. We woke up and learned from other sources that something like this has happened in Latvia. In fact, he himself went and applied. ( Insight: “Where did you apply? ” ) But that is not what we are talking about. He left the airport for KNAB. He left himself, didn't take him at the airport with handcuffs, he didn't take him. Well, you all know, I won't tell you this story! But the question now is that on 16 February Mr Kučinska announced - all the media can read - that he is fully responsible for what KNAB is doing, he is informed, he knows. In that case, I have a very great request that this process should take place quickly and decisively so that we do not wear even weeks and not months, as has been customary in our practice for years. But this issue needs to be addressed quickly and decisively: it is guilty or not guilty. The materials must be collected and submitted to the court for a decision to be taken by the court. We are neither prosecutors nor judges. ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U441	Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U442	All tired... I'll be brief. ( Milestones.) Question... You don't have to mix criminal cases and morals. The first point. And the second point. I have followed the principle all my life. Do it like me: In the 11th Saeima, when my son was suspected of criminal responsibility, I set up a mandate. A grown son! I set up a mandate. The next day, the police said that there was no criminal case. Do it... ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U443	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U444	Thank you, Mrs. Schiff. I didn't want to deceive you for any moment that you and me and the rest of us now have to distinguish the question of Latvia's prestige in relation to the Saga of Rimšēvičs. All the bad thing that could have happened has already happened. What are we doing now? As I understand it, we want Latvia. How do we get out of this, so say, tupika? How do we get out of this situation where our government, with its agencies, with its controlled structures, with KNAB and other cooperation bodies, has reached? Of course, you are right that you could have, if you had wanted to, found a way to get us rid of this shameful obligation. But there's a situation, we're there, the Unity has put us in this procrust bed, where you can't be long or short. That is why I also say that there is no good decision, but it is best to figure out that we are not against Mr Rimšēvičs. If you want to, you can keep your thumbs, but we think about what we can do in this particular situation with this particular proposal - so that Latvia is better. Not for him, not for that, not for that. Not you, not me, but me at all. Because Latvia's prestige has already suffered. It doesn't matter what it's gonna end with. This ball is much louder, much bigger, with more, forgive, the power of explosion than the famous BBC movie about Daugavpils. This ball is much, much more powerful.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U445	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the invitation of the President of the Bank of Latvia to resign Ilmars Rimšēvičs”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - no, for - 2. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Review of communications". On violations of the Code of Ethics of Members of the Saeima. On the case of violation of the Code of Ethics of Members of the 12th Saeima Member Artusa Neminiņa Saeima. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U446	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! At its meeting on 28 February 2018, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications examined the application of Inguna Silver, a Member of the Saeima, in which it was asked to assess the compliance of the Parliamentary Member with the Code of Ethics of Saeima Members. In the course of the examination of the case, the commission evaluated the statements of Member Artuss Neimins from the Saeima district council meeting of 18 January and 25 January this year, which were addressed to Inguna Silver. The Commission found that, in the situation indicated in the application, Member Artuss Kaimiņš did not comply with paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Code of Ethics for Members of the Saeima. Thus, on the basis of paragraph 3 of the seventh paragraph of Article 179 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission decided by a majority to issue a written warning to the Member of the Saeima Artus Kaimiņš, notifying it at the Saeima sitting, as well as publishing the decision of the Commission in the official edition of the Official Journal of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U447	Thank you. We have heard the announcement. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. However, I must inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. On the question of Member Pimenova, Potapkina, Mirska, Cilevičs and Ribakov, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis, about international treaties of the Republic of Latvia in the field of education. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. Member Klementyeva, Potapakina, Arthur Rubika, Cileviča and Orlova Minister for Health, to perform the duties of “On extending the scope of medical treatment in the provision of rehabilitation services”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. Mr Kārlis Šadurskis, Minister for Education and Science, for Public Participation in Project Development, was Member of the Committee on Pimenova, Ribakova, Lazareva, Morozova and Urbanovich. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. On the question of Member Klementyeva, Ribakova, Orlov, Morozova and Adamson, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis about the implementation of the project “E-health in Latvia”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. About the question of Stepanenko, Silver, Meija, Morozova, Mežecka, Viļuma, Kleinberga, Krumina, Ruka, Šics and other Members of the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On the situation regarding self-liquidation of ABLV Bank””. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. The response to Members' questions will therefore take place today at 17.00 and the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Finance will come. Questions have been put to Members. Members Lazareva, Morozov, Zarins, Pimenov and Potapkins asked Members about quality control of education and the competitiveness of the education system. We shall hand it over to the President of the Minister. Members Zarins, Urbanovičs, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins and Potapkins submitted a question to Members “On Compliance of the Government of the Republic of Latvia’s Action with the People’s Interest of Latvia in Implementation of the System of Supporting Electricity”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Interface: “Ivar, we talked! ” “Let’s talk!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U448	First of all, when colleagues go home, do not forget to congratulate your loved ones. Take care, there's snow outside! And the substance of the question is very simple. The Minister for Economics told me with his mouths and mouths how the strawberry checks stations everywhere, how he has made informed decisions about cancellation. We have heard other versions of the concern that these decisions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs have not yet been considered and adopted in the public interest. The question is very simple: who are these decisions, how many decisions have been made, and what is the validity of these decisions? We hope that if an economic minister is responsible for his words, he has carried out a thorough examination and made careful, thoughtful decisions. Then he will not be afraid to present them to the leaders of the people and convince us. We very much hope that this time the Minister for Economics will not try to avoid providing the answers and the information he has been asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U449	Thank you. The question is referred to the Prime Minister. Members Zarins, Potapkins, Arthur Rubiks, Tutins and Raimonds Rubiks submitted a question to Members “On the inspection of subsidised power plants carried out by the Ministry of Economics, their impartiality and their relevance to the public interest”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Milestones.) That's great... Two reasoned questions were submitted. So this question is addressed to Arvil Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U450	Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I ask the members of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs to the Red Hall immediately - to the meeting of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U451	Thank you. Name for reading the results of the registration to a member of the Seimas Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U452	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Andris Buiķis, Valters Dambe, Ints Dālderis, Valdis Kalnozols, Jānis Klžas, Ainars Latkovskis, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Romanas Mežeckis, Romanas Miloslavskis, Sergejs Mirskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Imants Vādnieks, Edgars Putra, Artis Rasmanis, Jānis Ruks, Valdis Skujiņš, Vekto Spolitis, Juris Šulcs and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-08-PT12-472-U453	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
