ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-04-PT12-478-U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Saeima! Good afternoon, everybody! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! We will begin the official sitting of the Saeima on 4 May 2018, dedicated to the 28th anniversary of the restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-04-PT12-478-U2	Name of the holiday address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-04-PT12-478-U3	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! Big historical events eventually turn into legends, symbols, and emotional peaks from which you can draw strength. The vote of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia on 4 May 28 years ago was an epoch event – a climax for Awake! Restoring independence alongside the establishment of the state is the second most important event in the history of our country. Now we remember it as a miracle. As the day when the “golden horse ” ran on the Hill of Glass and awakened Saulcerite. But it wasn't so much that Saulvede did the impossible. We raised ourselves, we changed our destiny. This vote focused on the enormous force of the people! Aim to get rid of foreign power and deep love for their country, language, culture and ancestors' heritage. Freedom is the highest moral principle of our people. However, behind every historical event there are hundreds of invisible works that form the foundation of each step, creating a kick-off board so that the high goal can be achieved. Hundreds and thousands of people stood behind the 4th vote. They were the ones who formed a strong network of support across Latvia and they tortured the victory of the People's Front Block in the elections in March 1990. In January 1991 they coordinated barricades, where people without weapons, only with faith in themselves and independent Latvia went to defend our freedom. They helped mobilise people for the popular vote in March 1991, when the referendum imposed by Moscow on the maintenance of the USSR was to be overtaken. Thanks to everyone and thanks to anyone who did this seemingly invisible work, they supported, did not fear, and did not count hours. He went up and said – anyone else, if not me. 30 years since the Latvian People's Front Congress will take place this autumn. The People's Front was the most ambitious Latvian popular movement we have ever experienced. At that time we were “at the shoulder as ranks”. The power of the people was awakened. Dear Members of the Supreme Council! In addition to the 138 Members who voted in favour of the Declaration of Independence on 4 May, I would like to pay fullest respect to those who created this historical document – lawyers, scientists, professionals in various fields. In his report on the declaration, Roman Aptis emphasises the contribution of Egil Levite. Levite’s work became the backbone of the declaration. At the beginning of the declaration, Rolands Ricards and Vilnis Eglējs also worked with it. Gunārs Kusiņš, Aivars Endzins, Tālavs Jundzis, Andrejs Krastiņš and many others made a big contribution. Everyone with their own eyes, with their own degree of courage, but conscious of the great goal. They created a document that helped to do the most important thing – to restore the state of Latvia. We rarely mention the Citizens' Congress today, but it also has great merit in maintaining the idea of continuity. Thanks to the Citizens' Congress initiative, the registration of Latvian citizens was carried out and over 700 thousand citizens and their descendants registered during the half-year. At that time, it was not so obvious. Only after a tempestuous discussion was the idea understood and accepted by the People's Front. Thanks to freedom of thought, unwavering patriotism and ironic logic, the only right path was chosen – the adoption of the doctrine of continuity of the country. All of these works were made persistently and patiently – as a breaking up of a complicated article. Also wise and prudent – how to prepare for escape from captivity. It was a great time, and it was a long-sized man who led the development of these events. Today we must also be able to be big in our thoughts and actions to defend Latvia! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we can say with satisfaction that the best result has been achieved indisputably. Latvia is a democratic, legal, social and national state. This is enshrined in our Constitution. Latvia lives in Western civilization, European political and cultural space. In the North Atlantic Security Area and the 35 most advanced countries of the world, the OECD. Latvians are typical at important times to connect in a unified chain, connect invisible links and make the right choices. This was the case when it was restoring independence, and this was the case at all the most important points in the resolution. If this were not the case, the state of Latvia would not exist. Thank you to friends and allies around the world who helped us. Where were we 28 years ago?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The situation of the time in Latvia was recorded in several documents adopted by the Supreme Council on 4 May 1990 together with the Declaration of Independence. The invitation provides the people of Latvia with a succinct description of what took place during the 50 years of Soviet occupation – artificially induced migration, forced assimilation, desensitisation of Latvian culture, elimination of culture of minorities living in Latvia, and destruction of natural balance of national relations. Not to mention economic decline. At that time, the legislator made it clear: restoring independence was and is the Latvian nation's struggle for survival. The future of our people and the existence of the state are a cultural, ideological and moral issue for us. And we will always defend these values! We are aware that many still live in Latvia, for which our country's independence has been set up in the eye. They are still trying to impose their imperial thinking. They stand for special rights, want to dictate rules and ignore the laws and language of the land in which they live. They are trying to discredit Latvia internationally, distributing false and distorted information. They cannot waive the privileges guaranteed by the Soviet imperial rule. Our answer is clear no! Latvia's state, Latvian, just like freedom, is our legal right. To the full, they can only be implemented in a national country, in Latvian Latvia. Latvianism as a fundamental value is coded in the very idea of the Latvian country – it is in the centre of the whole. The state of Latvia has been founded and its independence has been restored so that Latvian nation can exist. To be admitted, we have not yet done enough to strengthen Latvian identity, we have not fully overcome the consequences of the Soviet occupation. Therefore, thank you to all patriots of Latvia of different nationalities, who every day, with their attitude and with their work, demonstrate their trust in our country and respect for the values that unite us. Honourable Members! Parliament is the one with the highest powers to draw up laws and also to help shape an environment in which laws are respected and function in real terms. We, 12. Members of the Saeima, we have worked on very important draft laws. They have improved security, energy independence, demographics, business and other areas. Our decisions have helped to strengthen the values and highest goals contained in the Constitution in everyday life. Recently, we voted in favour of amendments to the Education Act, which provides for the transition to education in the state language. But people ask – why was the Saeima able to make such a decision only after 28 years? If the delay in the decision on education in the state language was misunderstood as kindness to Gentiles, then it has in fact damaged the cohesion of society and the strengthening of the Latvian language. Rather, it has been a political folly that has been pulling us back in the past for almost thirty years. The language is the identity of our people and our country. Now it needs a new breath. Because it's getting out of the air again. Therefore, the vote on education in Latvian by importance is comparable to the parliamentary vote on the Preamble of the Satversme. There is another painful problem that prevents us, as a society, from freely breathing and living in prosperity. It is corruption that forces us to the ground as a coat of lead. Some use it to be dirty, but for all others it loses faith and confidence in honesty. Corruption undermines the value of the country and undermines its sustainability and reputation. It undermines political, legal and moral standards. It breaks down democracy. Combating corruption is also a matter of security. ‘ Bryan Vitmore, journalist of Radio Free Europe, emphasizes the interests of the Kremlin. ‘ Putin Russia is trying to spread its corrupt business model to create countries dependent on the Kremlin,” warns the journalist. We do not think about corruption every day geopolitically. Entrepreneurs face unfair procurement in the public sector, law enforcement must combat bribery, smuggling and money laundering. However, in the perception of corruption, the point of break has not been reached. Latvians have a great experience of non-violent resistance. In this way, we could also resist corruption. To agree that we will not give bribes, let them not take advantage of their office, let us not accept among ourselves those who have been unfair or who have acted criminally. The legal network must be so fine that it does not pass through any of the small fish and strong enough to keep the big fish as well. As we have seen recently, the catch in this network can even be amazingly heavy. Society can focus its moral strength in the fight against corruption, and in the end we will be surprised at how much we will all gain from it. Ladies and gentlemen! The Saeima has decided to open so-called cheque bags, and the KGB's document research commission will offer a way to do so. These “bags” should be opened by the end of the year. We will have to look at the past. Do not turn aside, with a full sense of responsibility and a very balanced sense of responsibility. Identifying not only Czech rapporteurs, but also recruiters – KGB operational staff. And also the commparty's functions, which directly monitored the cheque and gave it instructions. This will require a great deal of study, and it will be morally hard. But there is no other way. Only – openness, speaking and explaining these issues. Only by unlocking this painful knot in the lives of the people will we become a much stronger society. Ladies and gentlemen! Our moral values are also common democratic values in Europe. Never before has our country been so deeply anchored in Western democratic institutions. Latvia has excellent neighbours, with whom we work closely in the Baltic and Nordic region. But we also have one very complex neighbour. The Kremlin, regrettably, sees only enemies around itself. Arms raging, unpredictable and provocative behaviour, cyber threats and hybrid threats have become everyday not only in the Baltic Sea region. The entire Western democracy is in danger. It is clear to all transatlantic societies that there will be no forthcoming change. The only answer is to strengthen our security and defence, European and NATO cooperation. I am very pleased with what we have achieved in the area of defence. The fact that the centenaries of our country can expect to be safe is a huge result of the joint work of Latvian patriots. Thank you to our Armed Forces, the Earthguard, the soldiers of the European and NATO member states, who are strengthening our security on the shoulder to the land of Latvia! The honorary case is to support the Earthguard. Thank you to the businessmen who understand it and who do it! National security and defence must be developed not only at military level. It is much more difficult to protect the virtual borders and borders that are in our minds in the Kremlin's information war. Dear colleagues, It is most secure to live in a land where protection is a matter of honor for every member of society. Honorable Youths! Honorable fellow citizens! Since the restoration of independence, children have grown up. It is a new generation – free, self-sustaining and safe in your spirit. Now they are the ones who create a vision of the country's development over the next hundred years. And one of the most important preconditions for this is education. It is also most directly related to the economic growth of the country. And these are so-called hard subjects – mathematics and science. These are also languages and the ability to think innovatively. Good education is and will be the Glass Mountain. Its peak can only be achieved with perseverance and desire for excellence. The second thing that contributes to growth and gives more motivation to society as a whole is the development of the middle class. The central layer is the core of every strong country and we must continue to develop it. I am pleased that the Saeima is drafting the Diaspora law. One sixth of the Latvians live outside the country's borders – it is our skirt and we should help it to maintain the Latvian identity, language and culture. Help those who are going to return to their homeland. For without the support of the Diaspora, Latvia would not be what it is today. Honorable 12. Members of the Saeima! Colleagues! Thank you for your work in this term! Thank you for making decisions that are important to society! Honorable citizens of Latvia! The centenary of our country is the right time for us to reunite in a single chain. Together we must create such a strong platform that will be able to hold and develop Latvia in the most difficult times of change! We will also think about this in five months’ time when we will go for a new Saeima. Let us not divide the power of the people, let us not allow risky electoral experiments! It is our Latvia, which must become the main winner in this election. That's the most important thing! I have just read what the children of independence think about patriotism. They say: “I want the land in which I am born and plant to be preserved and developed. That nature, the perception of our nation’s world, the intelligence and spiritual values may not be lost.” Patriotism, in their opinion, is ready to work for this purpose, to invest in it work, time, thoughts to make life in Latvia better, so that there is enough breath and space for Latvianism. Yes! Latvia is the best place for us in the world to live in. Here we are born, here we raise our children. Here we put our fingers on the ground to feel its strength, learn from the sea for eternity, and set up oak continuity. At the Freedom Monument we come to raise the view of three stars. Here we sing our Light Castle at the Song Festival. Dear compatriots in Latvia and everywhere in the world! All Latvian patriots! Latvia is part of us, and we very much need Latvia. Let us protect our country! May Latvia live forever! God bless Latvia! (Applause) ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.) Thank you. On 4 May 2018, the Saeima announced the formal sitting as closed. Let's celebrate freedom together!
