ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! It's 10. As a result, we launched an extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 13 November 2018. On the agenda is the draft decision on the rules for the establishment of permanent committees of the Saeima. Members Agešins, Latkovskis, Dzintars, Beitnere-Le Galla, Strīķe, Zakaitistovs, Mūrniece and others submitted a draft decision on the rules for the establishment of permanent committees of the Saeima. Does anyone want to speak on behalf of the applicants? No, no. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U2	Madam President, Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! This is the last moment to decide on these rules, because it is the eighth day that we have taken an oath. Time to go. This Saeima is much slower than the previous one: 10. The Saeima formed commissions on the third day, 11. The Saeima – the fourth day, 12. The Saeima – on the third day. Today is the eighth day, but we are only talking about the approval of the rules. Of course, I call on you to approve these rules. At the same time, I also invite you not to hesitate – do not hesitate to create commissions because (Dep. I. Zarins: “What are you looking at? Look at that side!” ) This Saeima has not been given 12 or 15 years to do the same job as before. Life in the world is getting faster – we want it or not. Secondly. We have a responsibility in front of our constituents. And voters don't understand why we... Before the elections, we all tried to convince our constituents to vote for us because we want to come and work here, and today is the eighth day, but we have not yet created the main instrument, the Saeima Commission. Finally. The argument that we should first establish a government or agree on a government, and only then will we set up parliamentary commissions, does not stand the criticism. Colleagues, read the Constitution! It is clearly written: Latvia is a parliamentary state. Governments come and go, whereas parliamentary commissions work under all circumstances – whether a minister has changed or the Prime Minister has gone. I therefore urge you not to delay the establishment of parliamentary commissions and to vote on these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U3	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U4	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr Bondara, if you hadn't been busy for three minutes, talking about whether we will vote or not on the rules for setting up permanent commissions, then... If you have already opened the debate, then I will explain to you, and to all the others, what has happened in the last week - eight days, as you say. Nothing happens in the Saeima. Work is on the ground. And you say, How shall we look to our constituents? You look at your constituents in the eyes and tell them that last week you met with both the FAO, the New Unity and the National Union (and another party I forgot to name, but in any case it was neither the JIP nor the JPV LV) and you already divided the commissions! And so we do not participate in this process in the way you try to crystallise it here. And we don't want to argue or fight. ( Insight from the AP!) We want to establish a normal, stable – Martin Bondar, stable – government. Stable! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars: “Tell me what is “we”?” ) And if, in the case of something – there are session intervals – breaks between autumn and winter session, winter and... We can also extend Members' working hours if? 24/7, Marty, huh? And you don't have to go on this vacation if you need to... You don't have to work according to the traditions that have been established here in the Saeima. A normal, stable government must now be established! Please confirm as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U5	I closed the debate. I call for a decision and a vote. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision "On the Rules for the Establishment of Permanent Committees of the Saeima"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined and we need to register. Please call me! Please register the Members! While the results of registration are being prepared, time for notifications. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U6	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In this sitting, today, there were, therefore, two speakers who made it clear that the Saeima had to start working. Then I would like to inform you with my statement that on 6 November 2018, Members Rihards Kols, Reinis Znotiņš, Jānis Dombrava, Edwins Šnore, Ritvars Jansons and Linda Ozola have set up a group of Members for cooperation with the US Parliament, and the first meeting of this group will take place today at 1 p.m. in the Foreign Affairs Commission's meeting room. Everyone interested in participating is welcome to attend this meeting. And an equivalent statement is about the cooperation of the group of Members with the United Kingdom Parliament of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The Members Linda Ozola, Jānis Dombrava, Rihards Kols, Tālis Linkaits, Janīna Kursīte and Dace Melbārde have formed this group, and today the first meeting of this group will take place in the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting room at 14.00. Any interested party wishing to participate in this group is invited to attend the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U7	Colleagues! I must add that there was a meeting of the Saeima Presidium and the Fraces Council. We decided on the order in which these groups are set up – that all Members have equal opportunities to participate. I ask the Members who wish to work in these cooperation groups to take account of the decision taken by the Group Council - a decision that we, all the political groups, have taken together. So, as I understand it, there is a call for Members who would like to set up groups for cooperation with the United States and the United Kingdom. Name for the statement to Member Linda Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U8	Dear colleagues, Similarly, as the previous colleague said, we initiated on 6 November... We have also decided to set up a group of Members to cooperate with the Norwegian Parliament. And I would like to inform you that 20 minutes after this sitting of the Saeima will be held... Right here, in the Yellow Hall, there will be a first meeting – the setting-up meeting of this cooperation group – to which, of course, all interested parties from all political groups are invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U9	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U10	Honourable Members! In five minutes, the Saeima Yellow Hall... I invite all interested and interested Members to participate in the group's cooperation with the founding meeting of Ukrainian parliaments. After five minutes – in the Yellow Hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U11	Name to Maria Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration from the tribunal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U12	He didn't register, John Adamson (The intermediate cry, "Well that's not, it's not!" ), Raimonds Bergmanis (Interface.) , Jānis Dombrava, Raivis Dzintars, Dace Melbārde... And, Karina Sprude... Yes, John Wucan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-13-PT13-503-U13	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
