ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in Saeima's meeting room so that we can start the autumn session of the Saeima and its first session. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and the draft decision on the release of Mārtiņš Kazaks from the office of a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks that the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals be put on the agenda for the second reading of the draft law on the Czech Game Law until 10 September 2018. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda, reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “No! ”) ) There are no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Law” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr Judine will talk about it. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U2	Dear colleagues, Perhaps I would not speak or invite you to vote in favour of this draft law and to pass it on to the Commission if I did not hear the determination of one colleague representing the Union of Green Farmers not to accept such amendments. And if that's what I think, I'd like you to really understand what this is about. It is about the right of journalists to get acquainted with completed criminal materials. The Ministry of Justice made a proposal on which we will be discussing later. Proposal for a Criminal Procedure Law But in addition to this, it is necessary to amend the Criminal Law by providing that if a journalist has information that affects individual persons (the Head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) and what is the sensitivity that has been given to fulfil an important, societal task... if its information is unlawfully reproduced, disseminated, responsibility must be established. So the draft law I am talking about now is about amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. Please support and transfer to the Legal Commission for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U3	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Legal Commission... The Cabinet of Ministers... The draft law submitted by the Legal Commission “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” was submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the Legal Commission “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and Their Managers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Council of Europe Convention on Cinema Co-productions (revised)” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the agreement of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the automatic academic recognition of qualifications related to higher education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the National Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilizers” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procurement in the Field of Defence and Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Schengen Information System Act” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the amendment of the Constitution of the Latvian Maritime Academy” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Monitoring of the Food Chain” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Andrejs Klementyeva, Jānis Urbanovičs, Vital Orlova, Andra Morozova and Sergej Potapakin's draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Pensions" be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U4	Yeah, thank you. High honourable Members! I will inform you very briefly of our legislative initiative. Maybe everyone couldn't read the annotation, and I'll try to quote it briefly. Until 2011 (Sitting driver knocked with hammer.) at the end of the pensioners, who... Well, to be correct, those people who applied for pensions were calculated by 1996 with a formula that paid 70 Sundays... After we moved to the euro area, it cost one euro. But in 2012 these pensioners stopped... no longer grant this premium. We believe that this is a violation and have submitted an application to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court adopted a decision with a judgment: if there is a difficult economic situation in the country, they have the right to withdraw from political... the premiums granted. But in this judgment of the Constitutional Court there appeared such a sentence: if the economic indicators improve, politicians can make a decision and return to these bonuses. Today, more than 100 thousand pensioners - 80 thousand pensioners and 20 thousand pensioners with disabilities - do not receive their bonus. On average, they do not receive EUR 25-30 present. If you work this norm all the time... We're... I ask you to hand it over to the Commission, and in the Commission we will then assess how this is possible today. According to my calculations and those of the ministry, we can afford it. I would like to remind you that the surplus in the national social budget today is almost half a billion. And if we take five percent - 25 million - for this measure, then we can, so to speak, equalise those people who retired before 1 January 2012 and later. This means that this bill is not some kind of electoral populism. It is a draft law that I ask the Commission to refer to it for evaluation and analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U5	Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Legalization of Documents” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On the Wag Convention on the Elimination of the Legalisation Requirement of Foreign Public Documents” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Notary Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Japan, on the other hand”, submitted by the Cabinet be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Documents” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. Members of the Saeima Rihards Kols, Atis Lejiņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Edwards Smiltēns, Nellija Kleinberga, Mārtiņš Šics, Ritvars Jansons, Kārlis Krēsliņš, Andris Buiķis and Inga Bite have submitted an own-initiative proposal – a draft decision on the communication about the Ukrainian citizen director Oleg Sencova. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? ( The interdependencies of the fraction are: ‘ Yes! ’ ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “What do you have?” ) Consequently, Members have reservations. Member Rubik has reservations. Okay. We must therefore decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. One Member can speak 'for', one for 'no'. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Richard Kohl.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U6	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, More than 100 days ago, Ukrainian director Oleg Sencov, while in a strict regime colony in Siberia, announced a hunger strike requiring the Russian authorities to release all Ukrainian political prisoners. His message echoed all over the world, also in Latvia. The story of Oleg Sencov began on 10 May 2014 at night, when he was arrested by the Russian security service at his home in Simferopol, the Russian occupied Crimean capital. He had a plastic bag on his head, and it was kept tied until he lost consciousness. He was threatened with violence and death in order to make plans to organize bombs and other terrorists. Sencov met his lawyer only 17 days after his arrest - when he was moved from Simferopol to Moscow. Sencova was imposed on Russian citizenship, although he has never renounced his Ukrainian citizenship. It was a regular Russian political patchwork, in which the Verdict of the Court was written with the Kremlin's hand, an accusation of white threads. During the court proceedings, no evidence was provided showing that Sencova was guilty or involved in crimes committed against him. At the hearing, Sencov insisted on his integrity. The case should have gone wrong, especially when the main witness of the charge to the court showed that he had been indicted against Sencov. But all this did not prevent the Russian military court from condemning Sencov for 20 years in a strong regime colony in Siberia. Oleg Sencov is currently in prison just because he did not want to renounce the Ukrainian passport. Only because he peacefully protested against Russia's illegal occupation of Crimea. When applying for hunger, Sencov’s goal was not his personal freedom, but 64 other Ukrainian political prisoners. We have always stood firm on Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial indivisibility, and our support for Ukraine is not limited to areas or lines on the map, but above all to the people, to the people of Ukraine. Unfortunately, today we need to talk again about Russia and its responsibility against international laws, principles and human rights. These types of trials without a rule of law in Russia are not uncommon, and the unlawful detention, removal and conviction of Sencova is unfortunately no exception. The case of Sencova - his abduction, his removal from a sovereign state and the subsequent political court - is a direct violation of international law, human rights and the fundamental freedoms of an individual, which enlightenes the cynical and illegal nature of the Russian judicial system. A system in which, for political reasons, the laws, the principles of a fair trial and human rights can be ignored is dangerous both for its citizens and for the international community. Latvia, as a democratic and legal state, must be clearly stated: such a farce of the rule of law is not and will not be adopted in the international community. By taking a quiet look and not expressing our opinion, we will express our support for the ubiquitousness of the authoritarian regime. In silence, we agree with the Kremlin that the violation of human rights and international law is a norm. We, not only as a state of the UN Human Rights Council, but also as a democratic state and as a part of the international community, must join those countries and organisations that call on Russia to immediately release Sencova and return to order where human rights are protected and not the interests of the regime. I invite you, colleagues, to remember the principles on which the country of Latvia has been built and the role and responsibility of us in the international community, and to support the initiative to condemn Russia, calling for the immediate release of Oleg Sencov - a Ukrainian citizen and a Russian political prisoner. By allowing the degradation of the rule of law in the world, we also allow the degradation of the rule of law here - in Latvia. I call for the draft law to be put on the agenda and, from this point of view, to support this statement. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U7	“Pret” has applied to speak to Member Sergey Mirski.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 30 August, we held a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which dealt with this issue. Consequently, the Foreign Affairs Commission adopted this statement as a statement by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Mr Kola's question was then raised so that this proposal could be led as a draft decision of the Saeima. And there was a vote. The result of the vote, as we saw, was: only two people voted 'for' - Kols and Dombrava - and Lejiņš abstained and Ojars Ēriks Kalniņš, Rasmanis, Kalnozols, Mirskis and Raimonds Rubiks. So in fact, the Foreign Affairs Commission voted 'no' to direct this statement to the Saeima at today's sitting. We stand by the decision of the Foreign Affairs Commission, and that is why we are opposed to the fact that this draft decision of the Saeima would be seen at the Saeima sitting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U9	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the Saeima's draft decision on the inclusion of the Ukrainian citizen director Oleg Sencova on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the draft decision is on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Anria Matīss on 21 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Anria Matīss requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 21 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 21 June this year, Mr Cilinskis was given unpaid leave to the Member. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Einars Cilinski requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 21 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima asks to change the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendment to Criminal Law” drafted by the committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And Members Astrid Harju, Gaidis Berzins, Jānis Upenieks, Edgars Putra and Hosam Abu Meri are asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ Astrid Harju, a Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U10	Good morning, honourable Saeima! The grounds for submitting an amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax are based on the current situation in the financial system of non-governmental organisations, because there are two objective reasons for this. The first is the tax reform of 2017, which results in companies having all the right to legitimately direct their profits... Reinvesting their profits in the development and production of companies, which has led to a sharp decline in donations to non-governmental organisations which have acquired the status of public benefit organisation. And the second objective reason is the clean-up process of the Latvian financial system, as a result of which the funds holding the funding “ABLV Bank” have submitted written statements to non-governmental organisations that with 1 July of this year the funding will cease. As a result, two very important financial instruments in the non-governmental sector have dropped sharply as a revenue base and, compared to last half of last year, they represent about 30-50 per cent of revenue. Thus, the activities of the non-governmental sector in Latvia in general are at risk. And that's why these amendments (the head of the sitting knocked out with a hammer.) provide taxpayers with the opportunity to voluntarily channel one per cent of their personal income tax payments to an existing set of packages for a public benefit organisation. And we all know that these non-governmental organisations - both larger and smaller - are active in areas where everyone lives. They perform the delegated functions of both state and local government, as well as the voluntary self-receiving functions of both charity and social sphere, education, sport, culture, health, integration... And it could go on. These organisations have brought people together on a voluntary basis and are actively involved. The idea, aim and purpose of these amendments is to promote the participation of democratic civil society in the activities of non-governmental organisations and, in this way, to strengthen closer cooperation between non-governmental organisations and public and municipal administration, thus facilitating dialogue between citizens and representatives of the government. Request to support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U11	Thank you. Do Members object to the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision on the dismissal of Mārtiņš Kazaks from the office of a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U12	Good morning, dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the request made by Mārtiņš Kazaks for his release from office as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. The Board of Fiscal Discipline has also addressed both the Commission and the Saeima with such an application. The draft decision of the Saeima has been prepared: to release Mārtiņš Kazaks from the post of a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline at his own wish. At the same time, I would like to inform you that Mārtiņš Kazaks was a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline, which was led by the Saeima, and that means that the Saeima should lead a new member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline, which we should do during this term. Thank you. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Mārtiņš Kazaks from the office of a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U14	Hello! The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” for the third reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U16	2. - Proposal by Zanda Kalniņa-Lukaševičs, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Partly supported, included in proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U17	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U18	3. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U20	4. - Proposal by Kalniņa-Lukaševičs, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Partly supported, included in proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U21	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U22	5. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U24	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Mr. Partly supported, included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U25	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U26	7. - The MEP's proposal by John Upenieks. Partly supported, included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U27	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U28	8 / 8 - Mr. Agent's proposal. Partly supported, included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U29	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U30	9. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Partly supported, included in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U31	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U32	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U34	11. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Partly supported, included in proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U35	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U36	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U37	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U38	13. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U40	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included in proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U41	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U42	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U44	16. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U46	I ask the Saeima to support the adoption of the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U47	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U48	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability”. I would remind you that the initiative that the legislator should set the regulation, allowing the judge to send to the extraordinary review of qualification, was proposed by the Supreme Court, later discussed it also in the Council for the Judiciary. There was a broad but supportive debate on this. There are issues that will certainly continue to be discussed. In particular, about possibilities for the President of the Court to ask to assess the qualification of judges out of order. Such discussions were also held by the Legal Commission. At the moment, the Legal Commission has completed its work. In the table below, we see two proposals. The first is this most important proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides for the transmission of a judge for the assessment of an extraordinary professional activity, both in cases where the Judicial Disciplinary Committee decides to impose disciplinary action, and in cases where the Disciplinary Board, when examining a disciplinary case, is limited to the examination of this case. In addition to this, the Disciplinary Board will also be able to decide on an extraordinary assessment of the professional activity, and this will be possible in cases where the statutory limitation period laid down by the Disciplinary Board has expired. The Legal Commission therefore supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U49	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U50	Colleagues, I call for this proposal to be supported. We will adopt this draft law now at third reading, which will mean that these amendments will enter into force. And we all have the hope that this will solve a big problem. But will that be the case? This August, you remember, a study on insolvency was presented, and materials for 2008-2014 were collected there. Names were named - the names of judges who make very suspicious decisions - but none of them were called to account. Why? Because judges can be held liable within two years of the violation being committed. Then the case was not initiated, there was no responsibility. We believe that the problem can now be solved by adopting these amendments. Partly, maybe, yes... Because, as Mr Berzins rightly pointed out, if the prescription is over and the case is over because of the prescription, then an extraordinary evaluation will be possible. But I am concerned that we will not solve the problem by the end of the day. Because the proposal, which I hope we will accept, says that an extraordinary evaluation is possible in three cases, namely, if disciplinary punishment is imposed, it is logical and understandable. The second case is that there is no penalty at all, but there is a need for evaluation. That is good too. And the third case - the case has been closed because of the statute of limitations. Looks logical, but there's one problem. We have judges who took very strange decisions in the area of insolvency, for example in 2012, 2013. Will the case be initiated in order to terminate subsequently on account of the limitation period? Probably not. And if the case is not opened, then it will not end. I therefore doubt very much that the judges mentioned in that summary... they will not be held liable, even if there are irregularities, and the evaluation may also not take place. What can you do? I have a call on the Minister of Justice to act and to initiate the relevant disciplinary proceedings. I understood that colleagues would end them because of the statute of limitations, but this would make it possible to assess the qualifications of the judges concerned. We hear from Mr Rasnačs and from the Ministry of Justice that there is a prescription, there is a prescription, there is a prescription. Colleagues, I would like to focus on another thing that I don't think... I have not heard that it should have been given attention. In particular, we have one summary of insolvency proceedings between 2008 and 2014, and another summary has been published in August. The Supreme Court compiled materials on insolvency proceedings from 2015 to 2018, and there are all possibilities to prosecute judges who make strange decisions. But is there any disciplinary action proposed? I haven't heard it. I have a call on the National Union for Justice, which has been working for a long time in the area of justice, to act! And not just because the elections are now approaching, but because the insolvency problem has to be put right in the end, it has to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U51	Thank you. I closed the debate. So the speaker has asked for support for the Commission's proposal. Members are in favour. But the name to the commission president is for an explanation.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U52	Yeah, thank you. On behalf of the Commission, there is a small comment. I think that Mr Judine is very well aware of the distinction between disciplinary responsibility and criminal responsibility, and what has been said about the information that has been made public here, namely an assessment of a number of decisions taken... As the Chairman of the Legal Commission and a member of the Council for the Judiciary, I can inform you that the Council for the Judiciary decided to send this report to the Prosecutor General (Mr Judina, I hope he is listening), in particular by referring to these specific cases. Now there is no more talk about possible disciplinary responsibility, but there is the question of whether a judge should be called under criminal law. As far as the proposed disciplinary cases are concerned, this information can be obtained on the website, and this is public information. A number of disciplinary cases have also been initiated for the period from 2015 to 2018, including on the basis of applications of the Minister of Justice. Request to support this proposal
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U53	Thank you. Members support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U54	2. is a clarification proposal by the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U56	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability to be discussed in the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U58	Colleagues! We see the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Judicial Power””. The Commission has received and examined eight proposals. Most of these proposals have been tabled by Mr Valdis Kalnozols, and I draw attention to the fact that they are, by their very nature, recurring, coincide with the proposals made at second reading, which the Saeima did not support. We heard Mr. Nanozol at the committee meeting. Proposal No 1 is a proposal from the Member, Mr Kalnozol. In fact, this is linked to a number of future proposals. In particular, he proposes to create judges for family cases rather than family cases. The question is, therefore, the specialisation of judges. I can point out that specialisation is already taking place in courts. And family cases or family disputes are examined mainly by judges with appropriate specialisation, and the law also states that in this case judges must learn a special training programme. So it's 1. - The proposal from Member Nernosol - has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U59	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U60	Hello, colleagues! Hello, brothers and sisters! I would like to say that I have done some work for some political forces so that they do not be ashamed of what is going on in the judiciary at the end of this Saeima's work. We know and read... Read about problems in the judiciary almost every week. And I call all of us to believe that we can sort out something in this system! Believe that we're not just button clickers here! That we can do something in this country anyway! And there is no problem in the judiciary, as we will punish them. The problem with the judiciary is that the best, most intelligent lawyers are not motivated to become judges. We are, in fact, disgusting about the inhabitants of our country without creating a system for the most intelligent and best lawyers to become judges, so that the position of a judge should be the highest level of a lawyer's career. For this moment, we believe that anyone who has heated the salt may, forgive, be a judge in the court corridors of his seat. Well, that's not it! Now, spare the people! And in matters concerning children's matters... Well, it's not legal. Well, it's not legal matters - children and family issues. They must be separated. And in the rest of the world... Western Europe, all over the world... In America, for example, there are family courts that deal with these issues by intelligent people, well - lawyers, psychologists, and not psychologists who have mastered their knowledge in some course. And I want to tell my former business partner - now go to these courts! Come on! Look at these decisions, my good business partner! And then you'll see with horror what's going on there!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U61	Talk about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U62	And if you really want to sort this out, then my proposal must be supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It would be good for that proposal, Valdis!” ) There should be such judges for family affairs, and these judges for family affairs should be experts in life, good lawyers and legal practitioners, and practitioners. There can be no judge in family affairs who has not arranged his own private life! Well, how do you imagine that someone who has not arranged his own private life will decide on the private lives of others?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, what do you think is that a person who has not raised a child himself will decide on bringing up other children? Now go... I would really ask my ex-business partner to go to the courts, to live there once, to see what decisions are there... And also, dear colleagues - some political forces are breaking in here, and most of them are breaking in here because we have little credibility... Starting in a slow spirit to show that we can still change this system, we can arrange for the next, 13, the Saeima not to be divided and it really can form someone... in the slow spirit of our country... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece! For the proposal!’ ) Great request - believe! To believe that we are the leaders of the people (Intersarists) that we can sort out our country and take the shortcuts away from some populist political forces on the show.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U63	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U64	Colleagues! I draw attention to the fact that Mr Kalnozol did not, in essence, speak about this proposal and that he also objected, pointing out that family law matters are not legal matters, but at the same time pointing out that the United States is being dealt with by good lawyers. On behalf of the Commission, I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U65	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 4, against -62, abstaining - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U66	2. There is also a motion from the Member, Kalnozol, which actually changes the concept of defence by providing that any person, including an authorised person, has the right to the defence. It should be noted that this issue should be seen in conjunction with the Criminal Procedure Law as such and also including legal assistance provided by the State. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U67	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U68	Good afternoon again, brothers and sisters! I understand that, for this moment, our courts have such a proper legal lobby. And if you had been faced with the rule of law, you would know that there is such a small absurdity, which I think is the main reason why we have no confidence in it. A person who decides in court shall receive at least five to ten times less than a person who is a defender or representative in that court. And what do you want?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let this man, who sits like a judge... How should he decide if he knows that the person standing before him receives five to ten times the salary for his work? I may understand some who no longer want to be here in the Saeima and know this system well. If you know the system and go as a lawyer, and you know who the judge... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, imagine that this is me! What would you do?” ) Vot, judge Kalnins has such political power behind his back and those people, judge Berzins has such political power behind his back and such people... Let's say, judge Ivanov has this... I understand the following advantages: at any time this lawyer can come and come to this judge. And our judges are - forgive me! - low pay. In fact, they are easy to manipulate. And not in one case a man manipulates money... all manipulate many different ways. I have a request: Perhaps, though, to sort out the judiciary in a slow spirit, so that the judges are truly wise lawyers for us. And this question of lawyers... Let's stop lobbying! That's the judge... The judge receives 15 euros per hour, but the lawyer in the court has a minimum of 75 euros, usually 400 euros per hour. Are we here getting this salary?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I want to ask you: do we get this salary? Well, maybe we stop lobbying one particular specialist! I understand: there are lawyers sitting here who may try to become lawyers afterwards... But we need to care not for lawyers, but for the people, for the citizens, so that they are satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U69	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U70	Yeah. Dear colleagues, So I draw attention to the fact that, first of all, the proposal does not relate to the size of lawyers' fees. Secondly, you can agree with Mr. Kalnozol that judges may sometimes receive less, yes, and we will also talk about this in the near future in the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy in connection with the execution of the Constitutional Court judgment. However, I do not want to agree that the judge behind the back has political power. I remind you that judges are independent in accordance with the law. The Commission did not support this proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U71	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 42, for - 12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U72	3. There is also a proposal from Member Valdis Kalnozols. A proposal similar to the contents was examined at second reading. True, the title of the article, if I am not wrong... In this case, the article is entitled ‘Fairness’ and the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U73	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U74	Good afternoon, brothers! In my opinion, a political force that controls and has controlled the law enforcement system, the judiciary, for many recent years, should fall and stand up for my proposal. Because this proposal is what... The failure to accept this proposal leads to a lack of confidence in the judiciary and, in fact, also to a lack of confidence in the political power which has built up this judiciary. And let us put an end to this principle of competition! Perhaps many of us, the leaders of the people, were not in court. It is not justice that prevails in the court, it is competition that will be better interpreted by the law. And then you wonder that our people do not trust the rule of law, nor do they trust us. That’s why I have a big one, Dep. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, please conduct a sitting!” ), it is a very important proposal that our courts should not have competition, as one translates, interprets the law, and wins, trying, as they say, to interpret the law, but really rule justice. And let us understand that justice must make just decisions. I think it is in our own interest, because we too... after a while let's go to court and see how two compete - 400 euros per hour! - in their interpretations. Well, you don't need this thing! We need courts where fair decisions are made. And I say to you that if you had experience in our legal system, then I am deeply convinced that you would support all my proposals and fight for them to be introduced.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U75	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U76	Yeah, colleagues. So this proposal, the essence of this proposal, is actually to change the civil procedural regulation, because we now have similar regulation in the administrative process. In fact, the court is more involved in hearing the dispute, while the civil procedure is based on the principle of competition. This means, for example, that if the creditor disputes with the debtor whether or not the debtor has to repay the loan received, evidence will have to be provided not to the creditor or debtor but to be sought by the court. Consequently, it is not correct in nature and is not in line with civil procedural regulation and doctrine as such. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U77	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -4, against -62, abstaining -11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U78	4. there is a motion from Member Valdis Kalnozols, which states that only a person who has reached the age of 40 may be a judge of a district court. For the second reading, there was a proposal that covered 45 years. The law is 30 years old. Well, it should also be noted that Mr. Kalnozol did not propose to change the age of the regional court judge in such a case. And so, if we support this proposal, it happens that a district (city) court judge should be 40 years old, while a regional court judge may be 30 years old. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U79	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U80	Hello! I believe that this proposal, too, should, to say, fall and rise to this political power, which was responsible for this judicial power. This proposal is one of those who go to make the judge smart for us. We all understand very well that the President of Latvia must be at least 45 years old so that he is a smart president in his life so that he does not shame the country. I don't know why we don't respect our people. We believe that anyone who has heated his seat in court corridors can decide on him. And then we are surprised that when we make a survey of what citizens think about the judiciary, it turns out that we have the lowest confidence in the judiciary in the European Union. Well... Well... People, dear! Think about it once! Look at what needs to be done! We take care of our citizens! Now, we're not having a button-plugging machine! What the coalition treaty has decided... We press the button, no matter what! And the question I've been looking at once, which I already said, which I also put on family affairs... Now be people! Understand it! How can it be decided about the lives of other people who have never created themselves... themselves are failings in their family relationships! Like some of the good things we're sitting here... As some of the good guys sitting here have not raised their children themselves. Imagine that our colleague would be a judge. I'm sorry, horror! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U81	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, is there anything to add to this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U82	Yeah, thank you. I also draw attention to the proposed wording of Section 52(5) of the Law on actions against judges in matters of family affairs. We rejected the idea of specialising in this type of judge. But there's a demand for a judge to be in a marriage or a civil life. I really don't know what civil marriage means. There is in fact no such definition. And now... interest can also be pointed out that to the second reading, Mr. Nernozol had indicated at least nine years of experience of such a civil marriage... 10 years of experience in the life of civil marriage, but at the moment this lats has been reduced by one year. That's enough for nine years in the life of a civil marriage. The Commission calls for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U83	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal put forward by Member Nunozola. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 60, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U84	5. - also the proposal made by Member Valdis Kalnozols, whose fundamental character... As we know, judges are currently approved for life, except for the initial period of activity. In fact, he suggests that judges should be approved every seven years. This could probably be a very wide-ranging issue. We know that there are also the principles of the world's recognised independence of judges, which means that a judge must be elected yet with guarantees, which means that life-long election also includes this. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U85	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U86	Those people who are well aware that life is life and tomorrow or tomorrow will also be desirable to us... so, in a situation where we can go to court to be aware... that we are well understood in our daily life. If we take a man into work, but he has no responsibility for what he does... And actually, he can't be fired for life! Imagine you take any person into employment and he's not responsible for what he's doing, but he's going to be here forever, and you have to pay him money any case. Do you think that's reasonable? And how do you think this media news is coming up, which is lately that it and that judge have decided this way... He has no responsibility! He's there forever! And to prove that he has not correctly interpreted various interpretable laws... Well, colleagues, you understand! There is some motivation in these proposals: this judge really needs to decide a fair trial, not to refer to some friends, acquaintances or something else, and this court's decision should be in the interest of some. If he decides something in his interest, then next... I mean, it's okay... The next decision of the judges will not be confirmed... Well, a great request - well, get to know it! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Stop praying all the time!” ) Well, think of how you will take a person who has no responsibility but who will stay there forever! Is that reasonable?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U87	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U88	On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U89	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 52, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U90	6. - the proposal of the Member Nernozol to change the composition of the Judicial Qualification Board as well as the appointment procedure. That it is elected by the Judicial Conference and appointed by the Saeima. It is necessary to point out some very important things. First thing. On the proposal itself. Mr Nunozole is offering a secret vote. So we will soon have amendments to the Constitution on our agenda, and we will decide on the open election of the President of Latvia. That is the first thing I wanted to say. The other thing is that this is contrary to a number of studies. The Commission for the Improvement of the Judicial Environment has also worked on this issue, namely, with an idea of how to reduce the influence of executive and decision-making powers in the work of judges, including also judicial posts, career issues, and has indicated that it is necessary to reduce the role of both legislator and executive power. This proposal is contrary to the recommendations of the Commission for the Improvement of the Legal Environment.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U91	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U92	I call on Members to support this proposal. Why? Think about it: when conducting a public survey on the credibility of the judiciary, then the lowest in Europe! When we open newspapers and magazines and watch television - everyone criticises the judiciary. But when we start to ask the judges themselves, the representatives of the judiciary, how it is - very well, everything is fine! Even the political power that oversees this area says: everything is right! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Who is political power?” ) I therefore have a request - to be aware that we are the leaders of the people and the people have entrusted us with this duty - to defend the interests of the people in this country. Contact us that we build with our inert one new show-building political force, on which are based those people who are mostly against us who are ready to bring us down! ( Independence: “You! ”) ) I have a request - let us not do it! Well, let's not do it! Well, let's not build this lingering political force! We do so that we are the leaders of a nation that defends the interests of its own country and those of its own country!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U93	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U94	Yes, colleagues! We have just voted in favour of amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability. I hope that these amendments will not need to be applied in practice. But if you have to do it then, it will mean that the Judicial Qualification Board will have additional work and we will have to think about building the Judicial Qualification Board capacity, i.e. additional resources. And I hope that Mr Nunozola will support such proposals. However, the Commission did not support these proposals at present. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U95	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 3, against - 59, refraining from - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U96	7. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, who has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U97	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U98	8. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U100	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law Amending the Law on Judicial Power, third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U101	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Compensation for Victims”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U102	Colleagues! No proposal was received by the Commission for this draft law. I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U103	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Compensation for Victims”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Provided Legal Assistance”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U104	Dear colleagues, The Commission has received three proposals for this draft law. All these are the proposals of the Legal Bureau. 1. is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U106	Two more. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U108	And 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U110	I recall that these amendments provide for the provision of legal aid in the Constitutional Court proceedings, which is an innovation. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U111	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Provided Legal Assistance” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U112	Hello, colleagues! The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs has worked closely on this draft law submitted by our fellow Members Schnore, Kirštein, Cilinski, Kols, Dzintars and Dombrava. This question... Two meetings were devoted to the discussion of the draft law by the Commission. In its meetings, the Commission listened very carefully to all the stakeholders - both public organisations and ministries - but still requested... asked for this draft law to be examined by the National Trilateral Cooperation Council and asked for an opinion on this draft law to be prepared by a recognised expert, Kristīne Dupate, an associated professor of law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia and specialised in labour law in the context and aspects of European law. In fact, at the meeting of the National Trilateral Cooperation Council all the parties - the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Welfare, the Latvian Employers' Confederation, the Free Trade Union of Latvia - expressed... Well, he didn't change his point of view. Their views on this matter are constant, and these organisations... representatives of these institutions expressed their arguments at both the first meeting of the Commission and the second meeting of the Commission. They also expressed the same views during the meeting of the National Tripartite Cooperation Council. And very briefly, focused on this point of view or reasoning is as follows. According to the Ministry of Economics about this draft law: “Complementing Article 29 of the Labour Law with paragraphs 1.1 and 1.2 may have a negative impact on the flow of foreign direct investment in Latvia, as well as the resources of the ministries responsible for its implementation, including the establishment of professional lists, are disproportionate to the expected benefit.” And the second is the right to use the state language will be regulated by the State Language Law. The opinions of the Ministry of Welfare are also formative. First thesis - the regulation included in the Labour Law already provides for a sufficiently effective protection of an individual against different different attitudes and provides for a prohibition of direct and indirect discrimination during the establishment, existence and termination of employment relationships. The second phase - the issues referred to in the draft law are, in essence, issues of the state language policy area. The third phase - separate norms included in the draft law duplicate the regulation included in the Labour Law. Employers' Confederation of Latvia... I apologise for the next institution to mention the Ministry of Justice. The opinion of the Ministry of Justice at the meeting of the National Trilateral Cooperation Council was expressed by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Kronbergs, and this opinion is focused as follows: “I believe that the Council has supported the continuation of Latvian linguistic discrimination on the labour market in Latvia and strongly separates it from the decision of the Council.” The Employers' Confederation of Latvia considers the proposals of the National Association to be disproportionate and calls for them not to be supported. The Free Trade Union of Latvia believes that the current regulation is sufficiently detailed and provides proportionate requirements for the use of the state language. The proposed version is not actually feasible in life, because it is not understandable how the employee, when performing his duties, will be able to clarify the fact of citizenship of another person or the fact that this person has received a residence permit in Latvia. And two themes from Kristīne Dupate's opinion, which in itself is longer, of course, and which contains a more detailed analysis of the relevant regulation of the European Union. The first of these two themes is as follows: a draft law from the point of view of European Union law could be considered to be directly discriminatory on the grounds of ethnic origin. The second is: the current legal framework fully provides protection in cases where the requirements of a language are unfounded. The Commission, at its second meeting, did not therefore support this draft law. The Saeima Bureau was also informed about this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U113	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U114	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, First of all, why such an amendment of the law is necessary. First of all, they are necessary because in the working environment of Latvia they do not work what is written in the Latvian Constitution, namely that in Latvia the state language is one - the Latvian language. In reality, there is still two-lingualism, which was introduced in Latvia during the occupation of the USSR. In my hands is a study by the Faculty of Social and Political Studies of the University of Latvia, which analyses in detail and concludes that two-lingualism exists also in the working environment and that representatives of minorities in the working environment in Latvia are mostly communicated not in Latvian but in Russian, and that they also communicate with their Latvian colleagues in Russian. As a result, the knowledge of foreign languages is demanded by the representatives of professions that have nothing to do with foreign countries or foreigners, because in Russian it is planned to speak to Latvian citizens. Each of you can open a job ad section of SS.lv, even the largest advertising portal in Latvia, and find that employers there require Russian knowledge of almost all professions in Latvia. I'll quote here in turn, by alphabet, which requires knowledge of Russian. I mean, a wearer, a agronomist, a climber, a plasterer, a caretaker, a guard, an unlocker... More Russian is also used for a car-locker, a truck driver, an electrician, a car colorer, a car-washer, a car mechanic, and a car-scarter. And it's just the letter "a" - the very beginning of the list. All of them are asked to know Russian in Latvia. Is that normal? I don't think so. In addition to post an advert “SS.lv” in the section of the advert... there cannot in any way accidentally appear language knowledge. There employers consciously, with full responsibility, indicate that they need everyone to know Russian. This is the reality in Latvia. In fact, there is complete multilingualism and even the dominantness of Russian in certain areas. There is no wonder that teachers in Russian schools, i.e. intelligence, do not know the Latvian language, as we are now hearing it in the context of educational reform. Because for what do they know? They never needed it! As a result, they are used to the fact that Latvians always speak Russian, and apparently want this order to continue. But I call on you, my fellow Members, to put an end to this order and to support the draft law that we are proposing, which prevents employers, as I have already mentioned, from asking for foreign language knowledge without foundation. Moreover, not only Russian, but also other foreign languages. But now... By opening the job advertisement section, of course, we see that most of the language is, naturally, an unjustified request for Russian. Those who do not speak Russian - and there are many of them, especially among our young people - can no longer actually get any work even in Latvia, especially in Riga, are forced to leave and look for work elsewhere where they do not need Russian. In my opinion, this is a catastrophic situation that should definitely be changed so that the labour market of Latvia is not abandoned by young and capable workers. Now what the representatives of the Commission have mentioned here, namely the practical implementation of the proposed rules. In particular, how to exercise employees' right to communicate with Latvian citizens only in Latvian. How will it be determined who is Latvian and who is not? The worker will not have to determine this if the work involves foreign and foreign workers - the foreign language requirements will then be agreed on in the employment contract. This will apply to work at hotels, stations, airports and so on. For all the others who communicate with the Latvian population in the course of their work, the foreign language skills can not be included in the working agreement... that all these disengagers, butchers, and so forth, for example, have no reason to know Russian. If we accept it, it will not be possible to make it into a contract of employment by law. And so, in doing their work, people will be free to speak only the language of the country, without fear that they are wrong or wrong. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U115	Thank you. The period of debate on the draft law at first reading is 15 minutes. Mr. Orlov, will you have ten? We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U116	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On this point too, the Group has maintained its view, which was supported by the committee responsible. We believe that our entrepreneurs are not enemies of the state... and their claims are excessive. And this is not the first time we're looking at this in the commission. Our social partners always argue that the existing regulation completely prohibits discrimination against workers on grounds of nationality, language or otherwise. Consequently, Members of the Group will vote in the same way as their representatives on the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U117	Thank you. Mr. Dombrava, will you have enough for nine minutes? Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U118	Dear Saeima! On this point, I would like to quote two letters. Only two of the people living outside Latvia, for whom these unfounded foreign language requirements have been the reason why they have left Latvia. One of them is Kristaps Krankell, who currently lives in the United Kingdom. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Morozov: “They don’t need a language there – a foreign language? And they don’t need English there?” ) I will quote his letter: “Four years ago I was matured to return to Latvia after at least five years abroad. When looking for work in Riga, I immediately realized that it would not be simply because of language problems. I don't speak Russian at all and understand a few words. Even though my parents who have already left me come from Russia and Belarus, who accepted Latvia as their own language, culture and so on. Thanks to them, I too have this Latvian spirit and thinking, as well as respect for the country. But I did not give up my hands and applied for various works in Riga. There were works where I was sufficiently qualified and even invited to the interview, but while they understood during the conversation that I did not have Russian, because the work was partly related to customer service, the work was refused. All right, with us today's geopolitical situation, this is understandable, but not acceptable. There were also times when I found a job that was not related in any way to customer service, but because Russian colleagues may have problems communicating with me, this work was also welcomed. Finally, after a long search, I found a job, and only because of good English knowledge accepted me to work. Unfortunately, this work had to be left to me, because my colleagues, when I understood very well that I did not understand Russian, used to communicate with me exactly in Russian with all the unacceptable expressions that I had in my face as a Latvian. So today I'm back in England, but I've never left the idea of going back to our country, and I know that day will come. That is why I wish you to fight for Latvian as the only Latvian language in Latvia, which is treated with respect by the people of the country and its guests.” A second letter from Cynthia Zemziurga, who currently lives in Germany. ‘ I would like to share my personal experience with me in order to make a personal decision in favour of a foreign country. I have been living outside Latvia for three years now. The reason for leaving was that I couldn’t find a job, but the mountains of debt grew, and although I had all the knowledge of what I wanted and could do, most of the problem was Russian than most young people. In any place where you were looking for a job, you needed Russian. Therefore, the refusals followed one by the other. Of course, there was an opportunity to work in supermarkets, but this work did not seem appropriate to me. My mother first came to Germany to work, and now I too. Here, too, it is possible to learn at a higher level than in Latvia. The second is that I already have a family, so we no longer plan to return. Not to mention yourself, I hope there will also be those who will return. But I no longer see the future for myself in my own country.” So that such stories and similar stories should not be heard from our compatriots, who, because of the requirements of unwarranted foreign language skills, are being pushed out of the labour market in a situation where many entrepreneurs prevent labour shortages, I call for support for these amendments to the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U119	Would you have had a five-minute debate, Mrs Chigan? The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U120	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The knowledge of any language is an enormous wealth and, of course, the knowledge of this language can be strengthened by its use. Unfortunately, very often, especially in our capital, we are in a situation where people whose mother tongue is Russian but who speak great Latvian do not communicate publicly in Latvian, because it is very convenient for them to continue using Russian, because everyone will immediately switch to Russian. I think that very desirable and necessary situations are those where people, when they hear that a person speaks Latvian very well, also stop at the Latvian language and continue to speak in that language. Dear colleagues, There are enough professions, including in the service sector, where knowledge of Russian is not needed, so requirements for them are disproportionate and unnecessary. In the Unity Group we have agreed that we will support these proposals because, unfortunately, very often, especially among young people looking for jobs in the service sector, where there is contact with clients, situations arise that it is young people from Russian-owned families who have graduated from minority schools and speak very well in both Latvian and their native Russian who have much greater advantage than young people from other regions of Latvia, where they have heard little Russian and who have perhaps five excellent languages in other countries of the European Union, but they do not qualify for these works because of the requirements of the Russian language. Colleagues! These rules are proportionate, necessary, and I think that we will all benefit from the fact that more and more people will communicate in our beautiful Latvian language. THE UNITED KINGDOM will support these amendments. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U121	Thank you. Mr. Leenis, I have to ask: are you going to have two minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “Tri!” ) So after a break. The debate is continuing after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the announcement to the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U122	In the Red Hall, the Fraction Council meets with the Saeima Bureau. I ask all the leaders of the political groups to go to the hall! I also ask Janis Vacāns, Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U123	Colleagues! It is now time for a very important statement. This summer our colleagues Jānis Dombrava (Applause) celebrated the round and semi-circle anniversary. , Lolita Čigāne (Applause) , Imants Debtor (Applause) , Aleksandr Kirštein (Applause) and Einars Cilinskis (Applause) . Thank you. Name Gunārs Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U124	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Boriss Cilevičs, Ints Dālderis, Artuss Kaimiņš, Sergejs Potapkins, Jānis Trupovnieks, Jānis Urbanovičs and Ivars Zarins... There's a wand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U125	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U126	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, first reading. We are continuing the debate. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U127	Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! How long has Latvia regained its independence? Will you tell me? I think we're 27 years old, right? ( Interface: “28.) 28, good. But what are those forces, those underground forces that make us still talk to our minority, our biggest minority, Russian? Can anyone tell me? Where else is this happening in the world? Now I'm going to tell you a big secret. It'll be like a bomb explosion in this hall! Listen to me! I came back in September... No, in the summer of 1991 I experienced a guy. ( Internouncing call.) And since then I have spoken only Latvian with Russians in Latvia! And nothing bad has happened to me! ( Milestones.) That's it! So why don't you do that? Why do you not support our young people who want to speak Latvian rather than Russian in shops? Tell me! ( Milestones.) It turns out that Russians know Latvian, but no, we stick to the undervalue complex of the Soviet Union, that Russians must speak only Russian. ( Milestones.) Listen to what I'm most ashamed of, and I'm still going through it. When I went through the Vērmanes Garden, one girl came to me and in Russian asked me how much the clock was. I said, “Daughten, why do you ask me in Russian?” And I saw her guard. And I was ashamed, because that's what her mom does and so her father does - speak Russian to strangers first. And I was very ashamed because I felt that her feelings were offended. If we have created such an idea for our children, then in the future it will already enter our DNA, that our children will speak Russian only with Russians in Latvia. It'll be in the blood already. Will we get rid of it once? Now look at what's going on in the stores! Our brave youth, who has not gone to England, also answers in Latvian. And nothing happens to them. And something in our Russian minority has been clicked - yes, yes, yes, Latvia still has independence, this is no longer the Soviet Union. And they switch to Latvian. But how many are there? Will we support them, WHY, will we not support them, WHY, which is about Latvian? Once you wanted to introduce Russian as the second official language. A goat's leg. ( Milestones.) What, what? I voted against! You voted in favour. So please get it. We're the oldest generation, and let's give it now... Let's break the magic circle that we've inherited since the time of occupation! Let's be normal! And I'll end with one very interesting case. The apartment house was a cooperative meeting. And he said, then you have to speak in Latvian. But Latvians are Latvians! - got up in the feet, "What about it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have Russians here, we have to speak Russian!” And those who said that we should speak Latvian were from exile, by the way. And, you know what happened? “But if you don’t speak Latvian, I will forget all the Latvian that I learned at school.” When will you start speaking Latvian? And they were nationally minded Latvians. What is it that we are doing so completely needlessly?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So we have to vote. We support the law that tells us that Latvian is also a language and a point!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U128	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U129	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I call for support for this draft law, while, of course, understanding the opponents as well, disproved. Yes, Mr Leiens spoke here about this level of life, where we need to show a strong commitment. I completely agree. But I think that's not enough. Here, however, there is also a need for regulation of the law. And maybe it would remotely compare this contradiction... There is one major, serious contradiction, the problem: we want to achieve the prosperity of Luxembourg, perhaps with a monolingual policy, with our national policy, or even with what is written in our Constitution. This illusion is likely to free them from two different ways, and something will have to be sacrificed. Because we hear about both Luxembourg and Switzerland, how good, equal, there live three and even four languages. Well, who's had even a little contact with Luxembourg... you know that there is no equality of languages, although it is preached. Because market forces determine everything. Yes, Luxembourg may be making very good use of this large neighbouring market. And it is wise to do so if the relationship is good. And I totally agree... I think everyone here agrees with the principle of having to know the languages - the more, the better. Perhaps in our geographical situation good relations and good market development also Russian should be one of the first foreign languages to be known. One foreign minister said that Latvian has a small market value. Yes, if we are from market categories, I completely agree. These are the market principles. And I well understand that Russian should also be known from the service point of view. We say to the buyer, the customer is always right and he has to be as natural as possible. Yes, I do. From the point of view of democracy, all this should be supported, too. But you can't put your whole life under market law! The country is not a market from morning to night. And looking at our preamble to the Constitution or at the Constitution as a whole, which we observe and move towards, and taking into account the historical conditions, also the demographic national conditions that have arisen here, we need to develop mechanisms for the protection of the Latvian language, the state language. Because, in any case, in an equally democratic situation, the big languages will be written out in numerically small languages. These mechanisms of protection may look like a provincial one, sometimes even after a limited tumult - we will not let that happen! That is why I am calling for this draft law to be directed and for a balanced language policy to be developed with great care by national self-esteem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U130	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U131	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I am also from Members working in the Commission for Social and Labour, and I have listened to all the opinions referred to here, including the Ombudsman's opinion not mentioned by Mrs Šimfa, which pointed out that this problem exists for young Latvians who do not speak Russian and was also raised by the Ombudsman's representatives at the meeting of the Commission. The norm is, of course, general, but when it comes to any unjustified language requirement, we are well aware that the majority of this situation arises with regard to Russian. And why is that? See, English... Of course, if someone demands English knowledge, it is not good, but both Latvian and Russian young people actually have the same opportunities to learn English. And if anyone hasn't learned, it's just his own fault. If we talk about any other language that is not English or Russian, then no reasonable employer will unduly ask for such a language, because it is clear that the knowledge of these languages is so few that it will, of course, only be required where it is really necessary. On the other hand, with regard to Russian, one can, of course, partly agree with those considerations that were made before me by Mr Latkovsky and perhaps by other speakers - that the more languages he knows, the better. But, you see, it's like we've made them in a way that Russian is no longer a compulsory language, and many, perhaps most, Latvian young people don't know this language or know it at a bad level. And this has led to a disproportional situation on the labour market. In particular, young people who have studied in minority schools know Latvian quite well - much. Some do not know, but most of them know Latvian. In turn, Latvian young people do not know Russian. Of course, understanding the views of employers... Employers do not like any restrictions; it is quite logical; it is a legitimate view. However, taking into account the wider public interest and the need to reduce inequality, the rights of the Saeima and even the obligation to make an adjustment are the responsibility of the Saeima. I think that in reality Russian knowledge cannot also be required of those who are active in the service sector. They could be required, for example, for specific positions relating to translation or, let us say, the work of an actor in the Russian theatre, or for specific external economic links to cooperation with Russia, as is, of course, the knowledge of the relevant language in cooperation with any other country. But in the service field, I think it should not be required. Of course, the customer always wants the seller to learn different languages. I think many of you have passed through Poland, entered a petrol station or a small shop, and found that most sellers can say nothing in English or Russian and... Well, nothing! I think nothing has happened, usually everything has been bought. And, after all, this means that this language is also not compulsory in the service field. And then these are our proposals. I call for support. Thank you for the fact that many Members seem to have changed their previous view. Finally, I also call for this law to be adopted by this Saeima and not to vote in favour of a deadline for the submission of proposals that would, in fact, prevent it from being adopted technically. If you vote in favour of a long deadline for tabling proposals, this will in fact mean that your positive attitude to the law as a whole has been to some extent only an illusory. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U132	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U133	Dear colleagues, I would like to oppose Mr Latkovsky, because it is actually market law at the moment. We are discussing the Labour Act. I think we can find many other ways to strengthen our country's language, for example, by giving up the ban on non-citizens, repatriates to learn Latvian... That is what the Foreign Affairs Commission adopted yesterday... And I would also like to say that what I have heard from my colleague Mr. Leieniņa today... He's not the first time he's talking about situations, everyday situations, where he's teaching foreign children - in a shop or on the street - so I want to call Mr. Leieniņa no longer to do so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Leanny's intermediates. Impressions: “Provocatives! You need a split?Oh, no, no, no, no, “ Leave your children alone, please! Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U134	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U135	Dear colleagues, Language knowledge is a value. Knowledge of any language is a great asset that enriches us. At the same time, we say that you cannot force Rainy to love. Probably you can't force a person to want to learn languages or to know many languages - especially if it's not his mother tongue, his country, his land, his people's official language. A forward-looking employer who invests in his staff will find someone who knows, wants and can work, because he knows that what is needed for this job, he can learn - including language. When talking to colleagues in other countries, of course, much more to their own company, to their own country, will benefit their people from someone who will be able to talk freely without an interpreter. But at the same time, the Saeima rejected the amendments tabled by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia on the fact that the members of the Cabinet of Ministers would need language skills. Dear colleagues, If we say: Supreme State officials - members of the Cabinet of Ministers, Prime Minister, President of Latvia - do not need to know foreign languages so that they can communicate freely with their colleagues, then it is even less necessary to do so in service or in any other field where they do not need to communicate with Heads of State. That is why, by calling on everyone to learn languages, I will nevertheless support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U136	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U137	Madam President, Dear Members, Colleagues! We've been fighting it for 27 years... with windmills... And where's the result? No result! As we concluded in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science when examining the Law on Education, we lack Latvian language teachers, not to mention physics, chemistry and other subjects. Why, in 27 years... Is that so? We've spent time... I don't know, at least one hundred million over these years for an integration process that doesn't go. If this situation is not favourable in Latvia, if politicians are always stunning one nation or other nation, if the statements - especially before the elections! - about the language, about the Russians, too... So... Well, it doesn't go to the right, and there will be no result! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolish intermediate call.) What Mr. Leenis... live here since 1991, then we also need to learn a Russian sentence to answer that girl as the clock is. Maybe she is a tourist who has come from Russia or Ukraine and asks: How long is it? But today, on a break at the Freedom Monument, I saw... What did I see at the Freedom Monument? That's where the swings are. These are just one plastic board, and the kids are swinging there. And what language do you think are the instructions for using its swings? Don't think it's Russian! Go, see what happens on the streets and shops of Latvia, what language you use! Maybe it's meant, of course, for them, as Dombrava said... that those people left and they want to come, and to swing at the Freedom Monument in swings... and so they understand... They already have their first or second mother tongue... Maybe, yeah... But then we don't have to fight with one language! Then we need to fight with all those languages! Smart people already learn Chinese in our Latvian schools. Why? Because this is also the future. They understand that business will be linked to that big country. But I will show you, Madam President of the Saeima, what language is the inscription at the Freedom Monument! So I call you not to fight for it! The business process is the business process. There is always a common language in the business - the one in which the business works.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U138	The name to Member Ivars Zarins... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Klementjevs, showing information on the phone: “No Russian!” ) Name of Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U139	Good afternoon, everybody! I understand that the time of the pre-election - in the Saeima without populism and without clown... And that's... Dear National Union! Colleagues! Today you're acting like a clown! Do you yourself understand what you will achieve with this proposal?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, First of all, what will you achieve with this proposal? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Read the Annotation!” ) You do, think with these... Is that so? Firstly, how do you intend to implement these restrictions? If you really feel that entrepreneurs will take them into account, what do you think will be their next step? You have not protected Latvians with this. On the contrary! You've made these businessmen... they simply instead of Latvian, if they can't ask for Russian knowledge, they'll just hire Russian. That's it! The Latvians will be in the second... They will look first and foremost at the nationality of this man. Because for them it will be important whether the employee has Russian knowledge. What you will achieve now with your law - you will discriminate against Latvians, reduce their chances of getting a normal job here, because the entrepreneur... if it is important for the employee to know the Russian language, then he will choose a Russian-language person who really knows the Russian language. And why do you need such proposals at all? Why is this your hypocritical attitude, this concern about Latvian? In fact, you don't care about Latvians, you don't care about Latvians. What you care about is that you care about Latvians being as silly as possible, limited to being as competitive as possible, at risk in your own country, and so there is a reason why powerful defenders like you are needed. You're actually... ( Insight: “You lie! ” ) actually treat Latvians in the same way as North America in the past, the colonizers acted against the Indians: they also provided an opportunity for the Indians to live in their ethnic, right environment, collecting them in reserves and making them pitiful. This is what you are trying to do, because you need such Latvians, because only then will you be needed here, there will be some political point for your existence; then you will be able to play this circus, because there will be insulted, poor ones that need to be defended. Knowledge of languages is a matter of principle. And that's what makes our nations as competitive as possible. And if we have this opportunity to learn another language, to learn it in real life, then it will increase our competitiveness and give us an advantage already globally. It should be used. You're on the opposite road. You want to make Latvian weak, frightened and abyssed in your own country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “The Minister can tell you what about education in Russian schools and Latvian schools! Who will go to learn a foreign language?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U140	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U141	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! If someone has not studied the substance of the amendment to the law (Interdependence.) then you can focus on what Mr Zarins says, because I think Mr Zarins' panic is a good sign that these amendments should be supported. (Applause) But if you're talking about the substance, it's clear that now I'm not going to try to convince you, it's not worth it, and it's not useful. The rest of us have, at least now, expressed our support for the specific amendments. I wish that we move from words to actions. And this work can only be done in one way - do it during this Saeima. Therefore, please let us be consistent to the end: let us set a maximum short deadline for the submission of proposals. Let the deadline for the submission of proposals be five days! Otherwise, if we set a deadline for tabling proposals in such a way that this Saeima cannot do so... ( Insight: ‘ Are you afraid? ’) ) Let us not deceive anyone! Let us not deceive. It is a way to look well before the elections in the eyes of the people and in reality to hand over this work to the next Saeima, where, as we know, this will happen exactly as it has been so far. I therefore call not only for this draft law to be supported, but also for as short a deadline as possible for the submission of proposals and for it to be shown whether this support is true or just pre-election support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U142	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U143	Dear colleagues, Listening to this hot and passionate debate, three conclusions come to mind. The first conclusion is that, quite miraculously, in the pre-election period, when we talk about improvements to the Labour Law, we are not talking at all about working conditions, employment contracts, wages or safety at work. We're talking about other things. We are not talking about the position of the worker and the employer in this case. All this is secondary to us. The second conclusion is as follows: It is a great pity that here the least is talking about preserving, developing and improving the use of Latvian language in everyday life. Here it is about fighting against the influence of the Russian language in Latvian... In the Latvian environment. And the third conclusion: unfortunately, if we cannot show voters anything else, we show them the tongue. I'm sorry. I call for this draft law not to be supported. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U144	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U145	Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen, I would simply ask you to hear a warning from Ivars Zarins about possible risks. You see, a businessman will find a thousand and one way not to recruit someone he or she does not want to recruit. And so the filter, which is now laid down in the law, will actually make this work easier. That is, divide everyone, not by language knowledge, but by surnames, by ethnic origin. This will be particularly clear in the regions of Latvia, where there are indeed very many people who speak Russian at home. It is not Kuldīga, it is not Madona, but Latgale, Riga, Ventspils and the largest cities of Latvia. This divided life, existence and use of languages will therefore be expressed even more sharply. We are opposed to such a division among nations, and I do not think that this amendment, this draft law, will contribute to bringing our societies together. Therefore, I would just ask you to think seriously once again in order not to make a bear service for young Latvians who are now looking for a job. This is about something else. Create opportunities for both ethnic Latvians and ethnic Russians and Russian-speaking fellow citizens to use both languages in their community, as called for by Mr. Leijonis, freely and without suspicion, adventures and prejudices. And that's the main thing. But this particular “fracture ” will harm our lives, not improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U146	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur have anything to add on behalf of the Commission? So it's not. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 20, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals. Please turn on the microphone for Edvin Schnore!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U147	Deadline for submission of proposals - 11 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U148	So five days, 11 September this year. Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 September of this year. Thank you. On the agenda - draft law on “Amendments to the Law on National Security”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U149	Good morning, colleagues! Second reading: Amendments to the National Security Law. Proposal 1 is Karl Sergeant's proposal for a... Airsoft units.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U150	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U151	I must say straight away that this proposal has been made after consultation with the Security Police, because the situation in a country with Airsoft units is far from simple. Who does not know, let me explain that Airsoft is a military game involving people dressed in suit of an army model who use copies of combat weapons and shoot each other with plastic balls. Unfortunately, part of such units are simply simulating situations and training capabilities that are typical of the army or the specialities in their games. And it is no secret that individual members of these units are disloyal to Latvia. Therefore, it is not certain that these acquired skills are not directed against the state at some point or, let us say, at an X hour. The ideology in these separate units is also obvious, very pro-Russian, and they are quite hidden on the Internet as well. The most well-known is Vostok, who has taken his name from the combat unit that fought on the side of Donbass separatists at the famous airport in Donecka. There is also an entity called the ‘Gerivij lūdi’ because, as we remember, Russian propaganda has named the troops used during the occupation of Crimea. There are entities that have directly copied their symbol from the various Russian specic units. At the Airsoft Forum, which, let us say, still exists, where the exchange of views is taking place, you can find both the calls for war in Donbass and the attempts to conquer, for example, Estonia. We also remember that, relatively recently, the Security Police detained a number of Airsoft specialists from Russia who had contacts with the services and who were invited here in Latvia to organise a competition. By the way, Vostok has, for a short time, become international, and its branches are already located in Eastern Europe, such as Serbia. Well, if someone has doubts about what I'm saying, just type in Google's search for the words " Airsoft", "Vostok", and you'll find all this information without any particular difficulty, including photos. And so on. Since I reject any doubts about the fact that this proposal is intended to combat absolutely all those who want to play war, even children in some form of Laser Tag; it is aimed solely at ensuring that security authorities are able to control and restrict the training of state-loved units for real combat activities. After all, those who want to have a good sense of feeling can join Earth's watch calmly and replace game weapons with real ones, because the Earthguard is now receiving a very large amount of state support and there is every chance to expand. So I ask you to support this proposal. ( Internouncing call.) The Commission supported, of course.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U152	I closed the debate. The proposal is supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U153	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U155	3. - Schnore's proposal. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U157	4. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U158	Dear colleagues, I have to say that this proposal cannot be put to the vote, as proposal 3 has been supported. But the debate on this proposal is, of course, possible. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U159	Dear colleagues, I will explain the substance of my proposal and, at the same time, I will also tell you about the rest of the proposals 6 and 7 and, at the same time, I will ask for a vote on the proposals 6 and 7. I would not have tabled these proposals if the draft law had not affected the rights of all Latvian citizens. If the Saeima obliges a person to comply with certain rules, then a person must understand what responsibilities are there. As we know, only living people can defend the country. Therefore, the primary threat to the country is to take care of the lives of all people. Since the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... As the Ministry of Defence has stated in its information report of 23 August that there is no such exclusive possibility of ensuring the protection of all citizens of the country during the first hours or even days of the crisis or war, it can be concluded that the obligation of the State to protect its population is not fulfilled: to ensure the possibility of protecting their lives by sheltering their lives in bunkers or bomb shelters. How can we, colleagues, oblige Latvian citizens to comply with the legal instructions, including those of the allies, if the government is only now beginning to identify its capacity in civil protection? Such a strange distrust for the people of Latvia. And it's obvious that bold and selfless people will go and fight on their shoulders. But you can't establish security by law! Therefore, cooperation between NMS and natural persons in the field of national defence must be voluntary and based on the principle of mutual trust. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Exactly! Earthguard!’ ) A nation of importance to its country will go to the barricades without reading the articles of the law. I therefore call for my proposal to be supported: to involve citizens in national defence on a voluntary basis. To be obliged not to give priority to the instructions of (including - NATO) allies, but to take care of the lives of themselves and their relatives first and not to cooperate with the occupation power, unless it endangers not only the fundamental rights of the individual but also the individual's relatives. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U160	Thank you, Mrs Stepanenko. Consequently, this proposal cannot be put to the vote. About 6 and 7. - are you asking for a vote? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Stepanenko: “Yes!” ) Yes, thank you. Therefore, a vote on 6 and 7 has been requested. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U161	In the Commission, we also, of course, listened to Mrs Stepanenko. And, unfortunately, we have already supported a number of proposals at first reading in these amendments to the law. And then it must be said: history shows that, in situations where the enemy invade the country, its population is organically divided into four large groups: one that has such opportunities simply escapes; the other, while it does not affect them, pretends that nothing has happened and tries not to interfere anywhere; the third is supporting the occupying forces and is ready to cooperate; the fourth are those who, both with arms and with non-violent resistance, defend their homeland and resist the power of occupation. These amendments to the law, together, are intended to ensure that the first three groups are as small as possible and the last, fourth and fourth groups are as large as possible. And this law shall not force them to fight against them that cannot physically. For let us remember that during the occupation of Crimea, we saw how the “decent people” went to occupy Ukrainian troops, moving forward the civilian population, including women and children. Of course, such a situation is unimaginable in Latvia. This law allows those members of society who are aware that they can do so without jeopardising their family members. And, of course, we are all aware here, and we hope that these articles of the law will never be activated, but we must be prepared for any situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U162	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add to the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U163	Okay. 5. is the motion of the Member Schnore...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U164	No, no, so there's nothing to add about 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U165	No, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U166	Then let's keep going. Proposal No 5
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U167	5. - The motion by the Saeima Member Schnore. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U169	6. - The motion of Saeima Member Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U170	The Member asked for a vote on this. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The motion submitted by Saeima Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 56, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U171	7. - The motion of Saeima Member Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U172	Mrs Stepanenko also asked for a vote on this. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -16, for -59, for -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U173	8 / 8 - The motion by the Saeima Member Schnore. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U175	And nine. - The motion by the Saeima Member Schnore. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U177	Therefore, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U178	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U179	11 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U180	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U181	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Honourable Members! We see the draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance", which contains quite a number of technical proposals, including those that are not related. And the main ones are related to reducing administrative burdens. The aim of the draft law is to establish that, from 1 January 2021, the time limit for making compulsory contributions to state social insurance is the 23rd of the month, but the time limit for submitting the employer's report on compulsory contributions is the 17th of the month. There are also a number of other administrative burden reduction measures. The draft law also provides for pension and unemployment insurance for persons whose spouse, as a prosecutor, carries out the representation of the Republic of Latvia in Eurojust and who reside in the respective foreign country as spouses of this representative. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U182	Head of the sitting. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U183	On behalf of the Commission, I also ask you to fix five days, 11 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U184	Thank you. There are no other proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U185	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to Labour Law” (No. 1277/Lp12). The amendments were prepared and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Draft law “Amendments to Labour Law” is designed to improve the regulation of labour relations. And at the meeting of the National Trilateral Cooperation Council, an agreement was reached between the social partners on the regulations contained in a number of articles, which regulates the procedure for making comments and rebuttals and contesting. The Social and Labour Commission examined the draft law at first reading and supported it. Request to support it in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U186	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to Labour Law” (No. 1277/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U187	11 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U188	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Recording of Real Estate in Land Registers”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U189	For the second reading, the Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Recording of Real Estate in Land Registers””. Eight proposals were reviewed. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U191	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U193	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U195	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U197	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U198	Supported partly by including...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U199	Partly supported and included in proposal 6. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U200	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U201	6. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U203	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U205	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U206	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U207	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U208	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Recording Real Estate in Land Registers” at Second Reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U209	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 24 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U210	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 24 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U211	Dear colleagues, I would remind you that this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Law is related to the implementation of several directives in the regulation of the Criminal Procedure Law of Latvia. A total of 61 proposals have been received for the second reading. They were examined and presented by the Legal Commission. 1. is the motion of Member Curra. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U213	2. is a proposal from the Legal Commission. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U215	3. - Member Curra's proposal. Partly supported, incorporated into proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U216	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U217	4. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U219	5. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U220	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U221	6. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U223	7. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U225	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U227	9. - Member Curra's proposal. Supported in part, incorporated in proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U228	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U229	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U231	11. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U233	12. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U234	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U235	13. - Member Curra's proposal. Partly supported, incorporated in proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U236	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U237	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U239	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U241	16. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U243	17. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U245	18. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U247	19. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U248	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U249	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U250	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U251	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U253	22. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U255	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Curra's proposal. Some support has been given, as part of proposal 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U256	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U257	24. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U259	25. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U260	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U261	26. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U262	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U263	27. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U265	Also 28. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U267	29. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U269	30. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U271	31. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U273	32. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U275	33. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U277	34. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U279	35. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Partly supported, incorporated in proposal 36.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U280	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U281	36. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U283	37. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U284	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U285	38. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U287	39. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U289	40. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U291	The 41st is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice. And supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U293	42. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U295	Also 43. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U297	44. - Member Curra's proposal. Supported in part, incorporated in proposal 45.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U298	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U299	45. - The legal commission's proposal. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U301	46. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U303	47. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U305	48. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U307	49. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U309	50. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U311	51. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U313	52 is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U314	Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U315	I'm sorry! Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U316	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U317	53. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U319	54. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U321	55. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U323	56. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U324	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U325	Also 57. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U326	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U327	Also 58. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U328	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U329	59, too. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U330	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U331	60 too. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U332	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U333	61, on the other hand, is a proposal from the Legal Commission, which is, of course, supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U335	I call on my colleagues to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U336	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U337	The request to submit proposals by 11 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U338	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U339	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! We see in second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Education Act”. 39 proposals were received for the second reading. I would like to recall what these amendments provide for. They provide for the establishment of new criteria and procedures for the implementation of non-distributive and distance learning programmes; they also deal with minimum standards... the maximum number of pupils allowed in secondary school classes or groups of classes; the procedure for establishing and closing educational institutions of public interest; the procedure for obtaining education for learners with hearing impairments; the funding procedure from municipal budgets for the maintenance of private schools established by public benefit organisations or social entrepreneurs. Likewise, changes to Section 50 of the Education Law were made in compliance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. This concerns the right to work as educators for persons who have been punished. It is also about the adoption of education guidelines at the Saeima, and transitional provisions provide for deadlines for starting educational programmes (on competence-based content) in different groups of classes from 2020 onwards (this is what we have already defined in the General Education Act). And now we move on to the proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U341	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U343	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U345	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U347	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. ( Interface: “On 4? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U348	Proposal No 5 Proposal 5 has been supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal. Members want to have a debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U349	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Presidium! Dear colleagues, It is very good if someone succeeds in being in the right place at the right time, but unfortunately Minister Šadurski does not. ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Of all the ambitious reforms planned, it is, unfortunately, decided to postpone the year, the most important - the introduction of a competence approach and new learning approaches - to the content. And the reason we all know is that the Ministry is not with us and therefore called on the coalition to agree that we are moving this decision for a year. But it might also be that Shadurski does not want more quality education. In addition, madness! - it turns out that quality education is also important. But this time for what we will not support. I call for no support for the proposal concerning special education. Let me explain why. First, children with special needs are sensitive to the subject, there are too many other reforms that affect this special school area. Content reform, school network and integration, too. Secondly, schools with regular programmes are not really ready, they do not have the possibility to take children with special needs in the number they should be subject to this amendment of the law. Thirdly, if we are talking about special education programmes, it is unacceptable that special educational establishments, called "special boarding schools", will now be replaced by simple special schools, which, of course, many people associate with secondary schools that they perceived negatively. Already in 2012, when the Minister of Education and Science was Roberts Ķīlis, he invited municipalities and educational institutions to remove the word “special” from the title, which several educational institutions also did. At the moment, Shadurski once again is telling children to separate, especially those with special and special needs, according to current amendments, that they have some problems. This is not acceptable for parents, nor is it acceptable for non-governmental organisations working with these children. The name of the school should not be used in such a way that children are different! Yes, of course! Children are different, but this is not to be indicated by the name of the school... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U350	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U351	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I am a little surprised at Member Morozov's "intervention". Maybe I'm not in the right time and place... Maybe. But he is certainly not at the right time or in the right place this time, because this proposal, which he debated, is about the people with hearing impairments, which defines their ability to learn Latvian sign language, which is absolutely necessary for them. That's why, given that I'm 5 years old. - the proposal has been clarified by the Commission, please do not support this but support it. - the Commission's proposal. And in turn, I call Member Morozov a little bit, as he says, of my imagination to return to reality from the world. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U352	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U353	Yeah. I can only say that this proposal has been made by the organisation of parents for children with hearing impairment. So I will really ask you to support these proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U354	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Minister of Education and Science, Karlis Shadursky... ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U355	Partially... partly supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U356	... a proposal that the Minister called for not to support but to support proposal 6. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Noise in the hall.) Please vote mode! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Noise in the hall.) So, again. People must be in the hall... Members have not listened. The Minister for Education and Science called for proposal 5 not to be supported, but to support proposal 6. It's for all those who have lost their thread, and also... Please call again! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Karlis Shadursky! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 27, for - 31. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U357	So, colleagues, 6. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U359	7. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U361	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U362	Members want to have a debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U363	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Minister! Why did I really want to talk about this proposal? Because public interest education institutions have not been but are now being developed. How did this proposal come to us and come to us in the Commission? On June 19, it appeared at second reading. No one really learned to explain what it says. Some common project between us and Norway, where salaries must be covered by the Latvian side... The question as to how much it costs, Mr Shadursky replied that about EUR 100 000. Then rose representatives of the Ministry of Finance and said that there was no and no money. Now I... Yes, here we are talking about grabbing so that we can understand what's going on. Mr. Sergeant said: “I also got it.” That's very, very precise I can read. Institution of Public Interest Education... Well, there's nothing out there... There can be absolutely nothing that has been said about this issue. It's just on August 3rd... Priority requests of the Ministry of Education and Science for 2019. And then here the funding for teachers of public interest education institutions... These EUR 100 000 have already increased to EUR 202 000 515. So what is the arithmetical progression of this funding going to grow further? Well, in principle, it's not spoken, it's not explained. At first, the first time we were told... Well, what will be the centre of interest education here? It would be about four to six. And then, of course, called us five. You can three times mention where they will be. I think the first one should not be guessed, but everyone will say - Ventspils. And Valmiera, Rezekne, Daugavpils, Liepaja. So all the big cities. But we have 119 municipalities, and education of interests is needed throughout the country, not just at some specific points. Why are we once again lobbying some of the big cities that are already rich, that have a lot of money and that can develop their education? Maybe that more is needed in cities like Ludza, Livani, Talsi, Tukums, maybe also Salacgrīva, Rūjiena. Why is that right and not differently? Why are these chosen municipalities? I think that the Ministry of Education and Science definitely needs to come and explain specifically: 10, what it pays, what is the total cost of projects, how many years they are. Because when we talked about this issue, on 19th, no one learned anything. Of course, the opposition voted 'no', the 'yes' position, and that is why this issue is here. I'd like to know. I would like this to be explained more specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U364	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U365	Good afternoon! I'll try to explain, even though at the commission meeting... It should be said, though, that it was not for no one to explain, but for some to understand. I will try to make it very simple again. What is an educational institution of national interest? At the moment, we have two institutions that could qualify for this status. One is the ZINOO centre in Cēsis, the other is the Urda centre in Daibbe. Investing in the programme, which we are known as the Norwegian financial instrument, is aimed at interest education centres in Liepaja, Ventspils, Cesis and Daugavpils. And to get... The financial envelope of seven million comes from the Norwegian financial instrument, as well as from national co-financing - this is the construction of these centres. But the question is, how will the salaries of the educators working in these centres be financed? Of course, our initial calculations were a little preliminary, but now we see that in the four months of 2019 it should be 70 thousand euros, in 2020 215 thousand euros and 2021 and in the future about 225-226 thousand euros to provide the places for teachers who will work in these centres. Why are these centres as few as Mr. Krumins is concerned? It is impossible to invest enough in infrastructure to have such centres in every school. For us now, the system of education of interest is that one and the same children and young people participate in the training of them or other programmes throughout the school year and work with the interest educators employed in this programme. This will be a completely different system, because these centres will serve children and young people from all over the country, including Ludza, Livani, Talsi and other places mentioned by Mr Krūmiņa. To obtain the status of an educational centre for public interest interests, these programmes will have to be really necessary for all our children and young people across the country, they will have to be qualitatively strong and they will have to serve a certain annual flow of young people. This will be 30,000 young people throughout the year and will have to be young people from at least 10 municipalities. So if even one criterion is not met - either the quality of the programme, or the scope in terms of the number of municipalities, or the scope in terms of the number of visitors - it will not be possible to obtain this status. Given that it makes no sense to build a beautiful house and then, because of the lack of educators, not to get the maximum of what we can get... This additional new form of interest education is absolutely necessary. And when it comes to financial sources, it is true that we have presented these new policy initiatives in the Ministry of Finance - that is our high-level priority. Honourable Members! I know that maybe my request is naive. But let us not play the game of "position - opposition" on the issue of education because, unfortunately, children are the victims of our games - pupils, young people and our future. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U366	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U367	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Finally, the Minister admits that it is necessary, however, to listen to the opposition and to form together... We are always in favour of not having to debate the issue in the big room until all the opinions, questions and answers of the opposition have been resolved by the Commission... that this message would have already been eliminated by the Commission itself. Unfortunately, in the Commission Mr Šadurskis always stops with beautiful speeches, but there is no big point, so we do not have organised education in many areas. As regards the issue of education of interests... You understand, here's the question, how much it will cost the state... because it's not just the salaries and infrastructure of the educators, the so-called means of thinking for it to work with their young man... There will be those seven million that are being given... We're gonna have to keep these schools. Heat, energy, servicing staff... We asked the Commission: ‘How much will it cost?’ There is no answer to this question, as there is no such calculation. And the other. The Minister has not mentioned that we have centres of interest for children and young people. Not just science, but... I think that interests are also in art, culture, as well as in other areas. And I mean, while our country doesn't have a system in place in schools... For example, Preil Gymnasium has an extremely colossal body of physics and mathematics that deals with young people and introduces innovations to them after an hour, and they also deal with business issues with local producers. And that is actually the most correct approach. I can say with complete certainty that the child, who will live some 7 miles [7 km] from Ludza center, will simply not be transported to such a interest club. I'm sorry. And secondary schools are established, where all the best of all schools in the Republic are wiped out, they live here. I know one very good student in Dagda (I already mention this city for the second time), whose parents cannot provide him with training at Riga Technical University... in that high school... He would be entitled to study there, but he simply does not have the opportunity, because his parents are unable to support this student in Riga. And then there is also a minus that a new institution will certainly require some funds. Experience so far shows that we are setting up interest groups in so-called professional technical schools, in industry schools - music schools, art schools; there are also groups, although they are actually professional orientation schools. The money that is earmarked for the education of interests from the state budget goes to these groups. And general education schools are reducing opportunities for education of interests because local governments and the state do not have money. We are delighted that we have a beautiful song festival. However, the municipality and the school were unable to provide choral lessons for the boys' choir, who were preparing for the Cesis meeting; only one hour was given. We asked the director: "Why only one hour? Cannot prepare the program!’ And that choir really did not sing well. No money. And now we're... By not putting everything in place that already works for us, and not investing in it, not developing all children, not giving them the opportunity to operate in such groups, we are establishing new... And the Minister didn't say who was going to run those 10 schools. Let him tell you the truth about whom it is intended! Because those directors will need alternates, there will be a part of the training, and so on. Let us finally start talking, Minister, openly! We have always asked to do so! I very much invite you not to speak from the platform in half-words only, but to speak full sentences and openly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U368	Name of Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Shadurskis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U369	Honourable Members! Mr. Platoper! I will try to speak openly, but then please try to understand! These centres will be either municipal or private. Consequently, all maintenance costs fall on the founders’ shoulders by taking part in a competition for a Norwegian financial instrument. All municipalities have these financial calculations and the municipalities are very well aware of the financial burden they bear. They have voluntarily applied and competed for the possibility of obtaining this additional financing for the construction of the infrastructure. So maintenance expenditure is for municipalities if it is the centre of the municipality; administration - just the same way; support staff - the same way; restoration of materials - the same way. And in order to maintain the principle by introducing this new form, which we have mostly in the education system, that the founder maintains the institution, but the state pays teachers' salaries, we offer teachers' salaries to cover from the state budget to reduce... Well, let's just say, so that Ludza's child can go there, so that Ludza's high school doesn't have to pay for the entrance ticket, so that Ludza has to pay only for transport. And so if we provide these little places for educators in my amount, then all children will have these opportunities. This new form in no way competes with the education of existing interests... what you talked about and still. It is simply an additional form that all our children will be able to obtain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U370	Member's name is Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U371	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, I am very surprised this time by the opinion of the groups of the Association of the Regions of Latvia - and more specifically - opposition. The mind, what... does not want to allow our children to receive appropriate education for their own interests. We're taking it, and I... ( Milestones.) And I almost believe that one of you has taken your children to the Tartu Science Centre. Why do we now want no such educational centres in Latvia? ( Interface: “It’s already! ” ) is in Cēsis. Of course, there's Cesis... But why do we want it? I really can't understand, Mr. Krumine, the rest! Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U372	Member Arvīds Platoper, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U373	I will try to explain very briefly to Mrs Straujuma. I am not against children being educated. I'm not doing it and I'm not saying it here from the podium. I just point out that we think: because we now give them millions, yes, then we - uh and ah! But I think we can convince the Norwegians that we want to make the kids smarter in every school. We're unfortunately very clear... actually use this option... It's 27. ... For the 28th century, we spend very quickly; there is no point. And I really feel very sad that I have to try to convince all the time that absolutely all children have to create the same rights. I can tell you from my personal experience. The groups were also in the schools where I worked. But seven kilometers to bring them at 15.00... must be either the local government departments that bring that child or the parent. The parents work, and the child does not participate in that group. It's a reality! And we end by saying once that we think that Tartu is something! Tartu is already there, and I am very sorry that it is not in Riga in the 28th century, or it is not in Cesis... And I'm not against it... I would like to call once again on you to first of all not to create new structures where there will be directors, but at last simply to think about how to make this system available to all children.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U374	The name to Member Varis Krumins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U375	Say hello to everyone again. Mrs. Strautums, we need to listen! I did not say for a moment that these centres are not necessary. I simply asked for an explanation to the Minister so that he could tell him what, what, where and how. I do not like making such decisions and voting if I do not know what to vote on. You may be sitting in position and ruling all summer, working. The opposition is not working. It is not even called; it has nothing to explain. It's put in front: please! ( Milestones.) Then why do you draw conclusions before the vote takes place?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U376	Member Astrid Harjus.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U377	Dear Saeima! I did not think I would speak, but the previous speakers also called for their thoughts and conclusions. I also come from a small municipality, and we do not have this opportunity in every school, but our municipality - and I think every municipality - finds the means to bring their children to these great centres of interest. And by concentrating financial resources in these centres, these children will gain momentum and motivation to learn better, to work better. For example, we don’t have a swimming pool in Ape, but children are taken to the swimming pool. Cesis, Prieces. We also take children to Tartu, the Science Centre “AHHAA”. Such large centres of interest are essential, important and important in Latvia. And so I also call on money not to waste on all sides, but to concentrate on these big centres. For example, the Riga French Liqueur... If this money had been distributed to all schools by critique, then there would have been no pride and its great base today, with children starting on September 1 at the Riga French Lice. We must go to such quality centres.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U378	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U379	Colleagues! I understand, of course, that the fight of the opposition and of the position - that is the eternal size, especially towards the elections, but I think there is a need to pull the border somewhere where it should be serious. And I think that this limit should be drawn when we are very specific... non-politically talking about children's interests, how children are better. I think we need to understand what we are really talking about in this proposal. There is no alternative - to support many centres or to support some centres. The fact that we give money to everyone does not mean that in all these places there will be excellent centres and an excellent offer for children. This is about something else - to support it where this excellent offer has already come from, to make it as accessible as possible to children. That is the decision, it is the proposal. And I ask you to support it, too. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “This is your interpretation!” ) I can (interfaces.) agree, of course, that the Ministry should talk about these criteria, debate more openly, perhaps also discuss them in committee meetings. However, we, fellow Members, know ourselves how we sometimes have success at those commission meetings. But we should not be punished by a vote against children's interests! And I hope that none of those present plans to do so either. I call for support for the specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U380	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U381	Yeah, colleagues. Two things we heard in the Commission. These are the main points on this proposal. The first is that these four centres are thus established on a regional basis. They are already in principle established. And it is supported that children from Kurzeme should not go to Cesis or Cesis children - go to Daugavpils. Liepaja, Ventspils, Cesis and Daugavpils currently have four regional scientific centres to which children of these regions can drive and learn scientific skills (Interface: “Let’s drive!” ) (a.k.a. And the other thing. I would like to remind you once again that funding is in no way deducted from education of interest, which is currently supported by the state in general education schools, where municipalities also contribute. I therefore call for support for Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U382	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Education and Science, Karlis Shadursky! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Latkovsky: “Break! And that's the discussion!" ) The proposal is supported. (Applause) Dear colleagues, Before we move on to the examination of further draft laws, I have to say that Members of the Parliament have asked Hosam Abu Meri, Augusts Brigmanis, Gaidis Berzins, Ivars Zarins and Jānis Upenieks to continue the sitting of the Saeima until all items on the agenda have been examined without interruption. Do Members have objections? Members have reservations. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision taken - Saeima sitting is continued without interruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U383	9. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U384	Let us start a debate. The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U385	Honourable Members! We have had a lot of discussions lately about Latvian language constructions, about the use of links “and” and “or”. But in fact, I think it's all right with a sense of language and logic. After this debate, I think there is a very simple thing: by masking behind language structures in complicated sentences, by weakening the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers, to establish criteria in the education system. Because if we are talking about whether the Cabinet can determine the minimum number of students in a class and/or a group of classes, then I think it is very well understood here - our offer was that we set the minimum number of students in each class at secondary level. Well, basically in grade 10, given that in grades 11 and 12, relatively few young people come. But there is a possibility of a bilge at all stages of high school. The totals for the whole group of classes should therefore be set at 10 per cent below this limit. Well, for example, if in the cities of the republic we want to identify 22 students in grade 10 - so two sets of classes 22 x 6, which would be 132 - we take 10 percent off and get to the class group... 120... And in an attempt to replace the bundle “and” with “or” is very dependent on whether it makes sense from the sentence design. And a little bit about formal logic and Latvian. If the rebuttal sentence contains a swivel “or”, then it is in its own sense identical to the swivel statement of the swivel “and”. I'm sorry for a very simple example, but... I will also give a simple example to those Members who are currently watching their phones or otherwise playing. I'm sorry, childish. Dismisses from using a bundle “or”: “Ann and John will not have a wedding if Anna does not want to marry John or John does not want to marry Anna.” The same construction in the form of the claim: “Ann and Janis will have a wedding if Anna wants to marry John and John will want to marry Anna.” So where we limit that or other competence, it's logical to use the link "or" if we give an additional bonus in the form of a claim... When both criteria are met, logically we use the link “and”. However, this proposal from the Group of the Regions of Latvia and the next one, which is identical - Mr Morozov's proposal - is even worse. If the links “and” between “class” and “class group” in paragraph 41 of Article 14 are replaced by “or”, the Cabinet of Ministers shall not have the right to define these two criteria if the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to determine one or the other. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to define only one. Hence, there will be no softening of 10 percent! That's 22, 22, 22, that's it. And let's write that there must be two sets of classes. And another problem. If these proposals - Proposals 9 and 10 - are supported, then Article 14, paragraph 41 goes against paragraph 42, which once again concerns both criteria - both in the class and in the class group. Honourable Members! Given that the construction of the law is quite complicated, I do not invite you to make a decision today on hot feet. I do not invite you to vote in favour of Amendments 9 and 10. They are supported by the Commission. Let them stay that way at second reading! And I very much hope that we will have a productive and targeted discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, preparing the draft law for the third reading, where we will bring all linguistic and logical matters in the normal order. In particular, it should be noted that next Wednesday the Cabinet of Ministers will consider two regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers – one on quantitative and qualitative criteria in the secondary school stage and the other on the schedule of further increase of teachers' salaries. The government-building parties, participating in the trade union of Latvian education and science workers at this meeting, have agreed that these issues are inextricably linked. Thus, the principle is very simple - wages today, quality requirements come into force after two years. Because I think we can all agree and be fully in agreement that our secondary schools should be of high quality; that our secondary graduates should be able to study in their selected study programmes; that we need highly qualified workers with both secondary and vocational education and that in the future the welfare of our country is very much dependent on the quality of our education system. I do not call on us to vote in favour of these two proposals, but I call for us to consider very seriously that, at third reading, we need to lay a solid foundation so that we are not such a middle OECD country, but that we do what the Finns have done and go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U386	Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U387	Good afternoon, everyone! On 19 June, we, all 11 people on the Commission voted in favour, and the Commission also had an explanation of the Minister. He agreed that a swivel “or” was needed here. So it's like we've changed the whole Latvian language in three months. It seems to me that we are not spending much time. What then do your people do in that ministry if they don’t get the right law and do not get the right accents, put a point on “i” or under “k” to stay at the bottom of the comma in order to come out “ki”? ( Minister of Education and Science K. Šadurskis: “The Ministry cannot prevent silly proposals! ” ) If, because of this “and” and “or”, the promised salaries of educators have been delayed for a week (these 710 euros have been promised to all educators in Latvia), then... It's funny if this is the main reason you taught it in the press! If they are quality indicators, this can be discussed, but the press has written: the swivels “and” and “or” stop the increase in teachers’ salaries. Exactly, not differently. I think first of all that we need all these decisions and laws, and proposals in the Ministry to develop and bring a ready bill, and then to explain to us, all those who do not understand what is "and" and "or". Because it happens that we don't understand it here. Right? ( Minister of Education and Science K. Šadurskis: “It has not been written by the Ministry, my friend! ” ) Neither do you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U388	Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U389	Colleagues! If there is a combination of salaries and the number of students, then I'll talk about both things. On Tuesday, we all saw the seemingly funny news that the government did not decide to raise the teacher wage links due to the amendments to the rules. The regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which are now submitted by the Ministry of Education and Science to the Cabinet of Ministers, determine the minimum and maximum number of pupils, as well as the quality criteria related to receiving state funding for teachers of municipal schools. There are three groups. If the quality and quantity criteria are met by one hundred percent, the municipality shall receive a 100 per cent national target for teachers' salaries; if the quality or quantity indicators are not met, they shall be 50 per cent; if both are not met, the municipality shall bear the salaries of all teachers. I have a question: does Shadurski's lack of money to raise teachers' salaries mean that only a few will now be paid and the rest will be covered again by the municipalities? Secondly, the so-called figures. The rules have different requirements for large cities and Pierīga cities, for example, for a certain number of student classes and a total number of 10-12 classes, i.e. secondary schools. The law currently provides that the rules contain the word ‘or’. So either there is a minimum requirement for 10th grade or a minimum number of pupils in the whole of the secondary school. Of course, reservations are about small schools, border schools. Šadurskis has decided to change municipalities to some extent, by imposing a transitional provision of the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, that from September 2018 until September 2020 there will be smaller numbers in relation to the minimum number of pupils in the class, and with the word “or”... ‘total at secondary school’... then there will be the word “and”... That is not acceptable! It is even more unacceptable that literally before the 19th June, in the session of the Saeima’s Committee on Education, Culture and Science, Shadurski himself agreed to the use of the word “or”. And I'm not just saying that today. Obviously, the Minister has heard nothing about the principles of trust and the fulfillment of promises. And the most important thing. The Saeima has written in the Education Act that the Ministry was to adopt these regulations by August 31, but they were submitted to the government only on September 4. It shows once again that the Ministry is either unable to meet the requirements of the legislator, or it is not up to the legislator, as well as to schools - with all teachers and students! - because, paradoxically, all schools in Latvia must implement numerous reforms within a short time, but the Ministry itself does not even mean writing regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U390	Name of Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Shadurskis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U391	Honourable Members! Mr. Morozov! Well, I won't try to answer everything you have on the page written... I think it's not worth addressing you too, it's not your text... But I would like to explain to Members the quality requirements. And that's not because someone lacks money. This is why our high school has trained young people. The quality criterion is absolutely primary: if the school, secondary school, meets the quality criteria, then we do not look at the numerical criteria at all. It doesn't matter if the school is big or small. In turn, if secondary school does not meet the quality criteria, then depending on the numerical criteria, there are two possible regimes: all schools receive a warning in the first year; if the school meets the quantitative criteria and also does not meet the quality criteria in the second year, the state finances 50 per cent of the teacher's targeted grant; if the situation does not improve in the third year, the funding from the state budget will be reduced. But it's not a ban on this school. In this case, there are several options. The best thing is to improve quality. As soon as the quality improves, the funding is being restored. The second option is to transform this school from weak secondary school into a strong primary school. The third option is to fund the municipality from its own resources. If quality and quantity criteria are not met, then in the first year - warning, in the second year - funding falls. As soon as the school arranges for quality, the funding is renewed. The principle is extremely simple. Local governments are the founders of general education schools, which perform an educational function paid by the State. The State shall pay for the performance of the quality function. If someone orders a favor... If, for example, a suit is applied and a jacket has the buttons on its back and the flanges are not a jacket, but panties, and not where they could be, but where they would be, they will probably not pay the full price for such a job. And that is our principle of quality criteria. Now the number of quality criteria. They divide into two groups. One is what is assessed by the cyclical accreditation of schools. We have 19 criteria for the accreditation of schools. Five of the most important ones that affect the quality of education... we ask for them to be carried out at least at the ‘good’ level. No “excellent” is required, but “good” is enough; “satisfactory” is not enough. The second is the results of the central examinations. And the requirement is that the results of all compulsory central examinations should be above 40 per cent. Why 40 percent? If we look at the score on the 10 ball scale, from one to 10, then the four is the first positive mark. A fourman on the 10 ball scale accounts for 40 percent. If we ask for the average result of the exam to be 40 percent, then, honourable Members, at a normal distribution, it means that at least half of the 12th grade pupils, school graduates, must be successful. The party must be successful. When I discussed this in the government, I saw a surprise in the eyes of my fellow ministers, why this demand is so low. Yes, this requirement is low. But on the other hand, the rise is quite high, because at the moment, five percent is enough for the exam to be passed. This means that 100 houses built from a builder will collapse 95. This means that out of 100 patients, five percent will be cured. Colleagues, think about what numbers we are talking about! The rise is quite high, yes. But there are two years to prepare. I'm... I think it was the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia, which has submitted its estimates that more than 50 schools do not currently qualify. Yeah, that's right. But think about the future of these children, think about how much can be done in two years! And most of these schools are between 35 and 40 percent, which can be raised in two years. But a school in which the average mark of the math exam... the average result is 10, 15, 16 percent, - well, I'm sorry, it's not high school. It just abducted the students of this school for a normal future career, a normal professional life. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U392	Name to Member Andris Morozov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U393	It was so exciting that I fell asleep... Minister, it must have been assumed in your party that it is wrong to attack - it is self-defence. But I guess that's why you and your work over four years appreciate that you are not a minister of education, but a professor of Riga Technical University. It's probably also an indicator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U394	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U395	Colleagues, the Commission has supported the proposal 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U396	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - a proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia. There was a debate on this, each Member expressed his opinion. I call for a vote, so that there is no doubt about what has happened during the sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “A very wise decision!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, for - no, for - 1. The proposal is supported. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U397	Consequently, Proposal No 10 does not...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U398	Not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U399	11. - An offer from Members Imants Debtor, Inguns Rībena, Lolitas Čigāne, Inese Pastruta, Valdis Skujiņa and Inga Bites. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U401	12. - The proposal of the Renderer of Members, Rībena, Chiganas, Sustrautas, Skujiņa and Bitte. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U402	Members shall not object. So Members want to debate. Name to Member Andris Burns. On Amendment 12, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U403	Colleagues, I think we could think a little about this point, no harm. Besides... Article 2a provides an opportunity. The municipalities agree with each other if they wish. They may be financed. And if they agree that they do not see any possibility, then they can refuse. Why are we... it is also linked to the previous article, and I am pleased that it has been supported for public organisations and social enterprises operating. If any of the municipalities is concerned that this might happen not as much as necessary, then we will be so kind and, to eliminate the concerns, we will put it in the Cabinet Regulations! And, after all, the Treaty is what determines mutual cooperation. If one of the parties fails to comply with the contract, it may be terminated at any time. Why can't we give this an opportunity? Now is the pre-election time. We all say that there must be an initiative, that there must be an opportunity for something creative, good. This point does not make anything mandatory, but it provides an opportunity. Why do we want to give up? When we give it the chance, we reject it...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U404	The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U405	Hello, colleagues! Thank you to my colleague, Mr. Burns. We also came to a commission meeting with this reasoning, because these two proposals are actually linked. So far, the law stipulated that municipalities were entitled to provide aid, so that they could or could not, of their own free choice, but we divided these rights into two parts. In one, it lays down an obligation that has been supported in this previous proposal and the other retains this right. At the Commission's sitting we were told - and I hope the rapporteur will also confirm this - that by incorporating the previous proposal we are obliged to... but maintaining the municipality's right to finance other schools that will not be in accordance with the procedure established by this Cabinet of Ministers... not exclude this rule as such. As applicants, it seemed logical to divide into such a legal technique. But I would really like to hear from the rapporteur that these rights are permanent. This does not change this principle in any way, but imposes an additional obligation, which has been supported in the previous proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U406	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U407	Yeah, colleagues. I will read article 17 Local Government Competence in Education. A fifth paragraph of this Article provides that participation in the financing of private educational institutions shall be open on the basis of reciprocal agreements. What is the difference between proposal 12 and proposal 11? In the recently voted proposal 11, we oblige local governments to participate in the maintenance of private educational institutions established by public benefit organisations or established by social entrepreneurs. So those who do not make a profit in principle for themselves with this education. At present in Latvia, as far as I understand, there are about five or six such schools and there are much more private schools, and the municipalities are therefore entitled to participate in maintenance if they conclude a mutual agreement. That's the difference. I therefore call for the 12th proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U408	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - the proposal submitted by the Member Debtor, Rībena, Chiganas, Sustrauta, Skujiņa and Bites! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -14, for -7, for -48. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U409	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U410	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U411	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U412	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U413	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Minister of Education and Science Shadursky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U415	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U417	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U419	18. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U421	19. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U422	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U423	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U424	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U425	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U426	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U427	22. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U429	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U431	24. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U432	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U433	25. - The proposal from Member Valdis Skujiņš. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U435	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U437	27. - An offer from Members Imants Debtor, Inguns Rībena, Lolitas Čigāne, Inese Pastruta, Valdis Skujiņa and Inga Bites. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U438	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U439	Colleagues! I asked for the floor here, because here again it is necessary to return to the question that we have just discussed about Amendment 11, so whether the municipalities can finance private education institutions or whether some of these private education institutions have to be funded by compulsory funding. The title of this article is "Sources for financing the education system" and it talks about the role of municipalities in financing, and there is only a possibility of participating. The part that these schools, which have social welfare organisation status or social enterprise status, have to be funded on a compulsory basis is that they have fallen out here. So, please, probably for the second reading... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Adamovics: “Third!” ) specify this place for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U440	The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U441	Yes, on behalf of the applicants. We do not insist on supporting this proposal, because it is obvious that if we have introduced a norm, in which cases the municipalities are obliged to support in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers, then, of course, it is also necessary to write in the law what way. The Legal Bureau explained to us that it should not really appear as a new sentence after... before one sentence says that municipalities can participate, and the next when participating... Well, in order not to confuse your head, it will be clarified to the third reading. I hope that will happen. Indeed, in order not to confuse the head of colleagues, we are not asking for a vote on this proposal, but, of course, it must be incorporated in accordance with the supported proposal 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U442	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U443	Yeah, colleagues. We will again ask for these articles to be commented on by the Legal Office, but the explanation was: if Article 59 provides for rights and says that can be financed, it does not exclude the previously voted proposal 11, which obliges the relevant part of the schools to finance. But I promise that we will consult the Legal Bureau again before the third reading. So I am now calling for proposal 27 not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U444	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 27. - the proposal submitted by the Member Debtor, Rībena, Chiganas, Sustrauta, Skujiņa and Bites! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Better this hand than that tree!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 6, for - 59. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U445	28. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U447	29. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. Partly supported and included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U448	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U449	30. - Andra Morozov's proposal. Also partially supported and included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U450	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U451	31. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U452	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U453	32. - the proposal by Ms. Inguna Ribena. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U454	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U455	33. - The proposal by Member Inese Aizstraut. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U456	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U457	34. - An offer from Members Ainārs Mežulis, Inese Sustrūta and Viktoras Valaiņš. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U458	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U459	35. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U460	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U461	Also 36. - The proposal of the Renderer of Members, Ribena, Chigan, Sustrauta, Skujiņa and Bite - has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U462	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U463	37. - The proposal of the Renderer of Members, Rībena, Chiganas, Sustrautas, Skujiņa and Bitte. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U464	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U465	38. - The proposal of the Renderer of Members, Rībena, Chiganas, Sustrautas, Skujiņa and Bitte. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U466	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U467	39. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which reflects the launch, by year, of content education programmes based on competences in the relevant groups of classes from 1 September to 1 September 2020. The Commission has supported and I call on you fellow Members to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U468	Members support... Did Members want to debate? Mr. Vectyran, you wanted a debate? The 39th proposal for a debate? Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Vectyran.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U469	Dear colleagues, I listened more to Mr Shadursky than to you because he spoke more often. But I can't understand. Mr Šadurskis participated in the joint meeting of the trade union of educators, in which you agreed - the Cabinet of Ministers also in your person - on the remuneration of educators that it takes effect from 1 September 2018. And there is: minimum wage - 710 EUR. You are now saying: quality and quantity criteria have not been developed, but you have not been developed, the Ministry of Education and Science, but what you have decided - to give teachers this 30 euro premium - you do not want to give. The decision on teacher allowances from September 1 must take effect both on the basis of your agreement and on Article 53 of the Education Law. Why don't you want to do that? I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U470	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? The debate is closed, Minister, sorry. We should have applied more quickly. ( The utterances: “Let it speak! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U471	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that tomorrow we meet at the Ministry of Education and Science - both representatives of the government, representatives of the LIZDA and representatives of the Latvian Municipal Union - to agree on a final proposal on the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūris: “To execute the law!” ) And I am really sure next Tuesday will be adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, both on teachers’ additional funding at salary rates... and not only EUR 710 for teachers, but also for directors of schools with fewer than 500 pupils, i.e. directors of small schools. Wages rates as well as methodologists - 35 euros at the rate... Because... ( Internouncing call.) And, of course, we also heard the Prime Minister's and Finance's proposals, so that there are also rules on quality. From 1 September 2020 Thank you. Colleagues, I call for the amendments to the Education Act to be approved at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U472	I had to ask Mr. Vectyran first... Do you want to vote on Amendment 39? Want a vote on 39? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Vote. ( Subtotal: 39) The Member has the right to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U473	I call once again for support for Amendment 39.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U474	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 39. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U475	All the proposals have been examined. Colleagues, I call for support for the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U476	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 19, for - 2. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U477	Thank you. And the Commission has decided to set the deadline for the third reading of the proposals by 11 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U478	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 September of this year. Thank you to the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, for his participation and debate at the Saeima meeting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins. Ladies and gentlemen, in order that we may begin to examine this subject on the agenda, at least two thirds of the Saeima Members must attend the sitting in accordance with the Constitution. Therefore, before we start to examine this draft law, we must register to establish the quorum. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please the result! 86 Members have registered, so we can begin to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U479	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”. So this is about our basic law. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) This amendment presupposes the election of the President of the State by an open vote. This bill has been examined by the Legal Commission. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that before this draft law was examined by the Legal Commission, such an initiative was also assessed by a working group set up by the Legal Commission, in which various experts were heard. At the meeting of the Commission, when examining this draft law, the Commission heard representatives of the Legal Bureau who indicated that this was a political issue. So this is a question of political resolution. The Commission decided to support the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia and also sent a call to all Saeima committees to discuss the draft law. We have received opinions from 10 commissions today. Nine commissions have supported this draft law, but one commission has said that it will not be seen, because it is not a matter of their competence. From the answers given we see that the majority of the commissions have decided to support this amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. Consequently, the Legal Commission also invites to support the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. I can say right away that the Commission has decided and on behalf of the Commission I will call for a deadline of five days for the submission of proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U480	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U481	The President is the owner of Riga Castle, the person who plays a very important role in the context of national security of our country, the first person of Latvia representing our country internationally. In theory, colleagues, the best of our two million people that we can put at the forefront of our country, so that he can serve as a symbol of our country and a representative of our country. Also internationally. It must be a person able to unite a nation, inspire people, be far-sighted and sustain the direction of issues of social importance. The man with whom we can really be proud. According to history, presidents in Latvia were selected in a shameful way – in a zoo, in a hotel room and elsewhere, admitted to the political market of the Saeima, elected hidden from the public's eyes, in a secret vote. Colleagues, how can we ensure that Latvia's best people, with whom we can really be proud, agree to become presidential candidates and would like to become the first person of our country? Only if they knew that they were taking part in the process of selecting a President who was honest, open and understandable to the public. Only if they knew that this process would not humiliate them, that it would not humiliate themselves and the Saeima. Accountability, colleagues! Much has been said about this. The public is talking about this. The public expects each Member to take responsibility for its own decisions. And now we have to think about how we can respond to the public if it is not possible to find out how 100 Members of the Saeima have voted. What's that name? This is a collective irresponsibleness. Members exercise the will of voters and act in their best interests. How do you find out? At present, nothing. Each Member will have to state why he has taken this decision. He will not be able to hide behind the flag of collective irresponsibility: “My group has imposed it; you see, the vote is secret, I will not open my vote.” Then you will have to go with arguments, answer journalists and the public - why you have voted like this and why you have supported the individual becoming the first person in the country. Colleagues, how much can be discussed, assessed, formed working groups and discussed? The debate has been ongoing for years. November 24, 2011. I too was one of the applicants. The amendments were submitted to the Saeima for the public election of the President. They were seen later on March 29, 2012. The Saeima rejected these amendments. ‘ There were only 53 votes, not enough constitutional majority, “no” - 25, abstained - 7, and did not vote - 5. The main “to” was the “Centre of Conciliation” and the ZZS. Next - May 23, 2014. Amendments were tabled again in order to make the elections open. This time at the Saeima Bureau with an application saying that “I would like to withdraw my signature from the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”, which is to be discussed at the meeting of 29 May 2014,” said Member Jānis Upenieks, and these amendments were not further directed. On 25 April 2018, the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia submitted a proposal for a nation-elected president. This offer, colleagues, is welcomed, for example, by experts in constitutional law, such as Egils Levits, Edgars Pastis and others. Such amendments were driven because the President represents the whole nation and not a particular party or interest group. Criteria - 40 years, must not have been an agent for the security services of the USSR... There are too few criteria. There is a lack of an important criterion - people's support. That is why I and the Latvian Association of Regions believe that society must be involved in the process of selecting its first person. These amendments were, in fact, rejected in the Saeima without discussion, even preventing further negotiations in the Saeima on this idea. Immediately, immediately, 2018, so this year, on 10 May, the Association of the Regions of Latvia submitted a very precise small amendment to the Constitution, which provides for an open election of the President. The first vote. Mr. Neighbours climbed the podium to speak against. In the first vote, this issue was not put on the agenda. ‘ The opposite was the majority - the FAO, the SASCAN, the National Union, the independent Members, as well as Mr. Neighbours himself. Go on. A week later, on 17 May, we managed to move it forward by 53 votes in favour. ‘ No vote was taken or no vote was taken by the FAO, Members of the National Union, one of the Unity and one of the independent Members. Colleagues! It's been almost four months. It was time, more than a month, for the Saeima to be able to adopt this amendment at first reading. This was to be done by Ligo's festival. Consequently, the Saeima summer holiday as an excuse for not making decisions cannot be accepted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What another holiday, Smilten! You're not in school! Holiday!” ) There were also Commission meetings where this issue was postponed due to the lack of voting by individual Members. The resistance was great. Colleagues! There are less than 30 days left and we need to adopt this draft law in three readings. Therefore, the Latvian Association of Regions offers a precise road map, on Monday, the Prime Minister also offered to sign the... Well, man and name, right? Accurate road map! Only this is possible to adopt the amendment to the Constitution proposed by the Association of the Regions of Latvia by 4 October. And that means that today we vote in favour at first reading, we set a deadline of five days, we agree that we do not make other proposals, we convene a meeting of the Legal Commission on 12 September and move to the next sitting of the Parliament, we decide at second reading on 20 September, we move to the Legal Commission on 26 September, and on 4 October, in fact two days before the elections, we can accept these amendments. Colleagues, you are surprised that populists, unloving forces of Latvia come to the Saeima... and how much he has said! It has a clear and clear cause: the result of the action and inaction of the coalition parties themselves. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “ Dude, you’ve been sitting in UNIT for a million years! What are you talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ The family is drawn and unable to make such important but simple decisions. 30 days is still left, there is an opportunity to make some corrections before the public, even a little more to improve public confidence in the Saeima. There are three issues that need to be resolved within this 30-day period: amendments aimed at reducing the greed of fast credit firms, amendments to the Public Procurement Law to combat wasteful procurement, and, colleagues, this amendment to the Constitution, which would give an open election to the first person of the country – the president of Latvia, who supports the nation, unites the people, and with whom we could all be proud. The open election of the President of Latvia is a matter of self-respect for the Saeima. It is a matter of honour, it shows our attitude towards our people. Colleagues! That is probably the simplest amendment in the history of the Saeima: only two letters must be voted on - not even word, but two letters! - modification of the Constitution. It's so easy! At first it seemed impossible, but now all parliamentary groups have made a promise to the people of Latvia. ( Milestones.) So you finally want it, don't you? You want it, but the question is, can you? Colleagues, if it turns out on 4 October that they want words but cannot really, then these Members have no place in the Saeima. If this amendment is not accepted on 4 October and sent to Raimonds Vējonis for an announcement, then this Saeima is useless. It must then be replaced by other people, young people, who will keep the word and fulfil the promise given to society. And the last one. The great politician and lawyer Nelson Mandela has said: “It always seems impossible until it is done.” I hope that we will say these words on 4 October about this amendment to the Constitution, which provides that in the centenary of Latvia we should have an open election of the President of Latvia. Thank you. I call for support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U482	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U483	Hello, fellas! I'm sorry! Zdrasty, gossip! I understand the wish of Member Smilten, nostalgia after the Soviet times, when, in this same room, everyone voted unanimously - under the supervision of the Committee, under the supervision of the KGB -. That's great, my friend Smilten! I'm glad for you, for your desire to return to this lovely time that reigned here some 30 years ago. I'm sorry I'm not on this “hurse wave”! I'm so sorry I'm not so excited... I don't want to come back here during the Supreme Council... I am very sorry to those who are looking at this matter with enthusiasm. ( Internouncing call.) Yes, I would perhaps be a nation-elected president. But forgive me! Not for an openly elected president of a people, but for a closed vote. And as a shahist, who has to figure out a lot of options in the chess game (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Dad, then you should have the chess and the hair now!” ), I would suggest you think about this. We have open elections. These elections are coming, and the media are beginning to see how outstanding information is, for example, Mr Levite or Mr. How many colleagues, well-known teachers and artists will come and tell how great they are and how good they will be as presidents. But when we sit here... Can we vote against the neighbourhood or can we? And we'll be told... Journalist Boyr has shown us a good way to create information. He had such a good story about a whirlwind in which this little, dear, fluffy... by giving you absolutely true information, just by turning something around, changing something, this fluffy beast turned into a monster. And then it happens that these people have voted against Mr Levite or Mr. Neighbours... The newspapers will state that they are monsters. I will not want to be a monster, I will vote in favour of the neighbourhood! And the second thing. Contact us: Now these media are not so loyal to our Latvian country! Although, for example, a foreign media such as Delfi has long prohibited me from expressing my opinions and even commenting. They're so afraid of Valdis Kalnozols' comments that you understand for yourself... I am against the introduction of these traditions of the Supreme Council into this space.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U484	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U485	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Indeed, it is true that we are not debating these small but very important amendments in the Constitution for the first time here and in this Saeima. However, I very much hope that, for the last time indeed, and thanks to various processes, we will be able to correct the Constitution and make it possible for us to elect the President of Latvia in an open vote. Dear colleagues, The so-called oligarchs' talks showed how clumsy the political market is taking place in every presidential election. Dear colleagues, The public has asked us to make these amendments to the Constitution and to provide for open votes. Unfortunately, there have been parties among us so far who have not been prepared to support it. And it's a party SAVE and the Union of Greens/Farmers. I very much hope (and there is reason to hope that something has changed at the moment. Changes in the Union of Greens and Farmers are reflected in the article “The Voters of the Latvian Avīze”. This article quotes Armands Krauze, Chairman of the Board of the Greens/Farmers Union, who says: “The voters bring me up and convince me. When I go around and meet people, I am convinced that the people want an open presidential election. I, as a servant of the people, must respect this position.” I am very sorry that Mr Krauze is not here in the Chamber at the moment, and he will not be able to confirm, with his vote in favour, that he is prepared to respect the will of the people. However, this article, this publication, shows that he has heard it at least. I hope that the members of the Greens/Farmers' Union will take an example from Mr Krauze and will also hear and vote in favour. I hope that, finally, the party will also be tired of the fact that it is you who always blames the presidential elections for buying or otherwise negotiating votes; that it is you who are always in this political market and in this vote-sale that is responsible for the political group. Let's just put a point on it. We will vote in favour of these amendments to the Satversme and give this gift to our society and to our country on the 100th anniversary! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U486	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U487	Dear President, Honourable Members! I also call on you to vote in favour of these amendments, but I call for you not to lie here. And I want to make it clear that we will be voting for very different reasons than some of the speakers have said here. It is extremely silly to come up with a gymnasium at the level of girls and tell them that the public vote in Communist countries is something that we are very excited about. On 4 May, we voted to have a closed vote, not to have a previous system, where the cheque and the cheka controlled how each one voted and followed the repression. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībena: “That’s it!” ) But why should we change this voting system? Because we were blowing freedom. We have free elections... And it has to be fair to all our constituents, and you don't have to tell them here that you've got to control... that switching to a controlled vote is democratic and better than an expression of free will, which is a secret vote! We won't lie! That is not the case, but we took this opportunity in the previous presidential elections. ( Internouncing call.) We had the opportunity, in closed elections, to vote in favour of a president who speaks freely in three foreign languages - French, German and English - who has legal education and who some - not everyone but some - should not have to vote for at some international meetings. However, we did not make use of this opportunity. And now we need to move to an open vote, which has both its own pros and cons. The minus is that it is a controlled vote - one that is controlled by both party leadership and others, and so on. What's the pros? I agree with Levit - one plus is there. But it's not very big. The addition is that the President of Latvia, if he is a truly outstanding personality (I hope we will elect one in the next elections), sees what he can count on, on what forces, on which groups he can rely in Parliament, and he can come with his own initiatives. But it is only a possibility; it is only if the President is really great - one who has initiatives. On the other hand, the Constitution says that the President does not bear political responsibility for his decisions. This shall be carried out by the relevant minister, who shall prepare or sign these decisions. And so it's not significant plus. And that's why... I'll tell you one minus. You remember that Armenia had to vote three times in favour of this new prime minister to change its corrupt leadership. Why three times? Because Armenia had an open vote and people were afraid of the consequences if they replaced the former corrupt man. By replacing this voting system in Parliament, it was possible to elect. In a free vote, however, Armenia has replaced this leader and another President has been elected, as you know. That is why I am calling for support. Let's see this experiment, as it is, partly controlled... Let us put on our necks something that has not followed the party's discipline in some way, and let us hope that the next President will be fairly elected in open elections. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U488	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U489	Dear colleagues, This issue can be decided in different political ways. It is just to be sure that the solution is the best one. Do you have the belief that it is the best, not the best, that it is sealed with populist speeches that, you know, the people will see how we work? Believe or not, the people will see how you vote. But in fact... if we look at this open election history in the past of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, then we see that at the very beginning many meetings of commissions and the Saeima Presidium, the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers have been closed. These sittings were then amended as open... behind misunderstood democracy to decide many issues... Prior to that, closed sittings were held. Whatever it says. What do you call them here in the Saeima? What's the name of the Cabinet? Together, decide how to do this, and then there is a public sitting where purely political or populist innovation is needed on how to make the right decision. In fact, this is what is happening. And what happens now in the Saeima, when the people... I am sorry when Members elect the President of State, but more or less such an agreement has taken place all the time. And do you think that the open vote will be different? That the parties will not come together, the leaders of the parties will not agree which one we will now support? And the party that has a lot of donators... Their donor will say: “You have not voted for me. I'm asking for a vote on what I paid you money." While the elections are closed... and I fully agree here with what Mr. Nunozol said... secret elections are, by their very nature, the most democratic because a person expresses his free will by voting. And if the principle of secret elections were not protected worldwide in parliamentary elections, then we would say that Parliament could also be elected under very strict control. Every man is free. But in the workplaces, in the municipalities, in the neighbors, everyone would watch what you voted for, and then blame this man. Not isolated, just to blame. If we look at Latvia's history in the context of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, then I have to say that never in the Constitution of Latvia there was an idea that the President of Latvia will be elected in an open vote in Parliament. Yes, at the very beginning there was a completely different project. The Constitutional Meeting, when preparing the draft, predicted that the president would be elected by the people. And the entire Constitution was built on this principle. Therefore, the Constitution also contains a clause that a people's elected president may release the Saeima and not the Saeima's own elected President shall release his voter. There's that logic. Only with a few differences of votes did this project go further. And again they worked personal ambitions, surnames, suspicions of something that could win someone because he's more popular among the people. God does not give us the opportunity to elect this official as we need from party control. Because the people have been elected disobedient to party control. I did not call on you to vote in favour or against this particular proposal this time. As a lawyer, my position is very clear, and I have expressed this position both here at the parliamentary tribunal when this project was passed on to the parliamentary commission and at the sitting of the Legal Commission. And perhaps Mr. Berzins, who did not mention this in his speech, was one working group led by Ringolds Balodis, who gave the Legal Commission the opinion that the right solution was the president elected by the people. And such a project went through. It was simply not a further project, because the Latvian Parliament did not dare to hand over these issues to the people. At the moment, the Saeima is trying to take one half of its promise as if closer to the people through the pre-election period. Yes, not in the normal normal procedure. So each one of you has the confidence that you feel better. Whether it is just a suffocating of the eyes, or indeed it is a step forward for democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U490	The name to Member Roman Mežecki.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U491	Hello, colleagues! The real reason for the possibility for the Saeima to openly elect the Presidents of the State is to try to get on the path of the public's explicit demand for a people's elected president. What, then, are the people who are the most opposed to the idea of a people's elected president? These people are very narrow. They are on the numbers of two fingers, they are some of the leaders of parties and political groups. Of course, these people are most not interested in the election of a recognised majority of the people, which means that the leader of the nation, the president, has been given general authority. Because it is likely that such a nation chosen, not party in informal markets and zoos, and a nation-elected president will be a much more independent and popular leader. And perhaps he will not need the leadership of the parties that have always existed so far, so the parties do not want to lose power. And what are the parties doing? They do not honestly say: “We in the position parties are against the will of the people, and we do not want to give part to the people of our power so that it can elect its own, the people, the president.” No, no, no, no! Lots distract from this issue by creating a false target... that, behold, the life of the society is as if very impacting on whether the parliament elects the president secretly or openly. No, it will neither change anything in the lives of the people nor in the life of the parliament itself. And so that nothing changes in the country and everything stays old, that's what these people and their co-runners want. Want the power to remain in the narrow circle of these few people. So we don't have to talk about things that won't change anything. The essence of these two electoral models is whether the power is the nation or the power is the power of the parties. Therefore, I think it would only be fair if a referendum of all the nations were held on the opportunity for the people to elect their own President. And obviously, if there is no other way to realize the will of the majority of the people, the next Saeima will have to lead such an initiative and finally solve this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U492	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U493	Good afternoon, colleagues! Well, if we look at the world's experience and look at the percentage of countries where officials are elected openly and secretly, then, of course, we would see that the secret elections are very large. I, too, am in favour of a secret election, but unfortunately I must say that, as Mr Kirštein has said, for almost 30 years now, we ourselves have this democratic opportunity, to say that we have been engaged, to say the least, and we are engaged in our own mastery, because the election of almost every official is accompanied by some kind of charting, and - which is there to hide! - practically all lots do so. All parties want to chart people that they like, and this is not always true of the word "professionality". So we have all sinned, and we are in a situation where society no longer believes us; this is what we see after how quickly 11 thousand signatures were collected on manbals.lv. So, unfortunately, we have to react to this, and perhaps after years 25-30, when there is a completely new generation of politicians sitting here, it will be possible to return to the closed elections, which is still a little more democratic. The only objection I am thinking of is, however, that it is not right that we elect the leaders of repressive institutions in open elections. But now let's believe that we choose them right and that no repression against anyone... Any unelected will never affect the Saeima. Therefore, yes, I also call for support for this amendment to the Constitution, for support for the open presidential elections, but I hope that perhaps we will once again grow to true and fair democracy and be able to return to the hidden.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U494	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U495	Dear colleagues, From this troupe, we have so much debated both in this Saeima - the 12th Saeima - and in the 11th Saeima for an open election of the President. I, too, have taken part in all this debate and I can say with satisfaction that new Members have come together, who were rather pre-arranged against, but have now understood at this time - yes, there are a number of roads in democracy, but now the election of the President of Latvia is directly open to Latvia, which could reconcile society with political processes. ( The utterance: “Funny things! ”) ) And this saying “good comes with waiting, warm - with heating” may also apply to this issue. Although I will only believe it on 4 October. Today's vote will not convince me yet. Opponents often indicate (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “There are no opponents! Everyone says, "We vote!" ) that the public votes allow for pressure on Members and that they exclude their own internal convictions and conscience. Today, too, my fellow Members have said this, and I am very respectful that they share these concerns openly. However, I would also like to say that it is appropriate to look at and reread what is enshrined in the code of conduct of Members of the Saeima. The Code of Conduct for Members states that a Member cannot plead pressure from government representatives, parties or other persons to justify a vote against his conscience. It's our code of ethics, colleagues! Thus, because of fear and acceptance, it must be said: yes, colleagues recognise that they are under pressure and that they are exposed. But then you need to think seriously about whether you are worthy and capable of fulfilling the duties of a leader of the people, whether you are worthy and able to face the challenge at the elections. If everything happens, as the Legal Commission intends, and the third reading will take place on 4 October (which is two days before the Saeima elections), then we can really say from this troupe that the Saeima has understood the mistakes that have been made when the previous presidents were elected. If this is not the case, then let us wait for the parliamentary elections, perhaps with even more disappointment from the voters. So that today we are going to go so little promised, but those real decisions will still be made, because there will be a second and a third reading as well. Colleagues, courage! And let's not be afraid! We are in the first place, and pressure. — Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Well, come on, please!” ), Members, too, Mr. Neighbours, will probably not have to experience.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U496	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U497	Dear colleagues! In this Chamber, I am the last person to enjoy the operation of the presidential election mechanism on my skin. Those who remember it may remember how all this happened, and so I wanted to share my thoughts on this today. The first thing I want to say. In spite of Mrs Chigan and others' statements, the SAA has always been consistent. INTEROPERABILITY has always stood up as a nation-elected President of State. That's why experiments with the Constitution, which has been very popular in recent years, have not been particularly supported by SAID, not only by individual Members or separate political groups... You can blame each other for the zoo, for Mr. Zatler's... The promises made to Mr Zatler from the same side of union and so on, and so on. But that's not important! I'm very rare... My opinion rarely coincides with that of Mr Kirštein, but in this case, what he said about the pros, the minuses and everything else, there is undoubtedly a very large part of the truth. It's really big. Experiments with the Constitution are dangerous in principle, but in this case experimenting is not sin. And I would like to say that I would like to support the draft law tabled, this amendment to the Constitution, but it remains and will remain with my mind and my intention that the President of Latvia should be elected by all nations. Because the next experiments can lead us to set up a coalition Presidency council in place of the President, where the existing coalition groups will be represented. It could also be one of the experiments. That's the way we should go? I don't think we should try. Thank you. (Applause) Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U498	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! I see and hear, of course, that you are tired because we work without interruption. I, too, have always argued that a break is necessary. I call on all Members, who may have been delayed by coffee drinking or some other urgent need, to come back, because at the moment we are really dealing with one very important issue. It is not simply a law; it is not a grant to one or the other sector. It is a constitutional issue. First of all, a few comments. Mr Nunozole said that the secret vote was, however, much better for democracy, and that we were getting much better results. I would like to offer Mr Nunozol a play chess without seeing the figures of the opponent. I think that would be very difficult and the final result would not be predictable. I would like to remind you once again that we are voting openly by all the other officials and that we, thank God, have not yet returned to the Soviet Union, so also to the President of Latvia, I believe that we are able and can be elected by an open vote. Mr Kūtra has mentioned the fact that there are already different formats for sittings - there is an open part and a closed part. As far as I can see, this is the case with the Saeima: both the Bureau's large sittings and the Bureau's small sittings. And because the donors are now able to control and one of the party's functions will be able to control the votes of Members... Ladies and gentlemen, right now, I think this is happening! This is because, unlike in the early 1990s, when everyone had no smartphones, the leader of each party can certainly ask the Members of his political group to take pictures of each of them and then show them to see how each of them has voted. It is good if it is mutual agreement and there is nothing to hide from Members. Association of Latvian Regions... By the way, when we elected the current President, we did exactly that. We agreed with each other before, and then, of course, we also showed who has voted on it and that its agreement has been fulfilled. And, by the way, I did not take part in the vote because I saw that something has already been charted somewhere, the presidential candidate in question has actually already been elected and that, therefore, our vote, the vote of the Members who voted last, is simply no longer relevant. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that you have already returned to a large number, even though Mr Many has not long seen it. Many of the Union of Greens/farmers have not been seen for some time. Mr. Mežecka is gone. No, Mr. Megulis, Mr. Rasmann and others, Mr. Krauze... Obviously these are those Members who, however, did not listen to what the leaders of their political groups said. ( Internouncing call.) All due respect to the non-existent leaders of both the FAO and the SACAN Group who said that they themselves would support this initiative! However, we do not know how many will support the groups concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! I call for this decision to be made now, because there is indeed a lot of talk about it, a lot of judgment, a lot of debate from different sides, from different sides. And if we do not accept it today at first reading, if not again in this House, then the next Saeima will have to return to this issue. Because public demand for open presidential elections has increased. Unfortunately, it must also be said how well the current President of Latvia is doing. I call for the 'yes' or 'no' vote, as appropriate, not to hold back on this important issue, as I said earlier. It is not just a draft law, it is not a simple small point in one of the laws, it is a question of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, it is a question of the President of Latvia, it is a question of the honour of our country and a question of every person's honour. I call on you not to hide and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U499	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U500	Dear Members, Most of all, I am surprised that the majority of the Saeima sees in this bill and in the open presidential election the rescue from all kinds of agreement. I would like to remind you that the agreement between the political forces has taken place, is taking place and will continue until the Latvian legal system is based on parliamentaryism. In Parliament, there is an ongoing agreement between parties, and that is the norm. Secondly. I would like to say that the political agreement will take place in hotels, zoos and coalition councils. There is no difference between the zoo and the coalition council. There is no legislative act regulating the conduct of meetings of the coalition council, just as there is no act regulating conspiracy (footsteps) that takes place in hotels and zoos. That is why I would also like us simply not to give in to the illusions that this practice of agreement will come to an end. I would also like to remind you that in the second presidential election, Chaksti was elected to the second vote only because an agreement was reached with the social democrats who withdrew Raini in favour of Chakštes. But Rainis received a majority in the first vote, as you remember, but did not receive an absolute majority to be elected President of Latvia. I would also like to tell you that we have heard Lolita call and will support this draft law, even though, as Sergey Dolgopolov reminded you, we have always stood up for a people's elected president, we are still in the process of standing and we will stand up, and we hope that in the next term, Parliament will be both so smart and strong and insane that it will get this result that our people have long been waiting for. But, by the way, the joke is that the people's elected president will be elected by secret ballot, because no one will come to mind asking our voters to state openly how he or she voted and on which presidential candidate. I therefore say once again that this draft law is certainly subject to the electoral procedure. Our constituents are well aware of this option, so our group has decided to support this draft law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U501	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U502	Hello, colleagues! I think no one doubts that these constitutional amendments will be adopted. There's no doubt. And that is why I would like to congratulate the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia on a new title. I think if we gave the titles here, then they would certainly have the title of the changers of the Constitution in this Saeima (Art.30, now Art.36). But what do I mean? The lectures on constitutional rights that I have to present are very good to mention some specific examples of life, so to speak. Because it makes it easier for students to understand what this is about. Talking further about the amendments to the Satversme, it is necessary to understand that the amendments to the Satversme as such are deliberately burdened with various procedural matters not only in our country, but also in other countries, so that it would not be possible to take such abilities populist decisions, which may seem pleasant to all at the moment when they would be adopted, but which would later be disappointed. And therefore, when talking about amendments to the Satversme, it should be said that it is now in Latvia that the principle of two thirds, three readings and two thirds is included in Article 76. In order for the amendments to the Constitution to be adopted, there should be two thirds of the members of the Saeima and there should be three readings instead of two (this means that amendments could not be adopted as a matter of urgency!) , and then by two-thirds of the votes cast by the Members who take part in the vote... not only those who have registered, but all those who vote in favour, “no” and “abstain”... And the best example of why this way of making it difficult is today - this step... For example, Estonia, which is often set an example for us (there is a lot to teach from our little northern neighbours!) The Constitution may be amended in two parliamentary configurations. You know, two! One amendment is approved at first reading and then approved again in the next term. On the other hand, we're driving through... Lībiņa-Egnere says: “It’s all good that we will adopt these amendments so quickly.” We are doing the opposite: we have no such burden. What I want to say is, well, there's no worse. I also agree that the President of State should be elected by the people. There will be no worse. In the past, red pens had to be used to mark those people who are voting correctly or incorrectly. ( Interface: “Greens! ”) ) Thanks to the Unity Emissary Smilten, who, in my opinion, has gone to the regions to bring them to a definitive destruction... Thanks to his suggestion, it will now be clear to everyone: red pens are needed. I think it won't be any worse. We support it because, if there is a demand for openness, we need to set up and implement it! But there is no point. The people will also realise that fundamental changes are essential. For example, in the same Estonia one-third of Members may propose amendments to the Constitution. We're a little lower. No, obviously, if we are talking about the President of Latvia, we really have to think about fundamental things, because we are voting for, colleagues, but we understand that the people will still not be satisfied with it and that the story will become more topical. The last presidential elections have shown this exactly - the situation where there is a desire for openness, a desire for an open presidential election. But for those of us who? Not in the Saeima. The nation also has a desire to participate in these decisions and to express its will. And here, I think we'll see either Raimonds Vējonis again or a good person who's going to take this place again. And in principle, by nature, no fundamental good, in such a wider sense, good, no change is expected for us. Vote for and throw peace!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U503	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U504	For 52 minutes now, we have been talking about the need for an open presidential election. INTEROPERABILITY is “for”, ZZS is “for”, LRA is “for”, the Unity is “for”, the nationals are “for”, I am “for”. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Let’s vote! Let's vote! Let's vote!' ) What have we been talking about for 53 minutes now? Could we give 53 minutes to questions about the economy? Maybe we could talk about the OIC floor for 53 minutes. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. V.Spolitis: “Let’s vote!) We elect all the officials in an open manner. That's it! This topic is pronounced. ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ; dep. A. Berzins: “Good! Next President!’ ) Let's vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U505	The name to Member Edward Smilten, for the second time. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U506	See, colleagues, what the elections are doing! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much. (Laughter) On 10 May, colleagues, Artus Kaimiņš voted 'no', now he supports. That's great! ( Milestones.) But if you're serious... Mr. Nunozole, I don't know, you've been to a Communist party or you're not. But I know a hundred percent of myself that I couldn't even technically be there. ( Milestones.) But one thing is clear. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) It is suspected that some people are still thinking at that time. I call you to wake up. For 30 years Latvia has been an independent and free country! An example of the past that you have called for open votes to be a drug against repression - in totalitarian regimes - during the Communist period it was a medicine. In the case of Latvia, this is a disaster in our democracy. In your time, these hidden votes could reduce fear. Fear, colleagues, today? What are you afraid of? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “ Dude, what's going on in your head?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) And this is the question: What is the signal you are sending to your constituents, those who went to barricades that were not afraid of? Do we remember those who were shot and killed? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Everyone is for!” ) You know, freedom and independence lie behind fear. And that's why an example of one of the most outstanding Members of the Saeima, I think, is Ilmu Čepan. She was not afraid to vote against the Group's opinion, she often ignored party discipline, but was thus completely free and independent in her decisions. And just for that reason, colleagues, she gained authority in society and politics! She gained authority and respect because of her courageous and free decision making. And, my fellow Members, it is precisely such members of the Saeima that the people of Latvia want to see in the next Saeima. Next. President-elect of the People's Republic. Of course, the idea is sympathetic. Only everyone needs to understand that the next step is to increase powers. Our Constitution has created a fine framework for the balance of power and, in fact, this would mean the end of parliamentary democracy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “We talked about it ten times! Why do you have to repeat?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, “ And the last one. Less than 30 days are left until 4 October when the last sitting is held. There is a precise timetable in which this can be done. One mistake, one... one meeting of the panel at which it is postponed and these amendments will not enter into force. I therefore call on both journalists and the public to keep track of how everything will be done to bring these amendments into force on 4 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U507	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “May we vote before Mr. Vucanas?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U508	Hello, fellow Members, again! Emotions are drying up and hit an ever higher wave... Each of us has our own experience in the presidential elections and, as has been the case, each of us can judge from our own experience and our own responsibility. I cannot say that I would have a very extensive experience, I have participated in the election of only two presidents (there are colleagues who have done it more than once), but every time I have been on this platform and have argued why I voted in favour of one or another. And no one is forbidden! Those who do not want to hide but want to tell them what their opinion is - they have always been allowed, and those Members who have wanted have used it. To the President. In his first speech, Mr Smilten quite rightly said that the President of our country, like any other country, is something special. I would like to say that he is like one of the symbols of the country: we have an anthem, we have a flag, we have a coat of arms, we have a president. When we wish him, we can support him as Members and we can vote against him. But with the election, he becomes all the nations - not just the Member, but all the nations! - President. And then the question is: is it good that such an elected president of all the nations knows who has voted against him and who has voted in favour? Is it better for all Members of the Saeima to be equally dear to him because he has been elected by the Saeima? At the same time, he has his own... all Members, not just those who have supported him in the election process, must be equally responsible for their duties. You know I come from an academic environment. Practically, my entire working life is still in the academic environment. And it is very difficult to imagine that there, in an academic environment, one of the elections would be held openly, because it would immediately lead to contradictions between colleagues, between academic staff (Dep. J. Viļums: “It’s not the Saeima!” ), where one is the Chair of the Cathedral, the other is a simple lecturer. Yeah, it's not the Saeima, it's not the political environment. But now imagine the situation that we in Latvia would at some point really get to a wider democracy! I think that this will ever happen and that, in shaping the government, the President of Latvia will also have to entrust the role of Prime Minister to someone who has voted against this President. Is it or is it not good that he knows that the particular candidate for the Prime Minister was against? In his speech, Mr Kirstein mentioned the fact that it is good if the President knows what those on whom he can build. To a certain extent, yes. But I have doubts, because I think there are both benefits and disadvantages. And that is why I would also like to return to what Inese Lībiņa-Egnere said: that, by the very nature of the secret vote and this principle, which prevails in very, very many countries... perhaps this is the best way, but by our actions we have damaged this best way and now we want to go to a different democracy for some transitional period. And then, some years later, when we will be truly democratic, then we will perhaps return to the more advanced form of democracy that includes this hidden vote. That is why I will vote today in favour of moving this bill forward. But, to be honest, in the discussions that we had today, new arguments for the position that I have expressed earlier from this troupe (and my position has been 'no'). To be honest, I did not hear any new arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U509	Thank you. ( Internoint.) Thank you very much. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U510	Listening to this joke... Listening to this discussion, one anecdotes came in my mind. ( The box “Yes! ”) Conversation. The question is, ‘ What is your name? Answer: “Jajajanis Bbbberzins.” “ You’re getting a language?” - “No, my father took the language, but the one who registered me in the section of my family list was an idiot.” I very much hope that what we are doing now will not be the same idiotism. For unfortunately, colleagues, we must admit that we have not endured... this Saeima has failed to pass the test of responsibility, the test of freedom, the test of democracy. And it is necessary to return to some kind of control mechanisms, and I very much hope that we will be able to give up them in time and prove that there are things that need to be left to the Members themselves, and that they must be able to account for all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U511	I closed the debate. ( Slaughter with a hammer.) Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? There is nothing to add. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Applause) Thus, according to the Constitution, more than two thirds of the Members present have voted in favour of the draft law, and therefore the draft law at first reading has been approved. I ask the Commission to set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U512	Dear colleagues, Before I call for a deadline for the submission of proposals, I would like to briefly join Mr Kaimiņš's remarks on the pre-election of a debate in the context of this subject, and I very much hope that the pre-election debate will not affect the work plan of the Legal Commission. Otherwise, this may also affect Mr. Smilten's road map. And I very much hope that he will not be the one who will influence this road map. Colleagues, I call for a five-day deadline - that is, 11 September - for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U513	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 September of this year. Dear colleagues, Members Imants Debtor, Einars Cilinskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Kārlis Krēsliņš and Aleksandrs Kiršteins ask for a break for 30 minutes after consideration of a specific item on the agenda. Do Members have objections? Please call me! Let us vote for a 30-minute break! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So we work without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U514	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”, it has decided to support it and to direct it for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima sitting. This draft law is related to the draft law “Law on the rental of residential premises” already approved by the Saeima at first reading and is also related to the next item on the agenda – “Amendments to the law of the Notaries”. The purpose of the proposed amendments to the Civil Procedure Law is to motivate tenants and tenants to strengthen the rental right in land register for the protection of their interests (for tenants – in cases where a person will not release the tenancy of the lease agreement for residential premises and the delay of payments, and for tenants – to ensure that the concluded lease agreement is binding on the new owner). The amendments proposed in this draft law provide for the imposition of uncontroversial enforcement of obligations by the imposition of a person in cases where there is a rental debt or a lease term. A prerequisite for the application of the uncontested forced mechanism for this obligation is the strengthening of rental rights in the Land Register. However, in cases where the rental contract is not fixed in the land register, the uncontested enforcement of the obligation with the setting up of the person shall be provided only if there is a change of ownership of the immovable property. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U515	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 15, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U516	Please set the deadline for the submission of proposals on 5 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U517	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U518	The Legal Commission of the Saeima has also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Notaries”, it has decided to support it and to direct it for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima sitting. As I said, these amendments to the law are also related to the draft law “Law on the rental of residential premises”. The proposed amendments provide that rental agreements made in the form of a notary act shall be enforceable and transferred to forced execution in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on Civil Procedure. Even if the rental contract has been certified by a sworn notary, the uncontested enforcement of the obligations will be extended to such cases. First, on the obligation of the tenant to leave the rented dwelling and, second, on the obligation to pay the tenant a rent. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U519	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 16, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U520	I also ask this draft law on behalf of the Commission for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set at 5 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U521	The deadline for submitting proposals is 5 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law on consumer protection law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U522	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” for the second reading of the Saeima meeting. We have received seven proposals from the Commission. 1. is the proposal of Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U523	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U524	2. there is a motion from Member Valdis Kalnozols, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U525	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U526	Hello, brothers and sisters! In my opinion, this draft law is as important as the draft law on the elected president of the people and others. We can see exactly what kind of damage is caused to Latvia by fruiting, how many people of Latvia have left Latvia because of the loans, how many Latvian entrepreneurs have gone bankrupt due to this fruiting, taking this interest on the loan. And I would like to tell you that most of the basic religions in the European Union - Christianity, Judaism, Islam - are condemned. And there's no question of religion here, but thousands of years old, that fruiting is devastating. And it's not just recognition that fruiting is devastating; it's obvious that our people have suffered fruiting. And to be honest, I'm sad that we don't know it. We are like the leaders of the people, whose task is to protect the people, to take care of the people, but in fact we see as the norm that hundreds are because of fertility... Either, perhaps not hundreds of thousands, but some 50,000 Latvians have abandoned Latvia. At least 100 Latvian entrepreneurs have gone bankrupt due to fertility. We think it's the norm. That is why I have put forward proposals to make sure that we do not make cosmetic repairs in the unjust system that actually causes damage to our country, but that we change that significantly. Realize my proposals! Money is no longer... Those entrepreneurs who lend money on the fruit do so at their own risk. If they want to lend money to fruit, they do it, but the state does not support it. What's going on now? Our state is in favour of fruiting. But when I introduce my proposals, the country will not support fruiting. And I would also like to educate the leaders of the people a little bit. I advise you to see how the world's leading banks act, and then you would reveal that the world's leading banks are those banks that don't give money on the fruit that respects this Judaism principle, that the brother should not lend money to the fruit. And why could we not introduce this good tradition in our own country that a brother does not give his brother money on fruit and does not earn any fruit money? It is such a system that that money is not lent on fruit that promotes the economy! These banks, which do not lend money to fruit, are interested in developing their business so that the company to which the money is lent develops, not in any case paying interest: if they don't pay, let him go to the bank and we will sell his relatives! Since I have a great request - to study my proposals, understand how important they are for Latvia's country, and understand what losses the country of Latvia has suffered from fertility. And understand that we have to take care of the residents of Latvia, not just the banks. I understand that the banks want to earn, and the banks earn about 400-500 million a year at the expense of our citizens. Well, stop it! We take care of our economy, our people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U527	I closed the debate. Is something to be explained on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U528	In the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we heard the applicant's proposal and, as lawyers have pointed out, there are some shortcomings in this proposal. And Member Nanozol has the opportunity to improve this proposal and submit it to third reading. Therefore, the request does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U529	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -1, for -23, for -48. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U530	3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Mr. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U531	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U532	Colleagues! It seems to me that, when we were thinking about how to limit the appetite for quick credit and when we presented this bill in the Saeima (the Group of the Regions of Latvia presented it in spring), we thought about how and what can be done up to this parliamentary election in order to really achieve an effect. I think that the most important part is not so much in the section of the proposals as in the wording of the first reading, where we are lowering this interest rate from 200 per cent (and per cent) to 25 per cent, which is such a sufficiently serious step. But the question is, will this bill go to the end, where it should go? Yeah, let's see what proposals have been made! The first was Dana Reizniece-Ozola's proposal, in which she imposes various good restrictions, but in fact limits only those loans issued for up to 30 days. So let's go, let's go for 31 days, and all these restrictions don't count. The same is true with the third proposal proposed by Mr. It seems sympathetic, as until now the law only provided for six months, during which time it can be claimed that the solvency has not been assessed, and in this way actually try to get rid of these excessive interest payments. However, Proposal No 3 provides that the six-month period is to be replaced by 100 years. I mean, what do I mean by that? That the root of the amendments to this draft law, that core, essence, is 25 percent at first reading. What's happening right now... Various other proposals and proposals are being put forward to make this bill more burdensome to make it much more difficult to get this boat to a normal end, namely exaggerated proposals. And imagine purely practical: if all credit institutions have to store archive material for all loans granted, credit cards must prove that they have actually properly assessed their solvency... even for 80 years... I think this is an interesting way to get things to absurd! Therefore, I have also tried to look at this yesterday, and I would rather call for no support for the time being (although there is support in the Commission as we go through the speed), but I call on Mr Upenieks to submit a rational, reasoned proposal. Otherwise, I have such a silent suspicion that careful attempts are being made to put in this law so many absurd or exaggerated things, that even if we accept it before 4 October, it could return to the Saeima, i.e. the President could return it because of the quality of the law. That is why I am not going to support Amendment 3 and I look forward to amendments from the Ministry of Economics for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U533	The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U534	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take note of the proposals made. This proposal simply means that we do not set a specific deadline in this draft law, but anyone against whom the law will be violated... in accordance with the procedure established by the Law on Civil Procedure... he may bring an action against that offender. Colleagues! I think you will all agree that our aim is one: to defend the consumer, and that is what we are doing in this law, too. It must not be forgotten that someone wants to vote or vote here! Colleagues! We are ready to bring this draft law to the end of this parliamentary term, supporting it and voting it. And I call on my colleagues here who speak very noblely from the platform to spend at least one sitting... full time before the end of the sitting... I call you, not three times, to make a phone call, or else, to take this sitting time, but to focus one hundred percent on the work of the sitting! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: Bravo! ) Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U535	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U536	Dear colleagues, I understand the meaning and purpose of Mr Upenieks's proposal. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this law applies not only to quick loans but also to all types of credit, including mortgage credit. Mortgage lending companies warn that if proceedings are initiated against a debtor who has not really paid, he has failed to fulfil his obligations towards the creditor, the creditor, the debtor may bring actions against the creditor in order to relax proceedings, freeze them so as to simply prevent... to get time to defend yourself, and thus use this rule to abuse. I therefore think that the third reading should make a reservation that this proposal, tabled by Mr Upenieks, does not apply to mortgage lending. That's my idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U537	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U538	Yeah, colleagues. The proposal has been prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and has also been tabled by Mr Upenieks, which is why it has been discussed in the Commission and various opinions have been heard. Request to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U539	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -6, for -3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U540	Proposal No 4 is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr Upenieks, who has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U541	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U542	Ladies and gentlemen! There is one more proposal from Mr Riverer here, and I must draw your attention to the norm contained in it. In particular, at the previous reading, we adopted a text which stipulates that the lenders are obliged to exchange information between themselves on the obligations of the consumer or the guarantor and on the progress of their performance. Mr President's proposal obliges him to exchange this information with the credit information office. I'll tell you in brief. We also addressed this issue in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Currently, Latvia has a Credit Register, which is under the auspices of the Bank of Latvia, and there are two private bodies - credit information offices - that offer relevant information (e.g. on debts to a service provider or the debts of an apartment and so on, and so on). Now, by incorporating this provision into us, we are imposing an obligation to request information from the existing two credit information offices. In turn, if they are 30 or 33 in time, then all these credit information offices will have to be asked for. And here I must remind and repeat again what Mr Smilten said: are we not bringing this whole situation to a sense of absurdity in this way? Will it not be one of the reasons for the President of Latvia to be able to refer this law back to the Saeima for re-reading? At the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, we also debated and discussed this issue very extensively, and representatives of the Bank of Latvia were present. And, to be honest, the further we heard different opinions, the less this question became clear. That is why we suspended the approval of this provision in connection with another law - the credit register law. Let us wait for the views of the ministries and just take a final decision. Consequently, I also call for this proposal to be rejected, which is essentially in line with the proposals made in the Credit Register Act, and for the ministries to be able to see how this system can continue to work and then, if necessary, for it to be incorporated into the next reading. I call on you to vote against this proposal from Mr Upeinieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U543	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U544	Yeah. This proposal has also been made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We have heard the views of all the parties involved, including the position of the Head of the Consumer Centre, who supports this proposal. The Commission relied on the Head of the Consumer Centre and also on the officials who prepared the proposal and the Commission supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U545	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 5, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U546	5. is the proposal from Member Igora Pimenova. And it is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U547	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U548	Dear Saeima! I am against the uncontrolled issuance of quick loans. People already in debt take new loans to meet basic needs and to clear other loans. But it is not just human suffering; it is one of the causes of a serious state problem. ‘ Latvian Creditors’ Association’ draws attention to the fact that before the crisis in 2007, the execution court at the courts was only 81 thousand for the total amount of debt 205 million lats. Currently, the number of enforcement cases against bailiffs is 431 thousand, the amount to be recovered from debtors of Latvian residents is EUR 5.58 billion. At the end of 2017, the total debt portfolio at out-of-court drivers reached one billion euros, thus the total debt burden of Latvian residents, located in recovery, is approximately 6.5 billion euros. The amount is comparable to the annual national budget. The residents of Latvia continue to be in debt, and every citizen whose account has been blocked for a long time enters the grey economic zone or leaves the country. The public budget loses taxes. The recent financial crisis was not the result of a wasteful policy conducted by the state, as often mentioned, but of private sector debt. At the moment, rising debt is a risk factor for a new crisis, with easy money being cut off. In the case where the amount of the credit is equal to or greater than one hundred minimum monthly salaries, the creditor shall be required to request and receive from the State Revenue Service a statement of the consumer’s income before the granting of the credit and then, before the granting of the credit, assess the consumer’s ability to repay the credit. One hundred minimum monthly salaries are 43 thousand euros. The average loan granted is about 300 euros. This is incomparably less than 43 thousand euros. Short-term, uncollateralised credit is provided easily. That's why it's called fast. I call, first of all, for this threshold to be reduced from 100 minimum monthly salaries to 100 euros. Secondly, it should be added that, in order to grant the credit, the creditor is obliged not only to request from the State Revenue Service a certificate on consumer income, but also from the State Social Insurance Agency and other tax administration institutions responsible for information about consumer income. I ask for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U549	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U550	Colleagues, I will talk about this proposal, not the next one, which is mine. Because these proposals are almost identical. It is only necessary to recognise that Mr Pimenova has prepared this proposal with a slightly higher quality than I do. I think that there are two basic problems with quick loans. One problem is that these interest payments are wildly high, which is why they are also referred to as wild loans. The second problem is that, when granting these loans, the solvency of those who borrow this money is not assessed. This applies in particular to small amounts, for example, up to EUR 100. Therefore, I really call on you to listen to what Mr Pimenova said (I will not repeat this argument, we have talked about it in the Commission), but to support this proposal. And if that happens, then I will withdraw my next one, because really this proposal is better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U551	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U552	Yes, we had a long debate on this, and the Members shared their views, and with little, little weight, this proposal was rejected. The Saeima should therefore now make a distinction on this proposal. This was unfortunately not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U553	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 2 and for - 19. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U554	Proposal 6 is very similar to the one previously supported and was not supported. Please reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U555	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U556	Colleagues! So that we do not reject such a good proposal, I call... Yes, we supported Mr Pimenova's proposal, which is identical, and I therefore withdrawn this one.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U557	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U558	Finally, Igor Pimenova's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission, is also a proposal by the Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U559	Members shall not object. ( Internouncing call.) However, Members want to debate if? Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U560	I thank you, President-in-Office, for allowing me, however, to speak in defence of this proposal and to state to you the reasons why I presented it. I allow Members to remember the cricket that developed at the very beginning of our term - autumn 2014 and February 2015 - regarding the introduction of the key principle in mortgage credit. The key principle allows the borrower, who is no longer able to meet the credit obligation, to transfer his mortgaged property to the bank, thus simply placing the residential key on the banker's table. In such a case, all the credit obligations are terminated and the creditor no longer owes any more to the bank. The resistance of commercial banks dealing with mortgage lending was severe. As a result, the law strengthened the compromise solution, i.e. the creditor who received the consumer’s credit claim is obliged to offer at least two different terms of the consumer’s credit agreement, one of which must be the key rule. This compromise could be called the legislator's joke if it were just amusing, but it is, in fact, hypocritical and economically pointless. Those who know how banking marketing works also know that the bank will find a hundred ways of deterring customers from applying the key principle. I propose that the key principle should become the only mortgage credit principle. It is often said that the key principle is introduced in order to simplify the insolvency process of private individuals and to make mortgage credit less risky for creditors. However, the exemption of creditors from debt is the only consequence of the key principle put in place. The main objective of the implementation of this principle is to introduce a new housing price regulation, which will lead to higher house prices leading to real prices, lower prices, even significantly lower prices. We all know that any price is the result of balancing demand and supply. This universal market mechanism is also active in mortgage lending. Housing is mostly purchased by borrowing and not by cash, therefore the lending price balances the real estate supply on the one hand and the banks' willingness to lend money against their collateral on the other. If the law allows the debtor’s liabilities to grow to the extent of all his property, which includes both real estate, loaned property, all other assets and income, the bank is prepared to offer a loan for all his possible money. In turn, the seller of the house, knowing that, raise the price. It increases the prices of real estate. It is clear that both housing sellers and banks have an interest in increasing the number of transactions and housing prices: that is their profits. However, the public, consumers have a different interest: the consumer wants the price of the house to be as close as possible to the cost of the house rather than the amount the lender is able to withdraw from the debtor's pockets. The build-up of mortgage credit not only increases the burden of debt and increases disasters, but also actually weakens the economy, because it withdraws money from other consumer markets, shifts investment into the construction sector and workers, promotes the blow-up of a price bubble across the economy and brings the crisis closer. All this has already happened, gentlemen! A fair, economically sound procedure is created by the introduction of the key principle. If the value of the property to be acquired is stipulated by law as sufficient collateral to extinguish the full liability of the creditor, the issuing of a risky credit above the value of the pledge and raising the price becomes risky. And so the seller will also be forced to lower the price. I suggest, however, that the key principle for mortgage lending be the only one on which all contractual terms in all banks would be based, not as happens now, when we are creating a kentatur, which allows some possibilities... one actually deletes the other... Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U561	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U562	Hello, colleagues! Today's such a long day... Although this proposal on the keys has been tabled in this draft law, although it was not at all a subject of it, I think it should be supported here, and the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy should work rather carefully to balance exactly these norms in the Consumer Rights Law. And although a similar proposal is also made in the insolvency law, I hope that the Legal Commission will manage as soon as possible so that we can work here in the Saeima with amendments to the insolvency law, where the idea itself is incorporated... So not just those who are now... on which we are talking, but above all, I think we should talk about those people who are in these insolvency difficulties... and it's already in another law. But the original principle, in my opinion, is to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U563	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U564	So, colleagues, by shortening what Mr. Pimenova said... It is a question of the key principle that has been put in place, an issue on which, as colleagues, we have already discussed in the past when it comes to previous amendments to the Consumer Protection Act. The decisions in question were also taken at that time. Mr Pimenov, the place for these proposals is the right one, but the time is not the right one. Because if we compare this bill with a row boat, a wooden boat, you're trying to put a sea container in that row boat right now. That boat will overturn and just sink! If there is a wish to stop this law from moving further, such proposals can be supported. But if there is a desire to continue to fight against quick loans and to limit greed, then it is desirable to vote 'no'. I assume that discussion about this in the Saeima is still necessary, but not at this time and in the specific law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U565	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U566	Colleagues! This proposal was not supported by the Commission. We listened to the opinion of the Bank of Latvia, other financiers, that such a proposal might give rise to a risk that contributions... First instalment for the reconstruction of your production facility or for the construction of a new production facility, or for the purchase of tractors or any other thing for the development of your business... interest rates will increase, the first contributions to these loans will increase. Secondly, let me remind you that you already have two ways - the standard contract path and the so-called key principle - when you take credit in a bank; you can also close it with the bank. Of course, there are interest rates much higher. Therefore, after hearing all these views, the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U567	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 35, for - 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U568	Therefore, colleagues, all the proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U569	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection". Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading is therefore supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U570	Let us wait until 11 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U571	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U572	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” (No 1140/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft law and prepared it for second reading. A total of four proposals were received. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U573	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U574	2. - the proposal from Member Armands Krauze, which was partly supported and included in the Commission 1. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U575	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U576	3. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U577	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U578	And finally 4. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra, who did not support the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U579	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U580	We have therefore examined all four proposals. I call on my fellow Members to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U581	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U582	Thank you for your support. We will wait until 11 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U583	Thank you. Proposals are due by 11 September of this year. On the agenda - Draft law amending the Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U584	Dear colleagues, Today, at second reading, we supported the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, which provide for the possibility for journalists to get acquainted with the criminal proceedings that have been terminated on the basis of non-rehabilitational circumstances. This amendment was drafted by the independent working group of the Ministry of Justice, the Working Party on Criminal Law, and it was a compromise option, a solution that would allow journalists to study materials of great public interest. The proposal was accompanied by a proposal to supplement the criminal law by a provision providing for responsibility for the illicit reproduction and dissemination of the information obtained (of course, if the journalist had been warned thereof). Why are such amendments necessary? When discussing how journalists could have access to information, the proposal to carry out some extensive copying work was not supported, but the solution was supported that journalists would have the opportunity to see all the material. And it is clear that there are materials in criminal matters that are also sensitive and should not be disclosed, as this could directly undermine important interests. Consequently, anyone who works with materials will be warned that it is prohibited to reproduce and distribute this information. And if a person who has been warned does not comply with the requirement, he will be able to be held liable. In order to consolidate all this in regulatory acts, a new Section 307.1 must be provided for in the Criminal Law. So the provision in question is included in the draft law, which I am reporting to you now. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U585	The Commission calls for support at first reading. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U586	So five days are waiting until 11 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U587	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 11 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U588	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Both this draft law and the next draft law aim to integrate judges of departments of land books into the court of general jurisdiction. There is much discussion about this initiative, including within the Court Policy sub-committee. I would like to point out that on 27 November last year, the Council for the Judiciary supported the integration of judges of Land Register departments in district (city) courts, and also the Legal Commission initially supported amendments to Civil Procedure Law as the first. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U589	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U590	Deadline for submission of proposals - 11 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U591	Thank you. Proposals are due by 11 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U592	Colleagues, I have already pointed out that this draft law has a similar objective. And this draft law, namely the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power”, has been examined and supported by the Legal Commission for its first reading. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U593	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U594	Deadline for submission of proposals - 11 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U595	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 11 September. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law on the Czech Game Law (No.1282/Lp12) until 10 September 2018. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals in the second reading of the draft law on Czech Games Law (No.1282/Lp12) until 10 September 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that Member Astrid Harju, Gaida Berzina, Jānis Upenieks, Edgars Putra and Hosama Abu Meri refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, Member Ivara Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Sergeja Mirska, Raimonda Rubika, Andra Morozova, Vladimira Nikonova, Igora Zuveva and Mihail Zemļinskas have received a request from the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs, on the action taken by the Minister for the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity payments. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U596	Hello, fellow Members, again! As you remember, for several months, we in the Saeima have been carrying out a monitoring process over decisions and actions taken by the Ministry of Economics regarding the components of compulsory procurement. As the Ministry of Economy tried to avoid and deny, it has been demonstrated that this system is not in the interest of the State or society and is, in many cases, illegal. The activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs raised legitimate concerns that they were carried out not in the public interest but in the interest of small groups, groups of persons. Criminal proceedings have already been initiated and, as a result, our application has been accepted by the Constitutional Court. But what did the Ministry of Economics do? When all these facts were collected and presented, and when a concrete action plan was presented to it, how could it end, the Ministry of Economics formed a working group which worked for three months instead of assessing and starting to act on these proposals. This working group produced a report in which the economic assessment is misleading, false, incomplete, even false. Go on. There is no calculation of the outcome of these proposals, there is no calculation of the budgetary impact. There is no legal assessment of the existing system. Proposals proposed by the working group of the Ministry of Economic Affairs... In fact, all these proposals presented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs as working group proposals have not been supported by the working group at all. It has not voted for them at all. More! Many of the members of this working group have objected in principle to these proposals, and I essentially agree with them. And that is why we are addressing the Ministry of Economics, please explain all the things that the Ministry has written there. Because there are very amusing things. Somehow, let us say, about the tax on subsidised electricity. Colleagues, do you know that, in fact, such a proposal will not reduce but increase the burden of compulsory procurement? Because that's the way in which the Ministry of Economics... The regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have now been established... it is a burden not for producers, but for us. Because it is one of the expenditure items that we will have to compensate producers so that they do not reduce their income. And there are many such interesting things. We are now asking for the Ministry of Economics to give its answers on all these matters. We very much hope for a coherent, reasoned discussion and we hope that the chairman of the Commission will ensure that the answers to these questions are submitted in good time so that we do not need to hold this committee every day until this Saeima is over. We hope that we can deal with these issues. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U597	The request shall be addressed to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. However, I must also inform you about the questions that have been raised by Members. The questions submitted on 4 September this year. Members Zarins, Morozovs, Potapkins, Raimonds Rubiks and Orlovs submitted a question to the Minister for Economics, Arvils Aseraden, about your actions and public statements regarding the assessment of the Ministry of Economics' actions in the implementation of the granting of subsidised electricity permits. Members Zarins, Morozovs, Potapkins, Raimonds Rubiks and Orlovs submitted a question to the Minister of Economics “On the report on the cancellation of the mandatory electricity procurement payment system set up by the Cabinet Order of 24 April 2018 No.172 and managed by EM.” Members have indicated that the issues are urgent and as urgent as they have been handed over to the Minister and issued to all Members of the Saeima. Today, a letter from the Minister of Economics has been received, in which the Minister informs us that due to a pre-planned timetable it will not be possible to arrive today to reply. As a result, replies to Members' questions will not be given today. Members Zarins, Tretjaka, Nikonovs, Zujevs and Zemļinski submitted the question “On adequate operational security of the national health insurance system”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U598	We are well aware of how we have gone back to the introduction of eHealth. This health insurance system also requires adequate security. And that is why we ask the Minister for Health in good time to tell her how she really intends to implement the division of these patients, the division of these citizens into one basket and another basket, how actually the Ministry of Health will be able to implement it. Does the Ministry of Health have any reason to believe how this will happen at all? And that it will have to be implemented? Because the public debate shows that a great deal of discovery for the Minister of Health is what she has actually prepared and what this system will look like as it can have. In order to prevent the current disaster in good time, we ask the health ministers to provide answers to these questions. We very much hope that the Ministry of Health will be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U599	We put the question to the Minister for Health for a reply. Members Zarins, Tretjaka, Nikonovs, Zujevs and Jakimovs have tabled a question on the avoidance of replying to questions related to the OIC Working Group report. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. - Oh, my God. A minute's time for motivation. Please, quickly!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U600	When this legendary report from the OIC Working Group was presented, everyone criticised it, and Mr Asheraden said: "If someone has a better proposal, please submit it to the Cabinet. It will support it." Such a proposal was submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers. What did the Cabinet decide? The Cabinet decided to adopt the report without discussion and not only to support this proposal, but even not to discuss it. Together with this proposal, we also asked the Prime Minister a whole series of questions, how, on the basis of such a report, whose quality is obviously questionable, is tending and creates a completely misconception or does not at all give an idea of what is actually being done... We asked a number of questions to the Prime Minister, to which he has not been able to answer for a month. So now we put them back through Parliament. We very much hope that the Prime Minister will be able to respond to them in meaningful and substantive terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U601	The question is referred to the Prime Minister. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Janis Vucanas.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U602	Dear colleagues from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Sub-Commission! A meeting of the Commission at 15.20 a.m. in the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U603	Thank you. Name to a member of the Saeima Secretary - to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U604	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Hosams Abu Meri, Jānis Adamsons, Boriss Cilevičs, Ints Dālderis, Rihards Kols, Līga Kozlovska, Varis Krūmiņš, Romanas Mežeckis... is, Sergey Potapkins, Renārs Putniņš, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs and Viktors Valainis... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-06-PT12-491-U605	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
