ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take place in Saeima's meeting room so that we can start the sitting on 29 November 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Vidzeme district court Daiņas Kļaviņš from the office of a judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Member Inese Voika informs that she has withdrawn her signature to the draft law “Amendment to the law “On holidays, memories and famous days””, therefore this draft law is excluded from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks for changes to be made and for the draft law Amending the Insurance and Reinsurance Act to be included on the agenda of the sittings. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Owners of Land Vehicles” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Budgets and... That's it, thank you. Please change the agenda that has been examined as soon as possible to the Secretariat. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Public Service Providers to be on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Public Private Partnership to be put on the agenda for the meetings. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to Copyright” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management to be on the agenda for the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Law on Arms Movements” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Prime Minister asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the Prime Minister asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Professions and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on budgetary and financial management presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For granting unpaid leave to Member Edmunds Teirumnieks from 4 to 7 December this year. Honourable Members! The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Edmunds Teirumnieks requesting unpaid leave from 4 to 7 December of this year. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting to grant unpaid leave to Member Edmunds Teirums from 4 to 7 December this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Vidzeme district court Daiņas Kļaviņš from the position of judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U2	Good morning, colleagues! On 23 October, the Council for the Judiciary, on the basis of the norms included in Article 81 of the Law “On Judicial Power” and Article 82 “Disruption of a Judge from the Position”, decided to propose to the Saeima to dismiss the judge Daini Pēteris Kļaviņa from the post due to health condition. At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 November, the draft decision “On the dismissal of the judge of Vidzeme district court Daiņa Pēteris Klaviņš from the office of a judge” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite the judge of Vidzeme district court Daini Pēteris Kļaviņa to be released from office of a judge due to health condition from January 2, 2019. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Dismissal of the judge of Vidzeme district court Daiņa Pēteris Klaviņš from the office of judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to make changes to the agenda of the meeting and to consider draft law “Amendment to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. On the agenda - processing Members' requests Requests received by Members’. The Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from Member Ivars Zariņa, Lubova Švecova, Valeria Agešina, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Krišāna, Arthur Rubika, Inga Golbergas, Edgars Kucina, Ivana Ribakova, Minister for Economic Affairs, “On the legality and legality of subsidised state aid schemes for electricity implemented by the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics”. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U4	Hello, colleagues! This is not the first request for a State aid scheme for OIC or subsidised electricity and its aspects of the rule of law. Unfortunately, so far, the whole argument we have received from the Ministry of Economics has been similar to Vinnie Pukas and Siventiiņš when they stand under the large tree in which bees live with honey. He says to Vinnie Puuk: “Winnie Puuk, imagine if that tree falls down and falls on us?” Winnie Poeko answers: “A think you don’t agree.” At some this level, there has been this argument from the Ministry of Economics so far. At such an imaginary level. Then we need to be like the Swing... Who is at risk: if you touch this tree, it will fall upon you, there will be hundreds of millions... the legal proceedings. But as soon as they ask for this legal argument, the conclusion that... Do you really... How is it... where is the reason... It turns out there's no one at all. Or like a Vinnie Poe to which... When trying to show obvious facts about the real problems of the system of subsidised electricity support, you are offered to imagine that this is not the case. Consider an example. Let us take a decision from the European Commission in which... coordinating this support system, in which the European Commission... It is clearly stated that the State of Latvia has violated the third paragraph of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely that it has implemented this aid without aligning it with the European Commission. The legal provisions of the European Union make it very clear that such aid is unlawful in such a case. The last request was... it is also forced to be recognised by the Ministry of Economics.... recognise also that unlawful aid is not allowed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Then the question is: why is aid still being granted to a number of economic operators, where this aid is not harmonised at all? For example, TEC-2. For example, those economic operators to whom it is provided in accordance with the European... Article 52 of the Electricity Market Act. It is a whole range of economic operators, and millions are paid there. The Ministry of Economy is clearly aware that it is illegal and that they cannot do so. But they do. Another issue that is very interesting. What, then, is really the aid scheme that is coordinated with the European Commission? Does the Ministry of Economics really implement this scheme, or is there really any other? Because the European Commission has made it very clear in its decision that this aid scheme can be compatible with Union law and compatible with the common market of the European Union only if overcompensation is avoided. But the Ministry of Economy itself has recognised in its working group that no overcompensation has been eliminated. It is natural that, despite all these very serious aspects of the rule of law, no evaluation of the rule of law has been carried out. The Task Force has not worked on this at all. There was no such task for the task force at all. And that is what we ask in this request. And we hope that we will finally get clear answers to all these questions. Thank you, colleagues. I invite you to make a productive job!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U5	Thank you. Consequently, in accordance with the law, the request is submitted to the Commission. On the agenda - Proposals for the continuation of the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima. On the agenda - draft law “On disposal of real estate for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass””. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Legal Commission proposes to continue 12. The review of the draft law “On disposal of real estate for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U6	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 21 November, the Legal Commission examined 12. No. of draft laws not reviewed at the Saeima “On disposal of real estate for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass”” ( No. 1187/Lp12). The essence of the draft law is to be disposed of for the needs of society – for the implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” – real estate “ Vairas” in Ķekava municipality. The draft law provides that the immovable property shall be disposed of in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on the Disposal of Real Estate required for the needs of the Company and must be entered in the land register on the name of the State in the person of the Ministry of Transport. The Commission for Legal Affairs decided to ask 13. Continue reading this bill from the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, on the basis of Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, please continue to examine the draft law. 13 In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the review of the draft law “On the disposal of real estate for public needs – the implementation of the state major road project E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” 13. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members have objections, and also 13. In the Saeima, will it be the commission responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U8	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 4 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U9	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 4 December 2018. On the agenda, draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Atis Zakaitistov is Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U10	Hello, colleagues! We're taking over 12. The family heritage. This heritage is linked to our obligations under Directive (EU) 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council. The purpose of the insurance and reinsurance distribution law is to protect consumers so that no insurance that they do not need is measured. This leads to some form of consolidation and we will have to decide on it. This, of course, concerns the Latvian market, and we will talk about it as well. Please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the continuation of the examination of the draft law on insurance and reinsurance distribution 13. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members have objections, and also 13. Is it a commission in the family? I can't hear any objections. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U12	13 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U13	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act”. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Atis Zakaitistov is Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U14	This is a related issue. It will determine the form of insurance to be provided before the conclusion of the contract. I ask you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U15	Thank you. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the examination of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance 13. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members have objections, if any. 13 Would it be a commission in the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U16	13 December 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U17	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 December 2018. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on compulsory insurance of civil liability of land vehicle owners”. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Land Vehicle Owners” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U18	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this draft law. This is mainly due to the need to transpose the European Union directive. It also requires clarification... clarification and improvement of existing regulation, exclusion of some obsolete terms, as well as new regulation on certain issues, the most important of which is the imposition of regressive requirements. This is likely to be a more serious debate at second reading. In general, I call on colleagues to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Land Vehicle Owners” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Are Members objected if it remains the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U20	The deadline for submitting proposals is five days.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U21	So five days. December 4, this year, huh? Thank you. There are no other proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is 4 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to law “On North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve””. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Discussion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve”” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U22	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the law “On North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve”. The draft law was examined by the Commission. The draft law clarifies outdated, incomplete norms. The Commission recommends supporting the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U23	We will vote in favour of the further examination 13. In the family. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U24	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 6 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U25	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law”. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Daniel Pavluts, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U26	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, colleagues! We are working on a bill that is left behind from the previous parliamentary term. It is a draft law presented by the government, which we really think is necessary. Its essence is linked to the fact that... you probably know that there are quite a lot of unsubstantiated issues in the field of construction in Latvia. It is difficult to reconcile construction projects. For a long time we are lagging behind other countries in terms of competitiveness on this issue, and one way to deal with this is to put in place a construction information system. This draft law provides that in the future it will be possible to submit, harmonise and make decisions regarding construction plans only electronically in the construction information system. After the entry into force date on which we will, of course, have to discuss, because on 1 January we will no longer get it, the new ideas presented will be compatible in full electronic form. Certain municipalities will, of course, need to help to digitise construction plans documents. Unfortunately, there is still no construction information system in Riga. That's what we've been discussing in the Commission. But we need a bill. We invite you to see the draft law at first reading and to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to Construction Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members opposed if that commission is also responsible for the draft law. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U28	The Commission proposes a two-week deadline of 13 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U29	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 December this year. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Law on the movement of fertilisers. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers”. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U30	Hello, colleagues! We have examined 12 in the Commission. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers” presented at the Saeima and we have supported further examination 13. In the family. In short, this draft law provides for more stringent procedures, monitoring the movement of nitrates. As you know, nitrates can be not only fertilisers but also explosive substances. On the basis of Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission asks 13. Continue examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers”.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members opposed if that commission remains responsible for the draft law in question. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U32	6 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U33	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 6 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” submitted to the Saeima. Member Ivars Zarins is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U34	Colleagues! As you have noticed, the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission is working productively on the legacy of the previous Saeima, and on the agenda we are actually offering a whole set of legislative proposals. Together with this draft law, we propose to consider three more draft laws, which are on the same subject - the draft laws prepared by the Ministry of Economics. Being in this bill... It is necessary to take over the transposition into national law of the requirements of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in public procurement. What does that mean? This implies that the supplier will have a free choice of how to offer an invoice, whether in paper or electronic form. In turn, the customer will be obliged to accept the supplier's invoices regardless of their form. To align, optimize and reduce the circulation of electronic invoices... The draft law also provides for certain standards for electronic invoicing to be developed and agreed upon. That is the essence of all these further four draft laws in general. The Commission calls for further consideration of this draft law and support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the draft law will continue to look at 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members objected if that commission remains responsible for the draft law as well. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U36	13 December
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U37	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement”. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement” submitted to the Saeima. Member Ivars Zarins is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U38	Colleagues! This is the second draft law in this legislative package - with the same motivation and reasoning. The Commission has supported this and is asking you to support its further examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U39	Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members not object to the fact that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U40	13 December
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U41	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 13 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Law”. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers’ Procurement Law” submitted to the Saeima. Member Ivars Zarins is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U42	Colleagues! As I said, this is one of the same draft laws - in this legislative package, with the same reasoning and motivation. The Commission has supported and calls on you to support further consideration of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U43	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Service Providers 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision was taken - the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this, as in previous cases, was the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U44	13 December
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U45	The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership”. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership” submitted to the Saeima. Member Ivars Zarins is on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U46	Colleagues! This is the last of the draft laws in this legislative package - with the same motivation and nature. This has been supported by the Commission for further examination. I invite you to support it and to continue working on this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U47	Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members not object to the fact that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? No one shall raise objections. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U48	13 December
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U49	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 13 December this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U50	Good morning, dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” (No. 53/Lp13) and ask for it also to be taken over 13. The Saeima supported today at first reading. The aim of the draft law is to establish the implementation of the system of remuneration of judges with 1 January 2019, which would ensure maintenance of the actual value of remuneration of judges, therefore financial security... and independence... i.e. the principles of independent remuneration. The formal necessity is therefore also to amend the law, to provide for a new procedure, because in 2017 the Constitutional Court recognised that the existing system of remuneration of judges does not comply with the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. In order to develop such a remuneration model, a working group led by the State Chancellery was set up. It analysed the experience of existing systems as well as other countries. Taking into account the principle of balance between the remuneration of the various powers, these amendments were prepared. The most important changes that are intended to amend the Law on the Remuneration of State and Local Government Institutions and Employees would be the following: The first case is to change the principle of monthly salary for elected, approved and appointed officials of the Saeima, members of the Saeima and municipal councils. This principle would take into account both the month-on-month increase in the average gross wages of economic workers over the last year, in the percentage of actual prices, and the rate of inflation, which is a new formula. The other thing. It is foreseen that this remuneration principle could be revised every four years. This is necessary in cases where different situations can be corrected. We see that the economy will no longer develop as well as the remuneration that has increased so far. There are several other things. For example, in the case of the FCMC, the remuneration of the SPRK's control body would take account not of the average remuneration in the economy, but rather of the average remuneration in the sector. And there is another important thing that would be changed at the same time as the basic monthly salary for judges and prosecutors. In particular, the system of bonuses would be changed by providing that judges and prosecutors after six years of service would have a five-percent supplement from the monthly salary, and after 10 years of service – a 10 per cent supplement from the monthly salary. A bigger increase would be the basic salary, smaller bonuses therefore... compared to the existing system. I call on Members of the Saeima to take over this bill and to support it today at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U51	Thank you. Colleagues, first we will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law 13. In the Saeima and afterwards - about the recognition of the bill as urgent. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. And the Commission has asked for the said draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Whether Members have objections to the Commission being responsible for this draft law. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals and a date for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U52	The deadline for submitting the proposals shall be 5 p.m. on 30 November this year and the second reading on 6 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U53	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 17.00 on 30 November this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 6 December this year. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Reizer. Next bill. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Arms Movement”. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis. In accordance with Article 39 of the parliamentary roll, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Law on the Movement of Arms” submitted to the Saeima 13. In the family. Member Ainars Latkovskis on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U54	Yesterday, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption decided at its meeting to continue its examination of 12. Former so-called ‘Prime Minister’ of the so-called ‘Donetsk People's Republic’. This is a completely new law, the main aim of which is to transpose the European directive into Latvian national laws and regulations. The directive and the draft law have been drawn up in the light of experience and mistakes in relation to terrorists in the European Union. But when the commission listened to the opinions of non-governmental organisations representing the interests of hunters and the Latvian Shooting Federation and other non-governmental organisations in its meeting, it was found that there are several issues. However, everyone supported the need for the new Saeima to work with the new law. On behalf of the Commission, I call for further consideration of the draft law. 13 In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on the movement of weapons 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The parliament was responsible for the draft law by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Whether Members have objections to the Commission being responsible for the draft law in question. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U56	13 December
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U57	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 13 December this year. Dear colleagues, Members Rihards Kols, Aleksandrs Kirštein, Inguna Ribena, Ritvars Jansons, Jānis Dombrava, Raivis Dzintars and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima “The Resolution of the Saeima “On the Non-Party to the UN Global Pact on Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration”. The inclusion on the agenda may be referred to as 'yes' and 'no' by one Member. Daniel Pavluts, Member, has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U58	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the resolution on 'No accession to the UN Global Pact on Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration', I would like to say the following: The first thing we need to know and be aware of in relation to this document - it is a declaratory text of a recommending nature - has been fully developed. It must be admitted that, therefore, it is probably burdensome for people to get acquainted with its content, to evaluate it. And perhaps, in such an advanced document, you can find different points of catch to talk about issues that seem important or of concern to someone. What I can agree with is that this document and migration issues in general are not sufficiently presented and explained to Latvian society. If we remember a very recent pre-election debate, we must admit, colleagues, that we have largely avoided migration issues as such a hot potatoes. We have not really discussed these issues enough, we have not explained them, we have not discussed why Latvia does not have its own clearly defined migration policy, because these are issues that we avoid. When it comes to these statements in the text of the resolution, however, I cannot really agree that the Pact would, for example, require human rights to migrate. A migrant is entitled to human rights, as does any other person - that is what this pact tells us. There are also many other issues and concerns mentioned in the proposed text of the resolution. We do not really see the justification for this pact prepared by the UN. There are a number of countries that have joined it, and that is the choice of each government. Development/About! calls on the government to allow it to decide on this issue, on this recommended, non-binding, declaration... and we believe that this issue cannot be decided by the Saeima and that it must be decided by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U59	“A Member has applied to speak about” Rihards Kols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U60	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, A little rejoinder about what Mr Pavluta said right now. There is a “technical” government... I think that then you too should state that we are moving ahead with the national budget that has already been prepared, we accept, do not hesitate... because, however, the signal was also from the current Prime Minister, who fulfilled his duties... a statement that it will not take political decisions. This is an international political decision - to make international commitments. But a little bit about this global pact. It was defined on 30 July this year, and already at the Intergovernmental Conference in Marrakech on 10 December, the UN Member States will have to decide whether to support it or not. This power in Latvia is in the hands of the Foreign Minister, who has already said that he intends to join this pact. Within five months from the adoption of the text, the agreement has not been translated into Latvian to enable citizens to get acquainted with it. And let's try to figure out what the pact is. Let me start with this (I am familiar with this pact) that the so-called UN Pact on Migration has enough good proposals and ideas on how to deal with the migration problems that have hit us, and on how we should cooperate at transnational level in this context. It is true that the Pact states that external borders need to be strengthened, that the causes of migration need to be combated rather than the consequences or only the symptoms of organised crime, human trafficking, as well as the Pact indicates that migration is a cross-border process and will always involve several countries of origin, transit and destination... It is as if the principle of national sovereignty in the formulation of migration policy has been highlighted. If it were the only thing that was provided for in this pact, there would be no objection. On the contrary, it incorporates a number of principles that we have previously advocated and on which we have insisted... that such an approach should be implemented at European Union level. And yet the Pact is an international agreement (even if it is not legally binding) on migration regulation mechanisms. Those who are familiar with the full content of the UN Pact on Migration will have noticed a number of things that are relatively interesting, such as the creation of new definitions by bringing together, within a single term, the terms'refugee','migrant' and 'illegal immigrants', which have previously distinguished statuss. This denies substantial differences between these statuses; this is in direct contradiction with international and national rules. International migration is included in the human rights as a whole, although it is known that something fundamentally different is mentioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The role of national states is now being reduced at a symbolic level so that it can be put into practice later. All this happens on the background of a well-known opinion to the public. Migration is one of the topics where the majority of society in Latvia has a very negative opinion. We can discuss the reasons for this position, its validity, but disregarding what our citizens think would not be fair. But the Pact is not already legally binding. Indeed, even in this text of the Pact, it is a declaration of good will about the willingness to cooperate, a political declaration in fact. At the same time, this pact points to a common commitment to work on these principles and policies, revitalising them into national legislation and practice. With accession, we declare our commitment to the policies referred to therein; we agree with everything mentioned therein. Also, the contentious, unnegotiated issues. Then I have to ask: do we really agree with everything in this pact? Are we really determined to work in all these directions, to work on all these objectives, regardless of what the current migration policy of Latvia is? Are we, Latvia, making public a real commitment or simply joining something for the sake of my dear peace? While legally non-binding, this document nevertheless points to attitudes, intentions and plans. If all the measures mentioned in the document are not in our plans... And if they were to be, they would still have to be discussed in the Saeima, anywhere else. Are we really ready to actually deceive the international community? I think that what we say as a state is important. That we are saying only what we think, and that we are determined to do only what we really do. I hope we can't prove the opposite. And indeed, if we put this draft decision on the agenda today, we can debate it in the Saeima, we can debate it. And then let the Saeima vote... expressing its attitude by a majority of votes! And it is clear that we do not ask the Cabinet not to join this pact. We are calling for us not to join. And then, Mr. Pavļuta, the Cabinet of Ministers will weigh this decision in a parliamentary republic and decide at the Tuesday meeting of the Cabinet! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U61	Thank you. So one Member has spoken for, one against. Colleagues! We must vote in favour of including this draft decision of the Saeima on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the inclusion of the draft decision of the Saeima “The Saeima Resolution on Non-Participation with the UN Global Pact on Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 43, for - 2. The agenda is therefore being amended. The draft decision of the Saeima shall be placed on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U62	Good morning, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! Draft Act “Amendments to Copyright Law” (No. 22/Lp13) is the first draft law that has been adopted as a draft law promoted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Saeima, which we are looking at today at first reading. As stated in the Opinion, the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law” has three objectives. The first of these objectives is to take over the so-called Marrakesh Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 September 2017. It is a directive on certain permitted uses of certain specific works protected by copyright and related rights for the benefit of persons who are blind, visually impaired or unable to read for other reasons. That Directive, the Marrakesh Directive, has amended the so-called Information Society Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The second aim of this draft law is to clarify one specific point in the Information Society Directive, which was already adopted on 22 May 2001. This is a point which talks about the envisaged general opt-out for those persons who are visually impaired or unable to read for other reasons. And the third purpose of this draft law is to clarify the terminology of the Copyright Act by trying to avoid words such as ‘disability’ and similar. Given that the Marrakesh Directive had to be transposed by the Member States by 11 October of this year, the draft law is intended to speed up the entry into force of the law. In particular, the law would enter into force on the day following its adoption. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science discussed this draft law yesterday and decided to support both the draft law and urgency. My colleagues from the Committee on Education, Culture and Science asked me not to submit proposals at second reading, which would not be directly related to the substance of the proposed amendments, given that Latvia is already a little late in transposing this directive. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U63	Thank you. So we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 88, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U64	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U65	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U66	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science proposes that the deadline for the second reading be set at 4 December of this year, the consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 6 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U67	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 4 December of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 6 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U68	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission examined draft law prepared by the Ministry of Health and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. This draft law provides for the placing under control of five new psychoactive substances which have been subject to a temporary ban for a period of up to 12 months by a decision of the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in Latvia. Information from the European Early Warning System shows that these substances are already distributed in Sweden and Poland and should therefore be included as a preventive measure in this law. All these new psychoactive substances are dangerous to public health and safety, will mean ruined fate and ruined families. These five new substances are 3,4-methylenedioxy-U-47700, hexobarbital, 4-anilinopiperidine, N-phenethyl-4-piperidinone and 4-anilino-N-phenethylpiperidine. Given that the temporary ban on one of these substances expires in January next year, the Legal Commission both supported the draft law at first reading and asked for its urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U69	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U70	Thank you. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U71	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U72	Deadline for submission of proposals - 3 December. And the final reading is at the Saeima sitting on 6 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U73	Thank you. Time limit for the submission of proposals - 3 December of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 6 December of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U74	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! We have a special situation in the country right now. A new government has not yet been established, and it is therefore already clear that it will not be possible to prepare the draft budget for next year in good time and to adopt it with effect from 1 January. Such situations have occurred in Latvia twice - in 1999 and 2003. The current framework provides for the activation of the temporary budget in such a case. The principles that have been in place so far - and this regulation must be said to be quite old - require the Minister of Finance to have the power to approve public expenditure, but there are also a number of restrictions. The current framework provides that budgetary expenditure may not exceed one twelfth of the budget of the previous year on a monthly basis. New measures cannot be launched, but only the implementation of existing measures is ensured. We must also ensure our membership of the European Union through contributions, as well as financed by the European Union and other foreign countries... implementation of projects financed by foreign instruments. In carrying out an analysis of possible defects in starting up such a regulation, we see that there are a number of issues that would create problems. For example, it would not be possible to enforce the existing legislation on pensions, benefits and remuneration in the following year. The distribution of the revenue from the special budget for social insurance among the beneficiary groups would not be determined. We update the contingent every year, and we also adjust the forecasts, so we also adjust the budget breakdown. Neither should the relations between the state and municipalities be agreed, establishing the distribution of personal income tax between the state budget and municipal budgets, as well as borrowing opportunities for municipalities to implement projects financed by the European Union and other projects initiated. Nor would the special grant be allocated to municipalities. In this case, the possibilities of execution of judgments of the Constitutional Court, for example, on remuneration of judges and prosecutors, as well as on cancellation of extended normal working time for medical persons, would also be limited. A number of other things too... For example, in the context of the education reform, targeted grants to municipalities to provide higher educators' salaries or pay from September are being increased. Accordingly, if only a twelfth were in force, teachers would have a lower salary in January than in December. Finally, the President's remuneration would not have been fixed either. Our President would be free of charge in January. In order to address these and other proposals that we have examined in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, it is planned to change this procedure by amending Article 15 of the law accordingly, with the provision that one twelfth of the previous year's budget would not be taken into account in the case of a temporary budget, but would be taken into account in the medium term. This would in fact ensure the fulfilment of the functions and obligations of the State, as well as the ongoing budgetary policies and measures until the entry into force of the annual state budget law. I ask you, my fellow Members, to support this draft law, which also makes it urgent, so that these amendments can enter into force already on 1 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U75	Thank you. The Commission therefore calls for urgent action to be taken on the draft law. Members do not want to debate urgency, but obviously in the debate on the substance of the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law on budgetary and financial management as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U76	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Article 15 of the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management provides for a solution in cases of delays in the adoption of the annual budget. In particular, it states that monthly expenditure does not exceed one twelfth of the previous year's appropriations, but it does not address a number of aspects - targeted grants to municipalities, reforms in the field of education... On 1 September this year, the remuneration of teachers has been increased, and the remuneration of teachers at pre-school institutions is financed from the municipal budget... So that the socially vulnerable part of society - pensioners - does not get a lower pension in January than in December... Re-allocation of grant funding... and the granting of loans to municipalities for the implementation of European Union projects... in order not to create breaks in the foundation learn to ensure the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Court on remuneration of judges and prosecutors and cancellation of the extended normal working time for medical practitioners. The public has wanted to see a different kind of policy. We must not deceive society. KPV LV will not play with fear of society. People have earned their money, and they must have a sense of security. Please support the amendment to use the medium-term budgetary framework for the one-month expenditure allocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U77	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U78	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, With these amendments, in the next year's budget, we will provide more salaries for judges and prosecutors, perhaps with more salient salaries for educators, and with more salient pensions. As you well know, there are a number of other outstanding issues in the country. The outgoing government has promised a great deal for those working in the healthcare system, for those working in the home system, and for many others. As we know, particularly severe, I would even say - critical, the situation has arisen with the Emergency Medical Service. Unfortunately, the outgoing government has also cleared the so-called fiscal space of next year. Yesterday, representatives of the Ministry of Finance told members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) that Latvia has already received a warning from the European Commission that any additional issue without fiscal security without specifying additional sources of revenue is threatening to enter the rather real red list, in which case the European Commission will review its attitude towards Latvia and will require a reduction of budget expenditure of at least EUR 300 million. And yet, my fellow Members, there is a real opportunity to help, if not all, at least workers of the Emergency Medical Service in this context. You are all aware of this problem, your party representatives or you have personally met with NMPD management and doctors, you have promised to find a solution. You've promised... We have found this solution and now offer it for consideration. How can you do that? The outgoing government has not noticed one rather small but important part. The draft medium-term budgetary plan agreed with the European Commission is based on the assumption that the next year's gross domestic product growth will be three per cent. However, according to the latest forecasts published by the European Commission in November, GDP growth is projected to be 3.2 percent next year. This forecast means that it is possible to plan additional revenue in the next year's budget, according to my estimates, at least EUR 16 million. I am sure that the European Commission will agree to a review next year... the medium-term draft budget in line with the European Commission's own latest forecasts. This gives us the opportunity to increase the salary of the Emergency Medical Service by 20 per cent next year, in line with the promises made by virtually all parties. It will put a stop to the crisis in this area and will provide urgent medical assistance to all Latvian citizens. In the coming days, we will present concrete legislative proposals on how to do so. And I hope that all Members will support and take into account what they have promised themselves to the staff of the medical system rather than any other consideration. Thank you in advance. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U79	Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U80	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, Today, at 11.00, the meeting of the Social and Labour Commission will be convened, where we will look at this painful issue - how to solve the problem in health care. And if a solution is proposed, at least I hope that the Commission will prepare a request for the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to support our proposal and help at least one part. The reasons are explained to you. I hope that all members of the Social and Labour Commission will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U81	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U82	Hello, colleagues! In my opinion, this proposed law, as Mrs Reizniece-Ozola has already said, addresses quite a number of problems that can be expected if we do not accept such an amendment. I would like to talk today about those issues that... at least one question, which is also waiting for a solution... and has been waiting for a solution for a year. And now we're in such a situation that... from January 1st, that's the situation... there will be, I would say, such a rather big crisis. Maybe it's nothing like that... on all this background is nothing big, but still important... It's Candava boarding school. This boarding school exists until 1 January. More than 300 children are enrolled in this boarding school. Last year, when looking at the budget, a solution was adopted for the year - until a solution for the reorganisation of this school is found. No solution was found during the year, but the budget for this school is until 31 December. And if there's no solution further, then the municipality of Kandava City Council... it is not possible to maintain this school - and that should simply be eliminated. I have received letters from the parents of nearly 300 school students asking me to deal with this problem, so today I am addressing Members of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science directly. In the previous parliamentary term, this commission even held a meeting of the meeting of the meeting to this particular institution, the particular school, where it became familiar with the situation, and a commitment was made to find a solution, to propose a draft reorganisation, but this has not been done until today. And the school lives in the expectations of a new government that can solve this problem. But this is already the case today that, unfortunately, without Parliament's involvement, this school will have to be abolished. And there are, unfortunately, no solutions for where these children will remain. So I call on the Commission for Education, Culture and Science in the near future... I know you have also been sent these letters... to examine this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U83	Thank you. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U84	Hello, colleagues! The Minister of Finance did not mention another commitment made to Latvia five years ago. In particular, a allowance is provided for employees working in the Ministry of the Interior and the Prison Administration. That's about five years of service. Every five years of service is entitled to benefits. We believe that it is very important to fulfil these commitments. And yesterday, at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the Ministry of Finance gave assurances that these amendments to the law would allow these obligations arising from Section 25, Paragraph Four of the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions to be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U85	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U86	Colleagues! I would like to comment a little on the views expressed about the fact that this government has laid down a fiscal space, as well as yesterday's publicly unspeaked information from the Board of Fiscal Discipline that it seems that the government has undertaken a large amount of expenditure commitment, which lacks sufficient coverage of resources in national budgetary plans, which could lead to a difficult choice in the preparation of the budget for 2019, a possible increase in taxes and yet all of cataclysm. I contacted Mr Plata yesterday on this opinion of the Fiscal Discipline Council, and Mr Plata to me... Thank you to him, apologies for being misinterpreted about what was decided at the meeting of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. The other thing. On fiscal space. We informed the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission yesterday about the current fiscal space available, what the overall budgetary situation is, and again we confirmed that the budgetary situation is stable. In the European Commission, the budgetary plan has been presented for a fixed policy and has been found appropriate by the European Commission. We have also presented the work that has been done so far by giving the new government the opportunity to choose how to use the funds that have already been identified for the third time as a result of the expenditure review. There have been expenditure reviews, which allow for savings of tens of millions. A fiscal margin has been set up, there are contingency funds, appropriations are also provided for reserves and contributions to the various measures to combat the shadow economy. At the same time, what I would also like to call for now, pending the creation of a new government, is that I call on my colleagues in the Saeima to be responsible. And if you come with a proposal that provides for additional items next year, then put forward real proposals to reduce expenditure or increase revenue. Fiscally responsible budget is one of our priorities. It is important to maintain this, because it is a prerequisite both for us to be a member of the euro area and of the European Union and for us to hold high sovereign credit ratings. We still have a relatively high external debt. To refinance it, we need a good credit rating. That is why I call for responsibility. And at this point too, with huge political suggestions, how we would all be satisfied, of course, if you think you will not be in the next government. But I really call on you to be responsible and now to support the solution that is proposed so that we do not reduce funding for educators, pensioners... and in a number of other areas... but, on the other hand, of course, to respect a certain frame of reference within the framework of the measures already foreseen in the medium-term budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U87	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U88	Hello! In view of the fact that it has just been said from this troupe that we should think about a Latvian credit rating, I would like to remind the honorable Minister of Finance - "technical" - that it would also help maintain the credit rating if, for example, false news were not disseminated, for example, with regard to the SWIFT system, that it has actually ranked Latvia on the list of high-risk countries and so on. Restricting these false messages... dissemination by the ‘technical’ government would also be a step towards maintaining a credit rating at an adequate level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U89	I closed the debate. Mrs Reizniece, on behalf of the Commission, is something to be added after the debate? So it's not. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “three years!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U90	We propose that the deadline for the submission of tenders be 12 noon... Monday, that is, 3 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U91	So, 3 December... by 12 noon? Excuse me, again!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U92	December 3, 12 noon.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U93	And the timing of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U94	December 6th
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U95	December 6th There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for tabling proposals - 3 December at 12.00 this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 6 December this year. Thank you. Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, Members Zarins, Zakaistovs, Paviluts, Pabriks and Augulis have asked the Saeima to continue the sitting without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined. So, honourable colleagues, if necessary, the sitting of the Saeima will continue without interruption. Does one of the Members have reservations? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. And now, the Bureau reports on the own-initiative proposals that have been tabled. Members Rihards Kols, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Inguna Ribena, Ritvars Jansons, Jānis Dombrava, Raivis Dzintars, Edwins Šnore, Jūlija Stepanenko, Romanas Naudiņš, Edmunds Teirumnieks, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Ilze Indicksone and Armands Krauze have submitted a draft decision on the “Parliament Resolution on the Non-Participation with the United Nations Global Pact for Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration”. This draft decision, colleagues, is being examined as an own-initiative proposal. Do Members have objections (Interface: Yes!) ) against the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Who has reservations?” ) So who has reservations? Mr. Pavilut, Mr. Pouce? Thank you. One Member would do it. So for us (Minimums.) it is necessary to decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. And there can be one Member in favour, one against. Mr. Dombrava, are you going to talk about it? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U96	I am very sad that today individual Members are trying to delay this matter. I think that despite that... The current government has no legitimate mandate to move forward on this matter until the Saeima has spoken. This means that if we vote today on the agenda for the next sitting of the Saeima, which I also call on you to do, then at this point... Next week... I think the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister should wait for what the Saeima will decide next Thursday. With regard to this UN Pact on Migration, I really call on Members of the Saeima to read and get acquainted with this Pact, because during the previous speech from Mr Pavļuta, I saw a great many myths and even absolute misdemeanours. Richard Cole has already mentioned a number of arguments. It must be understood that any pact can later serve as a basis for the creation of new conventions, which are already binding on the countries that have joined them. This may affect the policy pursued by the State on one issue or the other. With regard to definitions, it should be said that in the context of this Pact it is critically important that the definitions of'refugee' and'migrant' be brought together here. Anyone is called a migrant. From the 34-page document, if reference is made to various other declarations or decisions, only page 2 of this document shall be used for the refugees (from page 34!) . All other pages use the term ‘migrant’, meaning, of course, both asylum seekers and so-called economic migrants from less developed regions of the world. On the other hand, the commitments that the country would be obliged to fulfil if it wanted to comply with this pact in substance are very dramatic: a rapid application procedure, the non-retention of these migrants, the absence of detention in detention centres, the provision of access to the labour market, the various social benefits that the country would be obliged to provide. I would say even more: this pact should not be criticised by the National Union, but I think the media should be the first to oppose this pact, because point 33(c) of this pact states that it would be... the development of absolute media bias. It says that the state will support with funding those media that talk about migration and benefits, while excluding those who stress the negative aspects of mass immigration. Where can an even clearer attack on media impartiality be?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In this case, it is very important for Latvia, as a country that has experienced mass immigration, to be careful, critical and to stick with those advanced and developed countries that have made a clear no to accession to this Pact. Is it really the United States, Australia, Israel, Poland? I. Reindeer: “Switzerland!” ), Switzerland (Dep. I. Reindeer: “Italy!” ), Italy is so incompetent that it does not join this pact? But Mr. Pavilut is more competent and claims that it is absolutely necessary to do so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) I believe it is necessary to vote today on the agenda for the next sitting, to adopt this resolution and to ensure that Latvia does not accede to this pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U97	“Pret” has applied to speak to Vita Anda Steel. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Reindeer: “How unusual!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U98	Colleagues! I call for this resolution not to be supported. Firstly, this is not a question of Parliament's work; it is a question of the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Go, go! Are you talking 'no'? ) How do I ask? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, help!” ) I am speaking 'no', Mr. Neighbours!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U99	Please continue the debate. Colleagues, do not interfere with the debate so that the Member can speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U100	‘Pret’. I call for the 'no' vote in this resolution. This resolution is... ( The Room Noise. Depp. A. Neighbours: “Do you vote against”? We are also against!” ; from the AP fraction! : “Anda, don’t listen to him!” ) Mr. Neighbours, please allow me to speak in due time. Thank you for your intervention, but you don't need to! Colleagues, this... The document drawn up by Mr Kola is full of factual errors. I am in favour of a policy based on evidence, but this is not the case. Firstly, Mr Kola claims that the global pact undermines the role of national states in decisions on immigration issues. The text of the Pact - Article 15 C - reaffirms "the sovereign right of states to define their own national migration policy". It's a quote. The Pact is recommended, not binding, and confirms sovereign rights in this area. Go on. Mr Kola's resolution states that refugees and illegal immigrants are treated identically, giving them the same legal status. The Pact, however, says something else. I quote point 4 on page 2: ‘Military and refugee groups are different. Only refugees are entitled to the protection of specific international law.’ In his “on” speech, Mr Dombrava mentioned the media. This is not a limitation on the media, this is the conclusion that the media must not either engage in hate speech or provoke violence against anyone. Go on. Factological errors. There is an indication of countries that will not sign this global pact. The text needs to be adjusted here, as the Estonian Parliament decided to give its support on 26 November. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Coll: “Yes, but how many votes?” ) Lithuania is listed, but the discussion continues in Lithuania. No vote has been taken. I call on you to do so. This resolution by Mr Kola is not supported because this document is full of factual errors that can, in my opinion, shame the Saeima. Thank you. ( The Room Noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U101	Thank you. Colleagues! We are now deciding not on the substance of the document, but whether this draft decision should be placed on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima. And there was a debate on this. One Member spoke for, one for. I would therefore remind you once again that we are now deciding whether the draft decision will be put on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the inclusion of the draft decision of the Saeima “The Saeima Resolution on Non-Participation with the UN Global Pact on Safe, Ordered and Legal Migration” on the agenda of the Saeima's next ordinary session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 46, against - 45, abstaining. The draft decision shall be placed on the agenda of the next ordinary meeting. (Applause) Thank you, colleagues. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. I'm informing you about the submitted... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) I have informed you of the question put to you by Members. Members Kabanov, Pimenov, Agešin, Dolgopolov and Adamson submitted the question ‘On early childhood education for minorities’, which we refer to the Prime Minister for a reply. We have to register. Please call me! Please register the Members! While the results of registration are being prepared, time for notifications. The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U102	Hello, colleagues! I call for the establishment of an interparliamentary group with the United Arab Emirates in 15 minutes' time in the Yellow Hall. So I'm asking all those interested to join. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U103	Thank you. The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U104	On the other hand, I call for five minutes to gather together in the Yellow Hall to set up a group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Lithuanian Parliament.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U105	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U106	Colleagues from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! I mean, at 11.00, as we did yesterday... Extraordinary meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U107	Thank you. Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev. The results of the registration. < <
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U108	Good morning, honourable Members! Not registered: Jānis Adamsons... I don't see, Maria Golubeva... No, Maris Kučinskis... on vacation, Evia Papule... I see, thank you. John Reirs... I don't see, Edgar Rinkēvičs... No, John Urbanovich... Not applicable.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-29-PT13-507-U109	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
