ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the meeting room so that we can start the meeting of the Saeima on 4 October 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting, including the draft decision on the approval of a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Please turn on the microphone for Janis Vucanas!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission in its meeting really decided to ask for this item to be put on the agenda today. However, given that not all the political groups have been able to discuss the question of support for candidates in detail, because there are two candidates, it would be a request to postpone this issue to the next sitting, and the Commission will make an appropriate proposal to that effect.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft decision on the approval of a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -6, for -3, for -76. The draft decision is not on the agenda of the sitting. The Foreign Affairs Commission asks to exclude the draft law “Diaspora Law” from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Mr. Dombrava will talk about or against? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “He is not!” ; dep. R.Kols: “She won’t be!” ) So it is obviously a mistake. Do Members have objections? ( Internouncing call.) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of excluding from the agenda the draft law “Diaspora Law”! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Stop! Stop! Stop! I'm going to go instead of Dombrava!’ ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 82, for - 1. Consequently, the draft law “Diaspora Law” is not excluded from the agenda of the sitting. ( Milestones.) Members Kiršteins, Cilinskis, Galkuks, Abu Meri, Vectirāns, Lejiņš and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On the renaming of Jacob’s Square, Riga, Independence Square”. ‘ For” applied to speak a Member Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U4	Dear President, Honourable Members! This area plays a very important role in the growth of Latvian national self-esteem. When the Riga Citadel was built, there was Jacob's Bastion, which was dismantled at the end of 18th century, and there was created the Dean Square, where the Arsenal buildings were built in the southern part; now there is the Arsenals Exhibition Hall of the Latvian National Museum of Art. In 1880, the second Latvian song festival was held here. The Latvian people for the first time demonstrated their aspirations for independence in this show. As we know, the square is located on one side of the building, where the announcement of the state of Latvia took place in 1918 - the National Theatre. On the other side of the square is the building of the former Supreme Council, in which, as you know, the independence of our country was restored in 1990. And there have been different names of the area: after the demolition of the Bastion, it was the Square of Revelation; during the Soviet period, in 1950, it was called Cherniševsky Square. And obviously the only right name in this situation would be "Independence Square" because there is no other place in Riga that would be so closely related to three important events in the history of the Latvian people and all of Latvia. I call for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U5	Are Members against the amendments? Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the renaming of Jēkabs laukums, Riga, on the agenda of the sitting as Independence Square”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 22, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. Members Smiltēns, Šics, Viļums, Krūmiņš and Melgalis are asking for the agenda item 13 – the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” – to be moved before the agenda item 7 – the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( FROM a faction: ‘ Yes! ’ ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote for point 13 of the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” - to be transferred before point 7 of the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, amendments are made to the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” is transferred before item 7 of the agenda. Members Smilten, Viļums, Platopers, Krūmiņš and Melgailis are asking to move the 15th paragraph of the agenda – the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” – before the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U6	Good morning, colleagues! In spring, the Association of the Regions of Latvia submitted these amendments to the Consumer Rights Protection Act in order to limit quick loans. And I thought... I'm trying to remember which other draft law in this Saeima, in this term, has had such an abnormal resistance... with such innovative methods as to demolish it, brake it. ( Interface: ‘ Beer bottles! ’) ) In the summer there were two sittings where the quorum was pulled down, but yesterday, at the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, a proposal to remove it from today's agenda suddenly appeared under the different headings. Therefore, it is the proposal of the Association of the Regions of Latvia to appoint this one right after the Satversme... view as the first so that there is no other idea of how the Saeima can get rid of this bill and not be able to discuss it until the elections. I therefore call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U7	Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? And the objections. Please call me! We will vote for the 15th paragraph of the agenda “Amendments to the Consumer Rights Protection Law” to be moved before the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -23, refrains - not. Decision adopted. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Arms Movement” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Mežecka, Matīss, Šica, Stepanenko, Silver and other submitted draft laws “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Or... So “for” applied to speak to Roman Mežeckis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U8	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Good morning, President. The Preamble of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia and Article 1 of the Satversme establish that Latvia is a democratic, legal and socially responsible state. Latvian values are based on human dignity and freedom, Latvia recognises and protects human fundamental rights. The Satversme indicates the obligation of the legislator and the Government to respect the principle of social responsibility and the principle of fairness in their activities. Therefore, Latvia must, in accordance with its Constitution, do everything possible to equalize the most significant social differences in society. Latvia must take care of social justice and dignified living conditions. The Constitutional Court has also indicated on several occasions in its judgments that Latvia should be socially responsible in lawmaking, administration and discussion of the court should seek to implement social justice as widely as possible. The Constitutional Court has recognised that the obligation of the State to establish a sustainable and balanced policy for ensuring public well-being arises from the principle of a socially responsible state, which obliges the State to focus its policy on the equalization of social and property status. Having assessed the Latvian pension system, the OECD has found that the relative poverty rate of the elderly is high, especially among people over 75 years of age and among women. Basic pension levels are very low and have not increased in nominal terms for more than 10 years. The OECD notes that older members of society are almost entirely dependent on public benefits. In Latvia, the risk of poverty for people over the age of 65 (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) , is twice as high as the OECD average. In addition, low public expenditure on healthcare and other... providing social benefits increases the risk of vulnerability of older people. What do we offer? The proposal prepared by myself and former Minister of Justice Guntars Grīnvalds provides that each of the 105 thousand single pensioners of Latvia should pay the benefit in the amount of the minimum pension. Currently, the minimum pension is 117 euros. This bonus for the single elderly would help to reduce overall poverty. The poverty of Latvian pensioners is confirmed by official data. The study of Central Statistical Administration shows an uncomplicated trend: 2016... The number of people at risk of poverty in the age group over 65 was 38.1 per cent in 2015, rising to 39.9 per cent in 2016. It is the pensioners who are most at risk of poverty. If a person lives alone at the age of 65, the risk of poverty increases to 72.8 percent. This means that almost three out of four single pensioners in Latvia are poor. And that's why they really need this support! Ideally, the eligibility criteria should be very simple: a person reaches retirement age, receives an old-age pension and lives alone. No applications should be written for such a person; this state aid would not be taxed. For two years, such a system has been functioning in Estonia and it has been functioning well there. It is supported both by all Estonian politicians and by the entire Estonian society. An active discussion on the implementation of such a model is currently taking place in Lithuania. Why is there so much support in Estonia? As a result, Estonia believes that a reduction in the level of social strata should be achieved. They believe that poverty must be combated.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U9	Thank you. Mr. Mežecka! The debate on the referral is over and cannot be extended in accordance with the roll of order of the Saeima. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Packaging” presented by Member Cilinska, Nadiņa, Dombrava, Mūrniece and Dzintar be referred to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) as well as to the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” said Einars Cilinskis, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U10	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! For implementation of the deposit system in Latvia The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development prepared two interrelated draft laws – “Amendments to the Packaging Law” and “Amendments to the Natural Resources Tax Law”. I call on both today to be referred to the committee responsible. The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act” is to introduce a mandatory single deposit system for re-use and single-use packaging of beverages. The regulatory framework included defines the deposit systems (Sitting driver knocks down with a hammer.) the basic principles of implementation and operation and the existence of a uniform system of beverage packaging deposit in the country, the functioning of which will be ensured by the deposit system operator. This operator will consist of associations of producers and traders of drinks. When buying a product in a deposit package, the consumer pays the price of the product and the deposit fee, which is shown separately in the price sign of the product. The depositor shall, on receipt of the deposit package from the consumer, either refund the deposit fee or issue a cheque indicating the amount in question. The trade mark shall not be applied to the packaging of the deposit. The deposit system will cover part of the volume of packaging waste and will complement the national system of separate collection of waste. It is planned that PET or plastic... and glass bottles, as well as tin cans will be available for payment from 2020. It should be noted that a high and sustained level of support for the implementation of the deposit system exists in Latvian society for a long time. The results of the survey conducted in May 2017 show 82.2 per cent, in 2015 - 79.7 per cent support. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” provides that a taxable person who sells specified drinks in a deposit package shall not pay the tax on this packaging if he has concluded a contract with the deposit system operators for the operation of the deposit system. The deposit system operator for the application of the deposit system must have concluded a contract with an institution under the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which may be the State Environment Service. The deposit system is already in place and works successfully in Lithuania, Estonia and several other countries of the European Union. Therefore, the introduction of a deposit system in Latvia would allow producers to label the relevant packaging equally to trade in all Baltic countries. The introduction of a deposit system would not only represent an important step towards the introduction of a circular economy, but would also significantly reduce the use of empty bottles and cans of forests, roads and settlements. We can't get them all the time in the Big Cleanup. This would be a cardinal solution. I therefore call on both draft laws to support the referral to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U11	Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? And the objections? “ Yes, ” he said. None! And! None!’ ) So which Member? Member Rubik has reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Law” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - no, for - 20. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Cilinska, Nadiņa, Dombrava, Mūrniece, Dzintara's draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members have... So Members have reservations. Member Rubik has reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - no, for - 20. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. And now the report on the motives for voting. On behalf of the Unity - Member Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U12	After the vote it can be seen that SAVE does not really want green Latvia. Dear colleagues, The Unity of France supports the draft law and has previously supported the initiative signed by more than 10 000 people on the necessity of introducing a deposit system. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Our group members welcome the fact that the draft laws promised to VARAM some year ago have finally reached the Saeima. In Latvia, 79 percent of municipal waste is buried in landfills. This is about two and a half times the EU average. This situation is also not in line with the objective set by the European Union of at least 50 per cent of municipal waste being recycled. Recycling is not possible without sorting. A large part of this waste is made up of food products and therefore PET packaging. The deposit system has been put in place both in Estonia and Lithuania, and we see that the people of the border regions are stepping up their sorting and collection of waste for transfer to neighbouring countries. It shows that this system works and is necessary for Latvia, as currently, for example, in Riga, waste sorting is taking place... I'm sorry, sorting doesn't happen... sorting is not developed at all. Although the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Dūklav, says that he does not see the benefits of introducing a deposit system, we have very great problems with waste in the environment. And we hope that the Latvian Green Party will also be green in its values, not only in words, but also in works and the ZZS in general will support the adoption of these two draft laws, as this will make Latvia cleaner.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U13	Thank you. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” (No 1360/Lp12) submitted by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the Member Kiršteina, Cilinska, Gaukuka, Abu Meri, Vectyran and other submitted draft law “On the Square of Jacob, Riga, Renaming the Square of Independence” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, as well as to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board So - Members Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Sergeja Mirska, Raimonda Rubika, Andra Morozova, Vladimira Nikonova, Igora Zujev and Mihail Zemlinska request to Minister for Economic Affairs Arvil Asheraden "On the action of the Minister for Economic Affairs regarding the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity payments". The request on behalf of the Commission is made by Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U14	Highly honored Saeima! The Panel examined the request made by fellow Members Ivara Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Sergeja Mirska, Raimonda Rubika, Andra Morozova, Vladimira Nikonova, Igora Zujeva and Mihail Zemlinska to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Aseraden, on the action of the Minister for Economic Affairs regarding the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity payments (No 41/P12). Document No 5216. The Minister of Economics came to the meeting of the Commission, who reiterated the results of the working group of the Ministry of Economics and the constant intention to abolish the OIC system in Latvia. There was a lively debate, a vote twice. The result of both votes was four against four. The request was therefore rejected, following the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U15	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U16	Hello, colleagues! The great thinker, Winnie Puuk, has said that we need to do what we need to do, but we don't need to do what we don't need to do. Why did I call Vinnie Poeku a great thinker, not a lavender doll with a saw in my head? Because then... Otherwise, I would not know how to name an economic minister who has still not understood this Vinnie Poe's truth with regard to the OIC. In other words, the Minister for Economics continues to do what he should not do, while he does not do what he needs to do. In fact, careful coverage of the OIC is still ongoing. And I'll prove it to you today. The request ‘On the action of the Minister for the Economy in relation to the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity procurement payments’ was submitted. The context is very simple. To make you understand... As you know, over the course of the six-month period, I have carried out my parliamentary investigation and have shown that, in fact, the Ministry of Economics is not fighting the OIC, but is covering it. The Ministry of Economics has carefully tried to avoid it and to stand up for its truth. However, I have proved that with regard to all the things being done by the Ministry of Economics... In fact, they are mainly to cover the OIC and not to combat it. Both with regard to inspections... as the Ministry of Economics has been fighting for half a year with 40 station inspections, of which the largest court is not built at all; both with regard to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which the Ministry of Economics is presenting as a fight against OICs, but when we get to know them, we are actually seeing that they are rather to cover irregularities in this sector; and with regard to how this system is controlled at all. When the Ministry of Economics had been pushed in the corner and it was shown what should actually be done to prevent the OIC from doing so, the Ministry of Economics found an elegant solution instead of doing it (but could not do it): the Ministry of Economics set up a working group to take time before the elections, could do nothing and tell you that there is a working group. The working group finally prepared its report. This report by the working group was such that it was allowed to be criticised not only by experts, but even by the ministers of the economy and political colleagues of Unity from the coalition. In response, the Minister for Economics said: “If anyone has a better plan of action, let him present it to the government. ” I also submitted such an action plan to the government. Apparently, the Minister for Economics was not prepared to do so, for he was going to make a great PR out of his plan and to tell him what he had done and what had been done. However, when my plan appeared and the plan of the Minister for Economic Affairs appeared, it was obvious that one plan was completely pointless, almost nothing was being done to reduce the burden on the OIC - that is, what was prepared by the Task Force. On the other hand, my plan contained very specific measures which would quickly and significantly reduce the burden of OICs, in addition to legal ones. What did the Ministry of Economics do? What did the government do, which had promised to take this plan into account... and the Minister for Economics said: if someone has a better plan, is he ready to support it? As a result, what happened when these two plans appeared? What exit did the government find? It decided that these plans would not be discussed at all, because if they were to be discussed by the government, it would be clear what was actually doing. What, then, is the plan proposed by this working group of the Ministry of Economics? In essence, the Ministry of Economics... Thus, the public is told that it will be exempted from the OIC payment within three years. And that's really true! But the default is that the OIC burden will simply be hidden in two other payments, i.e. there will really be no OIC payment anymore, since the OIC capacity payment is offered by the Ministry of Economics to hide in the transmission tariff, while the OIC energy payment is offered by the Ministry of Economics to hide in ‘green certificates’. So really there will be no OIC payment over three years, just keep paying... with other payments. So, in essence, it is not how to put an end to the OIC, but how it could continue under another cover. In this connection, we asked the Minister for Economic Affairs to tell us about the other measures, because in essence... If we look at this report... there are five main measures proposed by the Ministry of Economics, this seems to be a working group. What's significant... and what the Minister for Economics couldn't respond to... why this report is called a task force report, although the task force has not accepted this report at all, and it is also unable to explain what it is about in hell! - The Ministry of Economics needed a working group, if not simply to take time, because in the end this report was not approved at all in the working group. More! Several members of the working group have expressed their basic and reasoned criticism of the solutions proposed in this report. What solutions are being proposed, to which the Minister of Economics was not in a position to respond? There are five solutions together. Two of them are not to cut the OIC, but to hide it under two payments - under the "green certificates" and... conceal the capacity payment in the transmission tariff. Next, it is proposed to introduce a subsidised electricity tax. The Minister for Economic Affairs fully states that this is a measure that will reduce the burden on OICs. The Minister of Economics did not understand what the question was about, and it was necessary to explain to him that the existing overcompensation procedure provides for such a case that, when calculating the amount of aid to an economic operator, his expenses are taken into account in order to ensure, in the end, a level of income that does not exceed nine per cent. And in these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, subsidised electricity tax is one of the expenditure items, whose businessman has to compensate for. This means, in particular, that if a subsidised electricity tax is introduced into the existing framework, then the OIC burden on the payers will not be reduced but will increase proportionately by the tax burden, because now this burden must be covered not by OIC companies, but by us as paying agents. It is completely absurd. The Minister for Economics was asked: ‘How will you ensure... If you talk about legal certainty, how will you ensure it with such regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers for economic operators?” ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The Ministry of Economy was unable to respond to this. Similarly, the Ministry of Economics was unable to answer the question of how it intended to fulfil its commitments to abolish the OIC payment system if the government did not accept these ‘green certificates’. In particular, the plan of the Ministry of Economics to present that the OIC payment is cancelled was as follows: to hide one part of it in the transmission tariff, the other part in the "green certificates"... On the other hand, green certificates were not supported by the government. This means that the Ministry of Economics has not even been able to prepare an action plan to hide the OIK... not just how to reduce it, but even how to hide it. And it's quite dramatic. If the Ministry of Economics asks: “Well, how do you intend to do it, what are the options if there are no “green certificates”?” - then it turns out that the Ministry of Economics has only two options - either these "green certificates" which the government has not supported... or leave the existing duty. Here is the full contribution of the Ministry of Economics from this working group. Next. Of all these five measures proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, only one measure could indeed significantly reduce the burden on OIC. In particular, it is: changes in the internal rate of return recalculation arrangements. We had already pointed out this in our request... previous requests... and we had demonstrated that the way in which the Ministry of Economics has so far implemented this overcompensation conversion, this calculation of the internal rate of return... Could I have a hammer? ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) ... the calculation of this internal profit, the calculation of the internal profit margin... it does not correspond to economic logic, nor to what Europe... what the Ministry of Economics has promised to the European Commission. In particular, the overcompensation will result in the overcompensation being eliminated and the overcompensation being recalculated... In calculating this overcompensation, account is taken of all the aid granted to the operator in order to make it proportionate and not excessive. That is, the minimum necessary for a businessman to pay off when working effectively. We have demonstrated that this is not the case, and we have pointed out the measures that should be taken. The Ministry of Economy has included a large part of these measures in its report, agreeing that this should be done now, but not at all, by declaring that all these measures should not be taken because they are not agreed with the European Commission. Then we asked the Ministry of Economics to show where there is this existing order, which seems to be in line with the European Commission. That the European Commission has accepted this... The Ministry of Economy is unable to demonstrate this. Go on. The Ministry of Economics was asked, as it really is - why, when the OIC was introduced, it could do so without coordination with the European Commission, and everything was fine - for 10 years it could do so and then coordinate! -, in turn, now, in case something is changed and OIC could be reduced, the Ministry of Economics says: “No, no, no, we can’t do it! We must first bring this into line with the European Commission!" Well, and now the Ministry of Economics has been asked what its position is. Because if we... When we talked about these 10 years of illegal support, the Ministry of Economics said that everything was fine. Now, suddenly, it says that it can no longer be done. And we want to ask it, which of those positions is the right position to which it is now standing? That this is an infringement or is it not an infringement if the aid is granted without coordination? The Ministry of Economy cannot respond to this. We can understand from this that the position of the Ministry of Economics is that sometimes this requirement can be met, sometimes not. In essence, this situation has shown that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is lying in its lies. More! The Ministry of Economics was asked: what is it? Is the Ministry of Economic Affairs entitled to implement aid which is not compatible with the European Commission? Well, as if it were simple, an elementary question, to which should be immediately clear, for a direct answer - no, no, no, no right. The Ministry of Economy was unable to answer that question. This question was repeated to it three times, and all three times the Ministry of Economics avoided answering that question. Why do you think? And that is the moment of truth for society as a whole: what is happening to the OIC's sphere at the moment? The truth is: The Ministry of Economy is well aware that illegal aid continues to be implemented. Unlawful aid shall be payable to the general public. The Ministry knows that very well. And that's why you can't answer that question, to this obvious question. Because, in fact, much of the support is still not consistent with the European Commission. In particular, it refers to TEC-2... where the European Commission's answer is that this aid has not been agreed with the European Commission and is therefore illegal, so it is effectively unlawful for the public to pay. Also, a whole series of wind farms that were authorised before that period for which harmonisation was carried out continue to benefit from unlawful aid. The Ministry of Economy ensures this by knowing that it is illegal. More! We have received a letter from the European Commission in which the European Commission says very clearly and specifically that, in order for this aid implemented by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to be consistent with what the European Commission has recommended and that has been agreed with the European Commission, Latvia had to implement the overcompensation measures that Latvia... The Ministry of Economy itself recognised in its report that it had not been implemented and that it was accepted by the government. This in turn means that the OIC is currently illegal. Colleagues, the Ministry of Economics knows this very well and is afraid to admit it. More! The Ministry of Economics has created a dramatically serious situation for the whole Latvian society by not acknowledging its unlawful actions. All the hundreds of millions of proceedings with which the Minister of Economics fears society will really be possible if the Minister of Economics does not recognise the unlawful acts, because then all OIC operators who have used the illegal illegal acts of the Ministry of Economics have reason to go and say, please, you say that everything is right! We have to get this money! In fact, the opposite is true. These hundreds of millions of proceedings... Knowing what has now been answered by the European Commission is threatening us... not from the OIC beneficiaries, but from all those who have paid. Because they are forced to pay illegal aid. And the legal provisions of the European Union are very clear, specifically that such aid may be required to be repaid. Colleagues, what the Unity is doing right now is a disaster for the Latvian state! But they do this with confidence that the Latvian state will also endure this - once again. Colleagues, I am calling for today's vote on the basis of conscience, not in the way that you are told by the Coalition Cooperation Council, to show, however, that this will not be politically covered and that society has the hope of ending this. Your vote today will show this - whether you will continue to cover this politically covered area, your sponsor's interests, or whether you are really prepared to stand up for the public interest. I call on the general public and the media to follow along and get acquainted with the facts I have been talking about today. The European Commission has made it clear that the OIC is illegal in the way that the Ministry of Economics is currently doing. The Ministry of Economy hides it from society. I think it is time for such politicians to go home. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: Saturday! ) If the elections had not taken place in a few days' time, we would have asked for the resignation of the Minister for Economic Affairs today. But we very much hope that society will make the right choices and send such politicians to the political mess. I invite you to support the request!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U17	The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U18	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, How much more can the OIC entrepreneurs and those millionaires behind them standing in this Saeima be lobbying! ( Milestones.) Once again, this issue has been put on our agenda with a view to delaying the abolition of the OIC or removing Minister Arvil Asheraden before he is liquidating the OIC. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “What foolishness!” ) Colleagues, I cannot please you. We're not stopping! ‘ New Unity” has stopped OIC in this Saeima by eliminating 26 stations, saving the Latvian population 385 million euros and ensuring lower electricity bills and prices as of 1 July. In the next Saeima, we will liquidate the OIC. ( Insight: “Go now! ” ) And if you take Arvil Asherad away from us, we have a number of leaders who are ready to stand in his place ( Intersent: “Jain Upenieks!” ) - Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Renārs Putniņš, Evik Siliņa, Vilnis Ķirsis (Riga)... And we will sort out the sector by industry, eliminating every OIC, including in the pharmaceutical sector and elsewhere, so that rogue entrepreneurs cannot profit unfairly, make huge profits. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “We have already submitted our proposals!” ) Colleagues! We are proud of our people, and only together can we put an end to injustice in that country. And if you also support and want the level of prosperity that we deserve long ago, then I call on you to support new leaders and vote for the New Unity on Saturday! “ What is going on here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U19	Colleagues, please do not engage in pre-election campaign! However, we have the Saeima sitting. Name to Member Artus Neminis. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U20	‘New Unity’ is a dead party. It's gone! ( Interface: ‘ Really? ’) ) You can not stop. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “Let’s see in four years’ time how it will be with you!” ) And don’t talk to the grass! ( Milestones.) Dear Republic of Latvia... ( FROM a faction: “The people! ” ) people!) ( Merry laughter.) I am extremely sorry to hear today's request of 38, which is rejected by this buffer commission. Mr. Zarins, you can't hear your voice here! Your voice is not heard here, but with your voice here, the truth is spoken about by OIC: it is the largest abyss in the country of Latvia. On June 20, when I was the first signatory... For Asheraden's flight, KNAB came and arrested me. ( The paragraphs are: “O-o! ” ; dep. A.Judins: “It wasn’t anything else?” ) I couldn't... Snatch... ( Insight: ‘ Are you paying taxes? ’) ) Laugh... Snatch... Snatch... Snatch... ( The utterances are: “It is not true! ” ) Laugh... I didn't have a chance... I did not even have the opportunity to argue why Asheraden should resign from the office of Minister for Economic Affairs. Asheraden lies to us... When he was in March... When there was the first depression, I gave him the forum to answer for the OIC. ( Subtotal: What is “fore”?) ) Within three months (intermediate call) ... In three months' time, Mr Asheraden and his ministry did not respond to any requests, and here we will not be discussing them. — Impressory: “Absolute lies!” )... Let us not deal with any OIC cases. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosol: “Good actor! Very good actor!” ) We will talk here about the current demand. Mr Brigmanis is ashamed to climb here on the platform and say that this request has been rejected again, so he sends a small extortioned Wyko (Dep. V.Spolitis: “Look in your face!” ), who is trying to be an ambassador of bad news and to say that this request has been rejected again. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Kalnozols: “More actors in the Saeima!” ) I don’t know, you really live in it in your imaginary turf bubble (Dep. V. Kalnozols: “More actors in the Saeima!” ) and you don’t understand what’s going on? For ten years you have stolen the people of Latvia with OIC. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “It’s about demand?” ) Lokustov, close your mouth! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U21	Colleagues! I call for compliance with the code of ethics of the Saeima Members, and speak, please, on the request!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U22	There has not even been any political will shown here at any time both by the Saeima Commission and by Minister Asheraden on this request... or the answer. It is about answering the question! The issue is already being excluded from the very foundation... which is called the buffer commission - the Request Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “You have not been to the Commission for Petitions yourself!” ) You are sitting here for the last month. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “On the request!” ) Today the reference point has begun. Your time here - the “new” old unity - is over. You can yell, desperately tell me that you have young people you don't have. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “You will finally talk about the request?” ) The last new members are Dalder and Loskutow. Ha-ha-ha! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “What have you used this morning?” ) I think the coalition is over today. Here. ( Interface: “On the request! ”) ) Please support this request so that the Minister, who is still a minister, can be responsible for the OIC. He was asked a question and you, as Members of the Saeima, should give the Minister the opportunity to answer - that is your duty! - rather than protect your coalition minister. You have a coalition over. Now it's gone, and you know it! ( The utterances are: “Hearer speaking! Unconvinced!’ ) With effect from 1 January 2019, the new government will eliminate the OIC and the OIC will no longer exist. It is an illegal tax, it does not have to be paid for by the citizens of Latvia. With OIK you have sent thousands of people out of Latvia because we have the most expensive electricity price in the Baltics! Because of you, “new” Old Unity... You've protected your... I don't know what... but guarded. In this Saeima, you do not even allow the Minister responsible for OIC to ask questions. He had a long time to resign. It's a long time! And you are sitting here and yelling at me something that I say as (Deep. L. Čigāne: “Who are you, why shouldn’t you light up?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “)... The fact that I am saying is that a public response must be given? Of course! Please support this request so that I can still give Asheraden, the temporary Minister for Economic Affairs, to account for this illegal tax on the OIC. The OIC will be abolished on 1 January 2019. That's what I can promise you. ( Insight: “Girinovskis won’t come from you, man! Swax! Swak!” ) Mr Zarins (The Unity of the Group: “Let us build a coalition together! It'll be okay!' ), tell us more about OIC! It's your horse, you know this thing best. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come Come on, come on, come on, come on, come The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “He already drove the horse! The horse is dead!” ) Seriously. They can't hear you. Look at what's going on there! Please support this request. Please support this request for illegal OIC payment to Latvian citizens. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Kalnozols: “Applause to the actor about the performance of the artist! Applause to the artist! Where are the applause?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U23	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U24	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, Unlike my colleagues, I will not engage in pre-election campaign. But now is the essence. Firstly, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to Ivars Zarins for having raised this problem, raised it, and in the previous sitting we had already adopted a draft law - which concerns the OIC - at first reading. And I hope that this or next Saeima will finally adopt a fair, fair law. But when we talk about the OIC totality... This is what Mr. Neighbourne said: 38 requests. Mr. Riverer, you spoke very wisely about everything, but not about the substance. As Parliamentary Secretary, you did not answer the question as to whether the Ministry of Economics is entitled to support an uncoordinated OIC support programme that is by nature illegal... Most importantly, you, as Parliamentary Secretary (at least I have not recorded it), have never been to the Panel's sitting when they were on the table. Perhaps there are respected lawyers who are in the coalition factions who will finally be able to explain to me the link between the words used by the Ministry of Economics in replying to a written request on this subject - 'fair offenders'. Unfortunately, the Minister for Economics was unable to answer this question - which he considered to be a "fair offender". When the next question is asked, how much we have paid these 'fair' offenders, the answer is: EUR 2.4 billion. How much do we plan to pay? One and a half billion. Mr President, you mentioned here that the government has adopted rules that will reduce the burden on end-users. Well, these fairy tales were told by Mr. Asheraden! But the best way to go to the market, to the Central Market, and tell it there, maybe someone will believe it because you and the Minister of Economics... you lie because the payment is not reduced... for one reason... If you shift it to Latvenergo's profit, it means... How are Latvenergo’s profits distributed? Part goes on development, the rest goes on budget. So indirectly, we will all continue these payments. What are we lying to? For renewable energy. Maybe one of the coalitions can tell me an elementary thing... Why is everything in one bag? What is renewable energy? As if all the less logical people remain clear: renewable energy... Thus, it uses the item that has already been processed once. It is taken to recycling. We have green energy here, wind, hydropower. Neither has anyone answered the question whether Latvia really needs 144 small hydropower plants. For what? And why is it that basic business, what concerns green energy, renewable resources, is not separated from that part of business where this support really is needed? These are elementary things, to which there are also simple answers. If there had been a wish to end this crop, it would have ended already a year ago. I am not talking about the fact that the Ministry of Economics has not carried out elementary control over how these payments are issued and to whom they are issued and on what basis for all these 10 years. And if we look at the beginnings, then the ministers of the old Unity economy are everywhere. By the way, others too. What then established it all, all this huge fraud, if not our so-called coalition? Those ancestors who are, in elementary terms, heirs from the foredays... Didn't like it? I should have changed it! It also affects a great many laws, laws. And that's why I think that while it's lawful to steal... until we create “legal” thieves... Is it in the Ministry of Economics... whether they are insolvency administrators, bailiffs... Meanwhile, we won't get rid of the name... who sounds simple - we live in a semi-Maphic Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U25	The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U26	I've just found out that, it turns out, there's still a coalition. Really, huh? I ask the leader of the Group of the National Alliance: 'Raiv, will you support this request?' - “No!” - “Why?” - “We don’t want to.” Is that normal?Oh, no, Statesman?Oh, no, no, no, no, Statesman?Oh, no, no, no, no, ( Interface: ‘ Well come on once! ’) ) Is it statehood? Just, "we don't want"? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “On the request!” ) For you understand that lawyers have given an opinion to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Asheraden, that this is an illegal payment, for the fact that our country is capable (Dep. V.Spolitis: “Nemelo!” ) to protect ourselves from the fact that if, in the case of any of these entrepreneurs who receive this money, we will try to sue us in court... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Nemelo!” ) that we will be able to protect ourselves. But these people, who are here against me, here, appear here and, it turns out, also there, are those who still think they control the country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Nemelo!” ) It is not state thinking! They don't think about society. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosol: “More expressive! More souls enter! More expressive!” ) The public has long said – this is the biggestft in the history of Latvia! What else is needed to explain this to these tyrants? Why? What else is to happen? Elections? You have done so that in Latvia investments do not come in... that we cannot invest, because we have the most expensive electricity, the biggest labour taxes. People are leaving Latvia. The people of Latvia are dying! ( Insight: ‘ Theme speaks! ’) ) Die out because we are all the most expensive! And now you're climbing here in the troupe, and you're telling me about it... That this... Even demand... even a question cannot be asked! ( Insight: ‘ Theme speaks! ’) ) So far has gone that even a question cannot be asked! The Appeals Commission as such must be eliminated! It's a long time! It's a buffer commission! Mr. Brigmann, don't touch it! Open your eyes! Come and tell me here! You're going to be at the next Saeima. They'll be gone. Come and tell me how you see this question! Come on, press the button and stop what's going on here! You are the Head of the Request Commission! How many years have we been talking about this? On the fact that issues are tapped simply because there is a demand commission buffer. What's not logical here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Asheraden is asked! The question is simply dropped because he is a coalition minister! What's that nonsense, huh?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Žigāne: “Take this with your heart!” ) Theft is good?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not good. Please support this request. (Applause) Depp. V. Kalnozols: “The author! Author!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U27	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U28	Today is such a strange and peculiar sitting, colleagues. That's what you're doing. Interesting. Colleagues, there are two things that should unite us all, and these are two conclusions and two common objectives. Firstly, it is absolutely clear that Latvia should not afford to be a low-wage country. We cannot be the land of cheap labour. And the people... If they make surveys, young people even say that they would have a welcome salary of €1,400. I'll get there. Secondly, development in the regions of Latvia is crucial, their growth and the goal of attracting investment and production companies, restoring production in the regions. If we cannot do that, then the regions will become empty. People will leave if they don't get good wages. If entrepreneurs pay good wages, then they have to go somewhere else. And one such position is the price of electricity. As we know, we are on the stock exchange and buy electricity on the free market. This is a reflection of the living, which is the price of electricity at the moment. We can see that this is EUR 81 per megawatt-hour. There is about a similar tariff in the Nordic countries (with the exception of Norway at present). So compete with other countries just after this... The tariffs are all the same... But if we go abroad and say, “Invest in Latvia!” , then we cannot be proud that they will have useful electricity tariffs here, and we can no longer say: “There is a cheap labour force here, and you will have cheap labour.” Why? Because “LAVIJA FINIERIS” for OIC and distribution tariff costs EUR 40 per megawatt-hour and EUR 28 across the border in Estonia. Forty euros per megawatt hour per 28 euros! If the price of electricity... There are individual companies that have changed... certain energy-intensive companies, but this is done at the expense of other entrepreneurs, doing this here... Just move it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “How much “Cemex” costs?” ) There is a fiction... Because, obviously, last year there was a lot of water in the Daugava and hesos produced a lot of electricity. There was a high profit for Latvenergo; 80 million were directed before the elections to compensate slightly for and reduce the OIC tariff. But it is for one year, because this summer was dry and next year it will not be possible to do it. That's why OIC and - I stress! - lowering the distribution tariff is an absolute priority for the next Saeima, otherwise people in the regions will not have a job and people will not get decent wages. I call for this request to be supported. Because the rate at which audits have been carried out at OIC stations, OIC recipient stations... at this pace, colleagues, these audits will be carried out until their authorisations have been completely completed by themselves. I therefore call for support to be given to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U29	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U30	Dear colleagues, Master of the river is not seen in his place; he is trying to find out something now at the last moment. If Mr. Riverer's not an empty speaker, then... He threatened us with young olicists today. He said, "If there is no Asheraden, there will be more and more in his place, and more... Some cognitive dissonance is coming because... In fact, you are responsible for what is happening to the OIC at the moment, and should be the Minister for Economics here in the Saeima, and explain what is happening and take full responsibility. And I'd like to know... If Mr. Riverer isn't an empty speaker... I understand that no one else can respond at the moment instead of Mr. Riverer. If Mr Upenieks is really responsible for his words, he could come and tell us all whether or not the Ministry of Economics is entitled to provide State aid that has not been agreed with the European Commission. Because we have still not received an answer from either the Minister for Economic Affairs or anyone else. Maybe Hosam Abu Mary could help us? He's very active trying to say something right now. I call for support for this request and for answers to our questions. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U31	The name of the Member, John Crag.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U32	Dear colleagues, Of course, it is clear that there are pre-election times and that there is an opportunity to show ourselves as never before. In a week's time, all minds will be more serious. But I want to give you a few reflections. You know, OIC - it is, of course, a huge circle, and no one doubts that. However, if the Ministry of Economics considers it to be a great success that it has taken away these quotas... What is it, 28 or 38? For entrepreneurs who wanted to create something in the peripheral or province, then, in fact, it is simply a bad thing. And for you to better understand what that means, maybe go away... Go to Latgale, go to Kārsava, where such an entrepreneur Edgars Romanovskis created a garden - tomato, cucumber cultivation complex, created many jobs. Very modern company! And if such entrepreneurs do not need support, then those who call themselves economists here do not understand what the economy is. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U33	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U34	We hear a lot of different speeches about how we will liquidate OIC: today, tomorrow, next year, when we come to power, let us release all those who can be fired... But one nuance. 16 October is the date by which proposals for electricity market law can be submitted. The electricity market law is open! Mr President, if you have the option of ending an OIC just tomorrow, tomorrow, then today I look forward to a proposal from you regarding the electricity market law - specifically how you end the OIC. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You still don’t know that?” ) Otherwise, you simply speak an empty language. Unfortunately, the churning of empty straws has been what has supported you all the time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “That’s why these straws are culted to be OIK!” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U35	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U36	It's about this bill. If you have read an annotation in an accompanying letter... where it was submitted... this draft law has been created directly on the basis of my proposals - on proposals that have been known to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for a year. But instead of implementing them to come with such a draft law, the Ministry of Economics set up a working group and came up with completely pointless proposals to prevent the OIC's aphere, in fact to cover the OIC's aphere. Unfortunately, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics is unable to answer the question he has asked, but is dealing here with complete demagogy and lies. And this was, colleagues, the moment of truth! If now the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics does not come here at the platform, and will not say whether the Ministry of Economics is entitled to provide uncoordinated support to the European Commission... and why the Ministry of Economics is still doing so, then everything he said was a lie: another example of how the Unity covers the OIC's sphere, the interests of its sponsors, which are more expensive to them than everything else, also the interests of society. And because of these interests, the Minister for Economics is ready to invade Latvia in litigations of hundreds of millions - lost litigations! Because of the position of the Ministry of Economics... who does not wish to recognise his unlawful, unlawful conduct. And if they do not accept it, there may be justified claims on the basis of it for all the others. To say, ‘ How about that? If you have done all things wrong and wrong, but all things are right and justified, pay us now for it." And that's what you're leading to, and that's what interests you, because you have the confidence that this once again, your country will endure. I very much hope that voters will make the right choice and send you home - in a political mess, where you should have been because of what you have done with this country for a long time. Mr. Riverer, come here and answer that question. You can't do that! It is a moment of truth for all. It is a moment of truth about what Unity is actually doing: a careful and desperate attempt to cover the OIC sphere, although the proposals... What you have to do... It's been known for a long time. The Minister for Economic Affairs is unable to answer any of the questions demonstrating that he has no competence (Dep. V.Spolitis: “Please don’t lie, Mr. Zarins! Don’t lie!” ), not political will. ( Milestones.) Mr. Spolish, come... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. Spolish, if I lied, come here and prove it! Tell me, answer this question: is the Ministry of Economics entitled to provide aid that has not been agreed with the European Commission, or is it not? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “The Minister for Economics has answered you in the Commission for Petitions!” ) You did not answer! The question was then asked three times, and there are many witnesses here. Take the protocol! Take the protocol, it's all recorded there! ( Milestones.) You're lying now, you're desperate because you don't have to say anything! You're exposed! You all sit here, remain silent and hope that all this will remain silent until the elections and no one will be aware of it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Right!” ) I invite you to make the right choice! Colleagues! Vote today with your conscience. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U37	Name to Member Augustis Brigman.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U38	Good morning, colleagues! Indeed, there have been many such issues at the Panel's sittings. I want to say a few things. First thing. All requests have been answered by the Ministry of Economy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Exactly!” ) Its replies have been given in writing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “But not in essence!” ) The other question is... ( Milestones.) Another question is whether these responses satisfied the applicants or whether these responses have been expanded. In this respect, I can say that my thoughts were shared. That's the number one. Number two. I can fully assure you... both I personally, and... All these submitted materials have been submitted by the Request Commission to the Public Prosecutor’s Office. From beginning to end. All this case is located in the investigation of the public prosecutor's office, in the relevant institutions. And it was the Request Commission that opened the case in these responsible institutions. I very much hope that these institutions will draw the appropriate conclusions, make an objective decision... and will also make responsible decisions for all these cases, and the perpetrators will be held accountable. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “When?” ) This is a number two. Number three. As has already been said, there is a step towards addressing the OIC issue in order to reduce or eliminate it altogether. I think this is really one of the first steps of the new government. At these meetings, too, people have said: they are totally dissatisfied with the situation with the OIC. And I am deeply convinced that the issue will be resolved and the OIC as such will disappear from public rhetoric and more generally (Interface: “Yes!” ) from human invoices. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “And then there will be no more work for Zariņš! There will be no more to talk about!” ) But today, colleagues, we are not talking as we say about what (A noise in the hall.) populist promises or any populist decisions. Today we are talking about whether these issues are moving forward or not, and whether the OIC will be completed. That's it! Through!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U39	I closed the debate. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Panel? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Sergeja Mirska, Raimonda Rubika, Andra Morozova, Vladimira Nikonova, Igora Zujeva and Mihail Zemlinska's request to the Minister for Economic Affairs Arvilas Aseradens "On the action of the Minister for Economic Affairs regarding the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity payments"! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Nationals, vote “for”! Vote at least once in your conscience!’ ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 35, for - 14. The request is rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to begin to look at this issue, there is a need to register a quorum of Members. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! 91 Members have registered, so we can begin to examine the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U40	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. No proposal was initially submitted to the Commission, but the Commission considered it necessary to determine the time of entry into force for amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. The Commission therefore decided to prepare its proposal by stating that the date of entry into force was 1 January of the following year. The Commission therefore supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U41	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Judin: "Mr Smilten, for the proposal! January 1st!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U42	Colleagues! If we had asked about a year ago whether it was possible for the Saeima to amend the Constitution so that the following amendments would enter into force on 1 January 2019 and Latvia would elect its first state official – the President of Latvia – in an honest, transparent, open vote, any expert, journalist, and members of the Saeima would have said this is impossible. There is no constitutional majority for such amendments to be possible at all on 1 January next year. And it has its own foundation, because history proves it. I was also one of the signatories and tabled amendments on 24 November 2011 and there was a vote on 29 March. These amendments were not delayed by the 'no' and 'ZZS' votes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: ‘Is it about the proposal?’ ) In 2014, there was also a decision on these amendments to the Constitution (Not heard.) ... On April 25, 1999, the Association of the Regions of Latvia presented a new, different offer on how to get society involved in the process of selecting a president. This was rejected and this led to these amendments, which made it possible for these amendments to enter into force on 1 January of the following year. However, there was a vote in May in which our proposal was supported by only six votes; both the FAO, the National Union and the SACCAN rejected. ( Internexion: “Watch the motion! ”) ) And in four months, in September...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U43	Colleagues, please talk about the proposal. The proposal provides for the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U44	We finally just start working hard... I'm talking about it being possible... This Decision shall enter into force on 1 January. So, colleagues, there is one good saying. Someone who claims that this cannot be done must not delay what is already doing. That is why, for me too, this vote is of personal importance at the moment. Both eight years ago and four ago, I have promised people that I will achieve this, and this will be done today. We will elect the President during the centenary of Latvia in an open, fair, transparent vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U45	Yeah. From 1 January 2019. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U46	Good afternoon, brothers, sisters — Dep. A. Berzins: “And nurses!” ) and nurses, as Mr. Berzins says! I call for this proposal not to be supported until it has been examined... President elected by the people. Why? In fact, this proposal is a return to the Supreme Council. Whatever you're talking about here... Well, I'll say you're a vulture, it's a return to the Supreme Council. If we look at all those gentlemen who have voted in favour of this proposal, almost 90 percent come to this platform and say that it is pointless! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, In fact, what will the state benefit from returning to the Supreme Council? What people... that we will return in the time of the Supreme Council? And my personal opinion... I like to think like a shahist. Such a draft law has, in my opinion, appeared to be such a certain kind of revenge. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “What date are you talking about?” ) External forces... so, revenge. I'm saying that our security service... with the influence of external forces and... There are many Members here in the Chamber who represent the external forces. I believe that this is a kind of revenge for not electing Mr Levit. Didn't you choose Mr. Levit? We will give you the open vote! And I think all these articles... like the Vejonis like this, the Vejonis like this... media belonging to foreign countries, as you say... It is simply because you or we, the leaders of the people, did not understand and elected what we wanted. We wanted Mr. Levit! Why did you elect Mr. Vejonis? Next time we will control you, we will look through what you have voted for. And if any one of you will vote against Mr. Levite, the foreign media will write about you all that you have not heard about yourself. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Berzins: “Bad! Oh, my God!” ) A great request is to postpone the examination of these issues until the issue of the elected president of the people has been examined. Do we really trust our people? We give the people the opportunity to elect a president with whom the people are proud so that people feel that they have made this choice themselves, not to blame us for not having... elected by someone who didn't want it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U47	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U48	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I think that much of the debate has come to an end, the passionate debate we have come from having Parliament's last sitting and, of course, from the fact that Delfos is currently live. And in general, we debate it calmly, it is serious about the amendment to the Constitution, right, Artus? Right, Wade? You're stuck! What is happening here can be called everything - Parliament, let us say, an active debate - but it is not a normal sitting. It does not happen in the normal way, so no constitutional changes are discussed in the world! And I would like to point out the following things: a verbatim report. I have already mentioned last time the way in which the constitutional amendments are adopted in Estonia. Yes, it is Estonia again and again - a good example! In Estonia, an amendment shall be adopted by a simple majority in one parliamentary term and then by a three-fifths majority in the next parliamentary term. Three-fifths of the vote! That is a huge number of Members, this qualified majority to be adopted must confirm what had been adopted by the previous Parliament. You really think that the next Saeima, the 13th Saeima, would adopt this amendment with three quarters of the vote? No, no, no! I don't believe that! If we look at it, at the last sitting of the Saeima... in this paranormal atmosphere... In the Commission there is no other way, everyone thinks: "How will it be now? Will I be elected or elected? What am I going to do, how am I going to pay the credits? And, at all, why am I here?” Amendments to the Satversme cannot be adopted in such an atmosphere. It's immoral. Luxembourg has three months between readings. Three months apart to calm down, get in and go on! In Portugal, there is a five-year interval between the reading of amendments to the constitution. We're proud of... Edward boasts, "We took through this good pace, super!" Come on, we're turning the entire Constitution at this pace! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten: “seven years!” ) Super! CONNECTION simply sits happy and has done a good job. We are voting, of course, it will not change anything, and we are working... ZZS, people will look at you! The people will see how this amendment to the Constitution will move forward, this question of the people's elected president. ( Internouncing call.) We hope that there will be... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. See you here maybe... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U49	Mr Baloža, have you called for support for the proposal or have you spoken against? (Applause) There is no answer. Mr Baloža, have you spoken about this proposal or have you spoken against? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Ringolds just talked!” ) “About”. Thus, the Member had spoken about. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U50	Dear colleagues, I will talk about the proposal. The proposal to set the date of entry into force 1 January 2019 is necessary to amend Section 8 of the Law on Election of the President of Latvia. In the second sentence of Article 8, it is necessary to amend the election procedure from secret to public, by providing that open elections are to take place by means of ballot papers. Colleagues! If we support this proposal today, we are voting in favour of the draft law at third reading, then we can also commit that we can still amend the law on the election of the President in this term of office. After a few minutes, at 10.30 a.m., we have a sitting of the Legal Commission, and there I will also ask my colleagues - the Legal Commission - to prepare and direct this bill, because if we have been working on amendments to the Constitution for seven years... and by the vote... I'll admit, I don't really believe we'll close it with a win, but... Well, I'm wrong! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “What is the victory?Oh, no, no, no, no, What do you tell fairy tales?” )... then we can also start work today on amendments to the Law on the Election of the President of Latvia and do this work in this - the 12th Saeima. I sincerely hope that, by supporting both this proposal and the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, we will achieve what we have promised to the people - that the people will know what their elected Member is doing, how he elects the highest official of the state, the President of the State. ( Insight: “The people want to live better than just know! ” ) We are a democratic state, we are a legal state, we are a failed state, and we can do so, colleagues! Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U51	Thank you. Mr Curry, will you have a debate with almost two and a half minutes? That's enough. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U52	Dear colleagues, ( Interface: “Simplely say, ‘ I am in favour! ’ ” “ I call for respect for the basic national law to be respected. Firstly, it is not a simple rule. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Secondly, on 1 January, I fully agree with what Mr Baloža said that in this way the national framework law and its amendments are not being adopted. To me, frankly, there is no sense of victory. I understand that legal, constitutional lawyers are not here to win, but politicians who, without explaining what this amendment will bring, have simply achieved that they have won populistly. Just... I would also say to Mrs Inese Lībiņa-Egnere that we must amend not only the law on the election of the President of Latvia, but also the roll of order of the Saeima. A number of laws must therefore be amended. Consequently, I call on every Member to understand, when voting in favour of this proposal, that, with respect for the constitution, he does not make amendments for five days... Within five days, proposals... the following day (Interior: 'We are voting!') ), the table is not yet compiled, but the panel is ready to judge. ( Milestones.) The Constitution must be assessed by two Saeima, and then we can say that it is a basic law of the nations and not just of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U53	MEPs still want to debate this proposal? ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) I closed the debate. The debate has already been closed. On behalf of the Commission, Mr. Burns, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U54	Yeah. Colleagues, I really also draw attention to what Mrs Lībiņa-Egneres said, namely that, in support of this amendment to the Constitution, amendments to the law on the election of the President will be necessary. We have allowed this bill to be put on the agenda of the Legal Commission next week's meeting, a little ahead of events. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law on the Treaty of the Republic of Latvia at the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U55	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 85, no, three, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. (Applause) Thank you, dear colleagues. And now we can go on a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U56	Dear colleagues from the Legal Commission! We meet in five minutes at the premises of the Legal Commission for, hopefully, a short sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U57	Name to Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U58	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Artis Gustovskis, Līga Kozlovska... Līga, are you?... Jelen Lazareva, Roman Mežeckis, Laimdota Straujuma... Yes, Inguna Silver, Jānis Trupovnieks and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U59	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U60	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. I call on the Members who are still in the lobby to return to the Chamber so that we can continue the sitting of the Saeima after a break. On the agenda - draft law on consumer protection law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U61	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” for the third reading. We have received 27 proposals. The proposal tabled by the Member (now our former colleague) Askolds Kļaviņš is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U62	So, Members want to debate this proposal? Let's start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U63	Colleagues! We were dealing with a question that was raised by the Saeima for seven years. It is a question of an open presidential election. I think if we did this, then we will also be able to deal with the issue of quick loans. Quick loans - this is the thing that makes people addicted. There are 174 thousand people in Latvia who are unable to meet their obligations in good time, delay their payments... delays of up to EUR 200. People become dependent on quick loans. Read the news! Social care centres have small salaries (the story of Latvian Television)... People are forced to take quick credit and to pay for their own health care services in time for them – because of the high number of rows they are not available – and to pay their debts. People depend on quick loans. It turns out that the state is also dependent on them... And there are side effects on this state - that is, a drop in purchasing power. People who are in high debt shift their future income not to buy things for their family or for themselves, go to a local store to spend this money or to a hairdresser, but to pay those debts; they either repay all of this money to the companies or bailiffs if they are already in debt recovery. In London, when we spoke to our people in the Diaspora discussions and the Streamenai, they quietly admitted: “Yes, also because of the quick loans... “ The fact that they are in debt is the cause of emigration from Latvia. It is loud, so very daring, of course, that none of them wants to admit. The shadow economy, the dependence of entrepreneurs on fast loans. When the Association of the Regions of Latvia presented these amendments in order to limit the interest on quick loans to 25 percent, Jānis Endzins came from the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and said in a clear text that there was a huge problem for all Members. The Ministry of Finance forces entrepreneurs to go out of the shadow economy, from envelope wages, not pay wages in envelope. It is important for us to...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U64	Mr. Smilten, all due respect, but please talk about 1. - Mr Klavin's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U65	I'm talking... I am referring to the first proposal. When I was in a coalition, you didn't stop so much. In opposition, there is a much more difficult situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You shouldn’t have left, Smilten!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U66	Please turn to the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U67	Entrepreneurs point out that when people come to apply for a job at the moment when there is a lack of work hands... ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) I am referring to the proposal. I have justified my criticism of this proposal. They base this on the fact that people who come to apply for a job require that they pay envelope wages because they have debts in companies with high-speed loans. Media dependence, too. It was shocking to find that the advertising budget was 15 million. And even for “Latvian Television” 16 percent of the advertising budget is made up of quick loans from companies. We need to find these 700 thousand to compensate for this. And then, when it comes to this proposal, the question arises: what is the dependence of politicians on quick loans? For what was submitted by the Association of the Regions of Latvia before our proposal... there was a very complex system that could be graphically illustrated as follows. If someone was asked what the maximum ceiling was, then there was a complicated multi-stage “step” - 0.55 percent per day, so more than 200 percent per year, and so on. We are tabling a completely clear regulation of 25 per cent per year and a point. The question of this proposal, tabled by the Union of Greens/Farmers - Kļaviņš, has also been tabled by Mr Rasmanis, but now there are references... wants to return to this complex system and, from 25 percent, actually eight times this rate to 200 percent. How big is political dependence? That is a question at the moment. Please, two more minutes. I'll use it this time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U68	Do Members have reservations if both speaking times are combined? Members object. Mr Smilten, you can apply again for the second speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U69	But I asked you to extend it. ( The box “No! ”) ; “Sustainable!” “Let’s talk!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U70	I understand, but Members object. Please call me! Wait, let's vote! Please call me! Let us vote in favour of extending the speaking time by bringing together both speaking times, Edward Smilten. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 12, for - 2. Hence, speaking time is extended by combining both speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U71	Thank you, colleagues. I know addiction is a hard topic. Also the dependency on quick credit. But I'll talk about it. My hands have a fantasticly beautiful tract that I received in my mailbox. There's a lot in the book about quick loans. I printed it up. It says here: “We will continue to limit the leverage of quick loans.” Champions! This proposal, which has been tabled, goes on from the same source, including COHESION... Identical to proposal 2. Mixes everything that the Association of the Regions of Latvia has achieved in five months, limiting the rates of quick loans. If we have achieved and the Saeima has voted twice already in two readings on the restriction of quick loans as a maximum rate of 25 per cent per year, then in one of the third readings rather than in the first, second... Is that so? The third, last, reading is accompanied by proposals that eliminate and destroy absolutely everything that we have been working on in these five months. These amendments are an example of the work of the Saeima, the impact of these fast credit companies. Two times in summer, a quorum was destroyed so that no further decisions could be taken... And yesterday, at the meeting of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, where agriculture was discussed... There wasn't... Yesterday, a proposal suddenly appeared from blue air on this issue, the whole of this bill, to be removed from today's agenda. I call for this proposal to be rejected, for us to keep a close eye on the table and for us to reject all the proposals aimed at restricting quick loans at a maximum interest rate of 25 per cent per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U72	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U73	Dear Saeima! We often talk about the fact that there are welfare problems in the country, that there are problems getting many people out of poverty; that investments will not develop, that production will not develop, and that many other sectors will not develop; that people do not have capital. The reason for this is the absolutely bad financial system, which is now the result of the lobbying of banks and also non-bank lenders. If we look at the interest rate on the deposit of the largest bank in Latvia, Swedbank now offers 0,05 per cent per year for those who have deposited money. 0.05 per cent a year! This means that you will receive 50 cents at the end of the year by placing EUR 1 000 a year in a deposit. It is an opportunity offered by a bank so that people can contribute to their wealth. Over the course of the year, a person with 50 cents can earn EUR 1000. At the same time, we are hearing a discussion today... The Commission has incorporated the rule that this amount would be 0,07 per cent per day (not per year, but per day) for credit, for fast credit. , and this is already a very large threshold. At the same time, the Group SAVES, as well as certain members of the FAO Group, have acted so cynically that they have submitted to maintain the existing order... 0.20 per cent per day, not per year... If we convert the amount of these deposits offered by Swedbank, its interest rate is 0.00013698 per day. It is simply an inadequate difference between deposits and credit amounts... According to the proposal of SAVE and Ascolda Kļaviņš, when receiving a credit, a person has to pay 1460 times more than it is possible for him to earn by using a similar financial instrument. That's also why so many people get into trouble, they can't pay. These days, several such lobbyists approached me, asking: “What if the whole system is closed, there will be no quick credit?” I said, “Very good!” Overall, this sector should be eliminated because it does not contribute to the well-being of the people. If people with money problems borrow, they only increase these problems, not decrease them. They need to review how they live rather than enter even deeper credit, including interest payments. Finally, I would like to say that I really did not like this fast credit business because I've had experience. Man has unwittingly borrowed and then came into ever deeper debts until... Successfully eventually he managed to help this man not to take away the apartment, not to take away the house. It's stupid about how to solve everything through a person's honest work! That's stupid! With such rates of fruiting, a person with a minimum wage of Latvia or a salary slightly above the minimum wage will never get out of this debt threshold. I really believe that the Group has acted in an absolute way, trying to keep the 73 per cent rate per year. Seventy-three per cent per year! This is a fantastic business! ( Insight: Tell us about America!) ) If we... Annual interest rate... ( Milestones.) And in this case, I think it is simply a laughter, as a social-democratic party, because their aim is not to increase the well-being of society, but on the contrary! - reduce it so that you can drive in nice cars.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U74	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U75	Colleagues! Mr Smilten's speech also made me think about how many faces he had personally. I remember in 2015, when we... When previously there were no restrictions on annual interest rates, when we took the first step towards the introduction of a ‘step’, you worked, Mr Smilten (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “It was another Smilten!” ) Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Development. Then in this commission the most difficult thing was to convince you, you had to conduct individual discussions in order to limit this rate to at least 200 percent. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Solvita did not allow it!” ) We, the Union of Greens/ Farmers, will support the text adopted at second reading (and this will also be demonstrated by the vote). It is the strictest rate that is, it is also the rate that you are heading. And in fact, at this moment I understand you, Mr. Smilten. Five per cent is very far away, but with this bill you will hardly achieve these five per cent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U76	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U77	Good morning, colleagues! I just wanted to call on you to respect yourself and us all the time, because for 20 minutes we dedicated to the proposal that has been tabled by a Member who is no longer in the Saeima. This proposal is not supported by the Commission, and no one is going to vote on it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “But he is not dead!” ) No one is going to vote for it! And thank you, of course... All this is because Delfos is live today's event, so we're doing here... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “You have live daily!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U78	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U79	Yes, honourable colleagues, I will just add that no political group, no Member has supported this proposal, and the Union of Greens/farmers has also separated itself from this proposal. The request to take account of the decision taken by the Commission and not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U80	Do Members agree? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Klavin's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 0 to - 86, refrains - not. Consequently, the proposal has been unanimously rejected, and the proposal has not been supported. The proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U81	Yes, 2 has been withdrawn. And 3, also Ascolda Kļavins's proposal, is not supported. The request shall not be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U82	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U83	4. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U84	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U85	5. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U86	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U87	6. - Ascold Klavin's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U88	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U89	7. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U90	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U91	8 / 8 - the Group's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U92	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U93	9. - Immant Debtor's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U94	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U95	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This proposal includes a restriction on people aged 18 and 19 to receive fast-forward consumer credits, because it would be quite logical if those who are still in school step were not so supported. Because at some point its needs are moments of a moment's weakness. And if we look at some of the ads that are devoted to this audience, then we see that one of the ads simply shows the way we should deal with our dreams... It also calls this ad: “Realize your dreams!” Sitting a girl at school. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “married?” ) She is suspicious and at some point takes her smartphone, and there she suddenly has an offer... 24 hours a day, seven days a week... to realize your dreams - go to some distant place. She suddenly gets happy, presss this button and receives dream money on her account. And while the rest stay in school, she's happy to leave. Just cynical advertising! And the people to whom it is directed are the audience of the oldest classes. At the Commission meeting, we also discussed whether we really wanted to restrict those who are studying at a university already at 19 years of age. At the age of 18, others, as Mr. Kaimiņš said, may have had a family. Should they, too, be subject to such restrictions? There are certainly some exceptional cases. But the main argument why this proposal was not supported in this form is that it could also include student and student credits. Well, that is certainly not the aim of this proposal. Unfortunately, for a limited time, because the Commission was indeed working on other proposals to get us to the final reading in this sitting, the Commission did not prepare its proposal, even though there were different versions, as it could look like in terms of transitional provisions. And I think we... I hope that we will come back to the issue of these restrictions sometime in the near future (as in the next Saeima). And those restrictions could be that they wouldn't write "student credit", "student credit", because there could be some versions back there, but they would set some reflection time. Young people aged 18 or 19 could be expected to have 48 hours of waiting when they apply for such credit. And if a person reasserts after 48 hours that he really wants it and that this is not the desire that has arisen as a result of a sorcerer... In that case, there could be a restriction of this kind. But given that the scope of this proposal was not balanced in the Commission so that it could be supported, I withdrew this proposal because the most important proposals are the next one that is our... or my colleague... submitted in connection with advertising. Goal. All colleagues (also in my group - the Group of the National Alliance) are in principle in favour of this proposal, but our aim is not to impose such restrictions as would then be to give back this draft law to the Saeima for re-reading. That is why I withdrawn this proposal. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U96	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U97	This is the next proposal from Member Edward Smilten, which has been partly supported and included in Amendment 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U98	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U99	Yes, colleagues! Interest rate. Limiting interest rates and the cost of these loans is one of the problems, because in principle, those people who take these loans are people who have no alternative access to credit. Consequently, lower interest rates - this is one problem. The other thing. The advertising budgets for high-speed loans, i.e. for the non-bank sector, as we learned from the Commission, are EUR 15 million per year. ( Internouncing call.) 15! Then the Latvian Advertising Association said that 15. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Property: “Five!” ) Five or 15... OK, but that's millions! This impact on the media, this impact on people, including young people, including... There are also young people who, without parents saying so, have gone into these spirals of debt. Then parents need to save their children and pay their debts. These ads provide an idea of a quick way to get money... which is very expensive, which you don't understand at that point... to use it at that time for some, perhaps even pleasant things... There are people who, of course, need to deal with urgent matters. But in any case, there is even the fact that when we are discussing quick loans and the restrictions on the election of pre-elections in a Diaspora... When we were... all advertising breaks have quick loans. Therefore, the second problem that the Association of the Regions of Latvia is trying to address with these amendments is the restrictions on advertising. Colleagues, this proposal partly supports it and is reflected below in the Commission's proposal. Mr Debtor and Mr Zarins have also spoken on the same subject. And that's why I call you to abstain... because it is partially supported... and support the Commission's proposal. But one thing we have to do about advertising. It was really shocking, with the NEPLP representatives talking about this problem, how many media budgets consist of quick loans... Also on “Latvian Television” these 16 percent of the budget comes from fast loans... That's almost 700 thousand euros! Colleagues, when we work on the budget, it is imperative that we find EUR 700 000. We can do that. In order to compensate the public media for such loss of advertising, to remove dependency on quick loans, so that there would no longer be such advertising. I therefore call for support for the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U100	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U101	As colleagues have already said, this proposal has been partly supported and incorporated in 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U102	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U103	11. - Immanta Debtor's proposal, which is also partly supported and included in 21 - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U104	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U105	As Mr Smilten said, one of the main factors limiting quick credit would be precisely brainwashing about how comfortable and easily available credit is. I think each day has noticed how this happens on both television and radio. And the fact that the broadcasters are against these amendments is in some way self-evident, even though the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers already contain restrictions that prohibit advertising... there are certain conditions that must be met in order to be able to place advertising. However, as I have already said, when it comes to the previous proposal, it is not close to all the companies, and they cannot even get caught. And that is why there is a need for restrictions of a kind that would completely deny this advertising. Just like it's with gambling. It's nothing new. And with the additional amendments we incorporated into the Commission's proposal... There have already been three proposals on restrictions. There was Mr Smilten, there was Mr Zarin and there was my proposal - this specific one. Everyone had a possible wider or smaller scope limit, but when we met together in a working group, we agreed that this should be applied to any form of advertising. What else was important? The fact that we also impose restrictions on brand advertising. Because if a company that provides quick loans advertises in a public order, it is simply not acceptable in any way. In advertising that is broadcast, not only uses animation, cartoon... In this way, even a child looks from a young child and has an interest, and in fact he is immersed in that it is a good thing. Also such a character as Mairis Briedis, who hardly needs fast credit, calls for this service. Let's get this thing off the agenda once and for all! Where else will the great contribution be? The players in the fast credit sector are so generous that advertising prices will become more expensive. With this, we will simply make them much more accessible. Perhaps non-governmental organisations will now be more able to afford social campaigns, because they will not have to compete with fast credit companies. So, too, I call on this proposal... I call for no vote because the Commission's proposal, which is the 21st proposal, has been drawn up. Because this proposal has been partly supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U106	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U107	The proposal is partly supported, colleagues, and I also ask you to stick to it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U108	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U109	The next proposal - Amendment 12 - is the proposal by Ascold Kļaviņš, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U110	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U111	13. - The proposal from Member Valdis Nanozols. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U112	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U113	Hello, brothers and gentlemen! I wanted to ask Mr. Smilten... You also asked the other Members, and also the media, why are you not talking about this proposal from the STECF? Why is this silence in relation to this fisheries proposal? Because this proposal is not a cosmetic repair that Mr Smilten and everyone else are talking about here. That's... If we see that there is a rotten structure, we do not paint it, as Mr. Smilten does, but replace it. Mr. Nanozol proposes to replace this rotten construction with a new one. I have repeatedly reminded myself that fruiting is devastating. Do you really not understand and see that fertility is devastating?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why don't you want to see that? Why do you want to fly around and paint something? Is that incomprehensible?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And what else I want to say to some people who perhaps don't know about the economy, about banking things: there are banks, the world's leading banks, which don't give money on money, but work very well. Well, there's this opportunity! It's not that only fruit should be given. And these are my specific proposals... I do not understand why the Commission did not support them. Because last time it was examined by the Commission, he said that it did not comply with the Civil Law. I have created this proposal in a way that complies with civil law. What else would I like to say to those people? A.Kamiņš: “Don’t say anything!” ), which did not support my proposal, particularly Mr Smilten? Don't be cheap! Why? I used to have a business... I know the rules of the bribery game. ( The box “Ooo! ”) ) That is 10 to 50 per cent of the result. Where is... Is that so? At this point, we are talking about 70 million of fast credit providers and 400 million of banks. Killen, you're... Odeshevilles! You have to have at least 10 million in your pocket if you're against this proposal! Don't be cheap, buddy! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “He’s not cheap! 10 million is not small!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U114	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U115	Yeah. We rejected this proposal in the Commission because Member Nanozol had not come to the sitting. In the Commission, we have agreed: if a Member does not come to defend his proposal, we reject it. Everyone has the opportunity to come and defend. The lawyers also raised some objections to this proposal. It is therefore not supported. And so that the Commission could move forward more quickly with the draft law, we rejected this proposal. The request shall not be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U116	Mr. Nanozol, are you asking for a vote? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Calnosol: “Yes!” ) Yes. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 29, for - 31, for - 31. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U117	Okay. Next and 14. - Mr Smilten's proposal, which has been partly supported and included in Amendment 15. Consequently, the Smilten proposal is dealt with in proposal 15, which is the proposal of the committee responsible. This is partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U118	Members want to vote. A vote is required. Please call me! ( Insight: ‘ Against! ’) ) To be put to the vote on 14 - Mr Smilten's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 0 to - 28, refrains - 53. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U119	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the committee responsible's proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U121	16. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, has not been supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U122	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Finance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 31, for - 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U123	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U125	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U127	19. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U128	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U129	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Ivars Zarins' proposal. Partly supported and included in proposal 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U130	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U131	Colleagues! This proposal concerns restrictions on advertising on the basis of which the Commission has drafted its own version. As you have heard, a similar proposal has been made by both Mr Debtor and Mr Smilten. We met together (Military.) and produced this version, and it was the so-called economic working group that I was entrusted with managing and preparing these proposals. My proposal - I am calling for support for this Commission proposal and I am not voting for it at all. And what else would I like to call... with this pre-election rhetoric do not get too close and figure out hero stories and fights against a bull that is not at all. As you can see from a SAID vote, nothing similar to what is being accused is happening. So that I call everyone to account for their own words and their works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U132	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U133	So Zarina's proposal is partly supported, incorporated in 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U134	Yes, and the Member does not ask for a vote. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U135	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U137	22. - Ascold Klavin's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U138	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U139	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U140	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U141	24. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U142	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U143	Hello, colleagues! I would like to remind you that this draft law is not only about quick loans, but also about other consumer rights challenges. At the second reading of the draft law, I have already proposed to separate consumer credit from mortgage credit and not to extend the rules on consumer lending, which stipulates that the borrower is responsible for commitments with all income and wealth, and mortgage lending based on other rules. In particular, the real estate for which credit is taken shall serve as sufficient collateral to enable the full discharge of liabilities towards the creditor. Although this principle of mortgage lending is ideally enshrined in the Consumer Rights Protection Act, because by placing the key to the banker's table, the borrower terminates his obligations and the bank no longer owes anything, the protection of mortgage borrowers is not the main aim of this principle. It aims at a new regulation of house prices, which will lead to higher house prices leading to real prices. This is due to the fact that in the market the supply of housing is balanced with the willingness of banks to lend money against mortgage and this balance is achieved through the stabilisation of lending prices. If the value of the property to be acquired has been determined as sufficient collateral to remove the full liability of the creditor, the issuing of a risky credit above the value of the pledge becomes a risk and the seller is therefore also forced to reduce the price. The price will not be bloated, but it will remain close to the cost of housing. During the meeting of the Commission, the representative of the banking sector argued that a very large number of house purchase transactions are carried out in cash rather than borrowing in banks, and that therefore the price regulation mechanism in mortgage lending will not affect prices in the housing market. I stressed that it would have an impact. It is mortgage lending that will not allow cash transaction prices to rise, as the buyer will know that borrowing in the bank can buy a house at a lower price than in a cash transaction. Thus, if mortgage lending is carried out on the basis of the key principle laid down, it will pull down housing prices also in cash transactions. I understand that taking the law to reduce the liabilities of a mortgage borrower until the value of the mortgaged property is psychologically not easy with the inclusion of a single paragraph in the law. I therefore propose that the new government prepare amendments to the law in the context of the relevant economic analysis. It will take time. I propose that it should be given four and a half months to do the relevant work and to calculate the budget for 2020 by 2 March, taking into account the new conditions for mortgage lending. It is worth noting that no Member voted against my proposal in the committee. The vote was divided between those who voted in favour and those who abstained. Three voted in favour and six abstained. Dear Members, I ask for my proposal to be supported today by voting 'in favour' in order to start working on the basis of cost-based calculations and in line with the interests of the citizens in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U144	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U145	Yes, colleagues! This proposal did not support the Commission. This is about so-called 'keys'. And now, taking credit, a person has the opportunity to choose what kind of contract he signs, whether he just mortgaged his property and guaranteed the repayment of the credit, or whether he enters into another type of agreement.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U146	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U147	The request is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U148	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For 25, for 15, for 45. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U149	25. is the proposal of Member Zarina, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U150	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U151	26. It is a proposal from the commission responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U153	And 27 is also the proposal of the committee responsible, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U154	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U155	Colleagues! This law will enter into force, similar to the amendments to the Satversme, from 1 January of next year. With all due respect! And I have also changed my views on the Group of the Greens/Farmers' Union (Interinstitutional statement) who have voted out in fact all their proposals to raise this... These rates. And we've protected... We have given the public confidence and assurance that the state will protect people from getting into debt and that the state will guarantee that no interest rate on loans will exceed 25 per cent. Throughout this stage, this half-year... That is why I would also like to thank the Commission's head, Roman Money, who held the process quite firmly in his hands so that this draft law could experience daylight today. So, thank you all. And I call for the draft law to be supported - and therefore also to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U156	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U157	Killen, don't deceive the people's eyes! The only proposal from the FAO concerned the people. Others took care of those dealing with credit and fertility.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U158	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U159	Mr Smilten, you can also come to apologies for all the demagogy that you have brought against the SAMAN. And those Members of the National Alliance who dared to say this... Because, as you can see, the treaty has also supported these amendments, all the same. So... as we see, if we work together without pre-election populism, we can do many good things for our country. I invite you to think about it after the elections!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U160	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, is there anything to add to the deadline for the entry into force of the law?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U161	Nothing is to be added. Request to support the proposal
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U162	Please call me! Do Members want to vote in favour? There was a debate. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U163	All the proposals have been examined, colleagues. Thank you for your work and support this draft law. Request for support for final reading
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on consumer protection! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. (Applause) Dear colleagues, The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to make changes to the agenda of the meeting and to review the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” (No 1360/Lp12) at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We are continuing with the examination of the draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U165	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption discussed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”, for which 22 proposals were submitted. 1 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U167	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U169	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U171	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U173	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U175	6. - the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which has been partly supported and included in the 7th parliamentary report. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U176	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U177	7. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U179	8 / 8 - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partly supported, included in the proposal of Commission 9 and Commission 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U181	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U183	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U185	11. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U187	12. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U189	13. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partially supported, included 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U190	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U191	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U192	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U193	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U195	16. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U197	17. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U198	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U199	18. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U200	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U201	19. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U203	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partially supported, included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U205	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U206	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U207	22. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U209	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U210	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 82, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior’s system of institutions and administration of prison places with special service levels in the law on service progress”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U211	In its meeting of 18 September this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined three draft laws which are on the agenda of today's Saeima sitting and can be seen at third reading. And the first one is the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Service Degrees in the Ministry of Service Law”. Only one proposal was submitted to the third reading. It was submitted by the Legal Office of the Saeima and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U213	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U214	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior system institutions and the administration of prison places with special service levels in the law on service progress” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. And on the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of the Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Administration of Prison Sites with Special Degrees of Service”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U215	As I mentioned, the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Administration of Prisons with Special Degrees of Service” was discussed and prepared for the third reading in the committee on 18 September before the third reading. As no proposals were submitted at the third reading, please support the draft law at third, final, reading on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U216	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Administration of Prison Places with Special Degrees of Service” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. And on the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U217	Before the third reading, the Commission also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Police” (No 1181/Lp12) and prepared it for the third reading. Neither has any proposal been submitted to this draft law either, so on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U218	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U220	On the agenda - Draft law on National Security Act, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U221	Good morning, colleagues! Third reading. Six proposals have been received for the draft law on amendments to the National Security Act. 1 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U223	2. there is a motion from Member Julia Stepanenko that has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U224	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U225	Dear colleagues, Would you sign a contract whose terms are not visible to you? I think that even Mr Sergeant and Mr Srollish would not sign such a treaty. But if we are talking about the law, we can imagine that we are here empowered persons who have been mandated by our people to adopt laws. So we actually sign for voters. We are going to sign a treaty today that includes conditions that people will not be able to understand and see at all. This is about the duties of the people in the event of war. This is the biggest innovation in these amendments. I would remind you that Article 23.5 of the amendments provides for the implementation of comprehensive national protection. This means that everyone will have to work together - both the NBS, municipalities and natural and legal persons - and implement both civil protection measures and armed resistance. Does this mean that all civilians will have to go to war? Yeah, it's absolutely possible. This results from these amendments. I do not know why comprehensive national defence is being built without the involvement of NATO soldiers. Why? Perhaps because we cannot legally impose an obligation on NATO soldiers from other countries, but the tasks of NATO soldiers will be binding on our citizens. Because citizens will be given two new responsibilities in case of war: not to cooperate with illegal government institutions and to implement comprehensive state defence, to fulfil both the tasks of the NBS and NATO troops. We remember that comprehensive national protection includes both civil protection measures and armed resistance. What will these challenges be, and what specific actions will our civilians be required to take? Will the challenges be related to armed resistance or civil protection or both? That is not clear from the draft law, honourable colleagues. Likewise, it is not clear from the draft law how the tasks given to soldiers, NATO soldiers, will differ from those given to the NBS. And where are the legal persons who at first fighed together in the defence of the comprehensive state? Why are they not required to do so? Was it not the case that the authors of the draft law thought: “What is it that you don’t have to deal with legal entities? Cameras, confederations and associations will appear in the commission right away. Let's just put it all on civilians - they're going to tolerate it!' Colleagues! The rules issued by the legislator must be of high quality and be clearly understandable. The law is dangerous if it is freely interpreted, as new obligations for citizens will at some point be imposed a penalty for non-compliance with such an obligation. This scope is too wide, and the tasks given may cover both civilian rescue measures and the organisation of armed resistance. And this, here, is a subject for discussion. In May of this year, the President of Latvia drew attention to how easily and quickly an unthought-out idea could become a binding law. And what are we doing today? That is why I propose: once you impose obligations on the population in the event of war, they must relate only to civil protection measures. Then it is clear what tasks military will have for the population. In addition, I call for the provision of this article to be limited to the military of the NCS. Why not NATO troops? Personally, I am not sure that ordinary civilians will understand the language or will be able to distinguish between the shape of NATO soldiers and those of ours. For safety reasons, such experiments should not be authorised. Colleagues! I call on you to support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U226	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U227	Highly honored Saeima! Mrs Stepanenko, you asked me a rhetorical question: would I sign under such contractual terms? My answer is: “Yes! I'll sign!’ Because, after all, we're in these amendments... In these amendments, the National Security Law is not about the conditions of peace, but about the weather of war. In this case, I think... I hope that the parliamentary colleagues will agree that 599 long months of occupation, and months of Nazi and Soviet occupation, have taught us sufficiently well that occupation powers must be resisted. That's what we... we have already adopted amendments to the National Security Law in the past. In this case, I would call on Mrs Stepanenko not to mislead the public about the NATO command system within the common framework of the National Armed Forces of Latvia. Latvia is a member of NATO, and Latvian soldiers and soldiers are also part of the NATO system. Let's not confuse this chain of command! Let us not deceive society! I call for such a proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U228	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U229	In substance, these amendments introduce a comprehensive concept of national protection. These are a number of amendments, and now we have reached the third reading. It has not been easy. Basically, what we all need to know, and society, is that with these amendments we set out that it is the duty of every citizen not to cooperate with the occupation power. But at the same time everyone has the right to resist. And that is the main point of these amendments. Obligation not to cooperate with the occupations and the right to oppose occupation. I call on you not to support Julia Stepanenko's proposal. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U230	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U231	I would like, in turn, to read what the Russian army controlled media Zvezda writes about these amendments to the law in an online publication. They claim that in the event of a military conflict, the people of Latvia are offered to defend themselves. The channel also refers to the report of the Ministry of Defence of Latvia on comprehensive state protection. It is claimed that in this document the country actually declares the inability to ensure the security of its citizens, therefore Latvian citizens should be held accountable for themselves and their loved ones in the future. Only a few self-organisation models are offered. The report adds that it is now necessary to modernise the state defence system in Latvia, which is based on the readiness of society and the state to overcome the crisis in a way that is no longer possible by military means alone. That's what Zvezda says. And I mean, given these claims, it's absolutely clear that we're on the right track if a medium like the Snake is worried about it. So I ask you to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U232	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U233	I would recommend that Mr Sergeant read not the media, but the bill he worked on in the commission. Because it is likely that he does not fully understand that there are both responsibilities and rights. You are currently confused, Mr Sergeant, like Mr Latkovsky, with his rights. Of course, citizens have the right to resist, but we are now talking about citizens' responsibilities when we look at my proposal. And these are two different things. Because without duty... sanctions also take place. And, colleagues, it is very cowardly to really impose on the civilian population the responsibilities that you are afraid of now discover. You have no responsibilities for the sheep bar! You impose obligations on taxpayers.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U234	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U235	Yeah... Well, I understand that Mrs Stepanenko just denied the great partisan movement in the Great Ethic War. So I am calling for a 'no' vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U236	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 54, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U237	3 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U239	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partly supported. Incorporated 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U240	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U241	5. - The proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U242	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U243	Hello, dear colleagues! I call for a vote against 5. - the Commission's proposal to maintain the wording that we adopted at second reading, which was... which stipulated that a citizen was obliged in case of war (I quote) “not to cooperate with illegal administrative bodies and armed units of an aggressor”. Now... A subsidiary sentence is added to the third reading: ‘except in cases where a refusal to cooperate endangers the life or liberty of a person or his family members’. So, by nature, the bowls for the collaboration are open. I believe that this is not right. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Defence, who also considered this to be wrong. And their argument was that it does not, in essence, motivate citizens to protect their country, but gives legal justification for not doing so. I therefore call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U244	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U245	My proposals also included the clause that civilians have the right not to cooperate with the occupation power if their relatives or themselves are in danger. But I would like to draw your attention to the poor quality of this draft law simply because the article we are talking about is called "Citizens' obligations and rights in the event of war or military invasion", but occupation... was not included in the second reading in the article on "Comprehensive national protection". That is, of course, a technical mistake, but it shows once again that, honourable colleagues, you are not working properly. You are reading the magazine Zvezda, looking at Russian television and following it for something to do with us. But you didn't follow the laws that you made.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U246	I closed the debate. The debate was closed. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U247	Yeah. In the Commission, we discussed this proposal quite extensively and in a long way, but the majority of the committee came to the conclusion that this proposal really deals with situations where the life threat to family members or loved ones is completely real and is not meant as... give you an opportunity to choose from your responsibility, but indeed in situations where your family may already have been exposed to recharged weapons. So I ask you to support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U248	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 30, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U249	And six. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U251	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U252	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 1, for - 19. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Protection Bureau”, third reading. Karlis Sergeant, Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U253	Only one proposal has been received for the third reading of this draft law. It is from the Legal Office of the Saeima, and it is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U255	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please also support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U256	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Protection Office” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U257	Carly! Carly! Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” (No 1140/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined a total of seven proposals submitted to this draft law. It has to be said that today the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy presented another draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, from which the issues related to administrative penalties and the system of decoding were identified so that this draft law could progress faster and be adopted. 1. there is a proposal from the commission responsible, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U259	2. - The proposal by Member Inese Aizstraut. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U260	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U261	3. - The proposal by Member Inese Aizstraut. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U262	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U263	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U265	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U267	6. - The proposal by Member Inese Aizstraut. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U268	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U269	And finally 7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U271	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U272	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” (No 1140/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U273	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety” (No 1288/Lp12). The draft law was examined and prepared by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy for the third reading. No proposals were received. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you, colleagues, to support this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U274	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration and Maritime Safety of the Sea”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Ringolds Balodis. But, honourable colleagues, I would like to inform you that Member Veiko Spolitis has references (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “My mandate!” ) its proposals (inter-referenda.) The draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use and fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB””.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U275	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Now, before you, there are amendments to the so-called Czech bag law, which are to be seen today at third reading. And basically this is the best that we were able to accept at the 12th Saeima, and I would like to thank all the members of the Commission, especially the Commission's Member Inese Laizāne, the Constitutional Protection Bureau and the National Archives of Latvia, who quickly joined in and helped to wipe out the norms of this historic legislative act. I would also like to condemn the withdrawal of my proposals by my colleague. I understand the fact that the group forced him to do so, and he would not do so from his own point of view. ( The box “It’s in the name of the commission? ”) ) But surely it was... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “What is it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U276	On behalf of the Commission, Mr Balozy!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U277	... bad legislation. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U278	Mr Baloža, you are the rapporteur for the Commission, you must speak on behalf of the Commission. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U280	The debate may be held, but the committee rapporteur shall speak on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U281	I also say, on behalf of the Commission, that it is not possible to submit, at third reading, unscrupulous, unscrupulous amendments to that extent. We can move on to looking at individual proposals. 1. - There's a Spolish motion from the Member. ( Independence: “Recalled! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U282	Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U283	I have to go through everything too, don't I?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U284	No, I have to say: the proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U285	Member Spolitis, proposal 1. Although he has responded, we must also go in step with this after the procedure, colleagues. The Commission has not supported the withdrawal of Ekek in October.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U286	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U287	2. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U288	So two. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. The Commission's opinion is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U289	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U290	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U291	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U292	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arvīds Ulme.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U293	Dear President, Honourable Members! I have already told you at previous reading that these check bags are practically... Insert... practically these check bags have been left to us to raft each other. Several months before we were given the check-bags to us by the security committee, the relevant staff of the security committee had come from Moscow, collected the entire card and took them to Moscow, where they are now storage happily - not in the bags, but in the boxes, in the shelves - and working. That is why I have already called for no more action on this waste left by the safety committee and this proposal is not to be supported. But I want to say something specifically about the absurdity of all this check bag. I want to say something specifically about my personal experience - which I have had to face for many decades as the only Czechist in Latvia. When the National Association voted against my Member's mandate (Inter-Charter) They knew well that my card was fictitious. They knew it well! And here's the testimony, Kronberg's testimony in his opinion on the case on 15 July 2003... Arvīds Ulme co-operation fact with the detection of the KGB. The Witness Aivars Kronbergs, who started working in February 1966 and worked until August 1990 in the KGB, showed that during the negotiations with Ulmi he may have been given an idea of cooperation, but he strongly rejected such a proposal. Since Ulmem has preserved old contacts with Riga's intelligence and he could have been operationally interesting... Since I had a good relationship with President Peterson and had a need to distract myself, it has been decided to fictitiously make Ulmi as an agent that has also been done. Verve as such has not happened, only documented documents. He has prepared all the documents for recruiting the agent, and Ulme has been turned on in the agency. The signature from Ulme has not taken and has chosen a pseudonym himself. It may be natural that there is such an open card because I am acting against some kind of mafia in the field of hazardous waste. It is pulled out, the dawn is built, and then it should stop. Clearly, its card is fictitious and acknowledges it. And there are many things you want to give to the public. Very much because then they too... they did the plan... and collected the budget... and so on. But it might be that this is my friend... he had left my card there for publicity and hadn't taken it... Put it in the Cream's cart. But then there was another fact, which was a decisive fact and which the nationals knew. And it's really... It's more than anyone, anybody! - Mayors. The centre to document the effects of totalitarianism has that... “You have been registered in the Information Analysis part of the State Security Committee as a member of a nationalist organisation or group that performs anti-socialist and anti-constitutional activities in the territory of the USSR - a person for whom operational material is important, a person whose facts and signs indicate that it is performing a nationalist, Latvian activity.” It was found in the Information Analysis section of the State Security Committee! And it wasn't just in Latvia... And it was actually a judgment, which already... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balodis: “We are not already in court! It should have been spoken in the court!” ) What court do I have to go to? What am I supposed to judge? Don't show me your finger! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) You go to Alexander’s high places where you came from! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Go back in place!” ) (The driver of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U294	Ladies and gentlemen, let us focus on the debate. ( The Room Noise) Mr Ulmes, I have to say that the debate is over. ( Interface: “Welcome to the Saeima! ” ) Do Members have reservations if Mr Ulmes brings together both speaking times? He spoke on this proposal... on the state of play of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U295	If the facts do not give me anything, then my works do. The first demonstration... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U296	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of extending the debate time for Member Arvīds Ulme by bringing together the first and second speaking time! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 5, for - 1. The time for the debate is therefore extended. Please continue. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U297	It may be that nobody had heard about the first informal and personally organised demonstration in 1987 at the VEF during the occupation, as well as about all the most ambitious mass demonstrations in 1988, the initiator, organiser and implementer, and the only one responsible - not being present as some, perhaps some task, but the organizer and the one responsible! - It was Arvīds Ulme. ‘ Black flag’ demonstration at the PSCP Education House. A demonstration “ Against the metro” in the park of Arkadija. The manifesto of the restoration of national symbolism in Mezaparks. International action “Praying by the Sea”, involving hundreds of thousands of participants from Lithuania and Estonia. A campaign “ Against Migration” in the Daugava stadium. Dainie Ivyan called for no one to walk on the radio... “If you come, there will be fire!” 'Cause they were training ball in the graves there. Who, then, organised all of this? Who responded? If someone was there, you just got a kick or... I was the only one responsible! And finally, the campaign “On the Suspension of the Operation of the PSPP”, which was the first anti-PSKP headquarters in the entire USSR. All over the USSR first against the PSKP! And there again... I was the only one! You know what a miracle? The nationals didn't come to that place! Because the main thing was that... ( Internouncing call.) They didn't! And then I realized I was betrayed. And the second time...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U298	Thank you. Mr Ulmes, the extended debate is now also over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U299	I'll just say that... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Go to the street and tell it!” ; intermediate: “Come on, come on!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U300	The debate is over. Mr Ulmes, the time for the debate... please turn off the microphone! The debate is over. Mr Ulmes, I am sorry. Your debate is over! Mr Ulmes, you really have a microphone turned off! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Ulme speaks to an off microphone. Idle: “ You have a microphone turned off! Go to your place!” ) Colleagues, I call for respect to be given to the parliamentary roll of order and the time allowed for the debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U301	Hello, brothers and sisters! I would like to defend Arvid and also oppose... and to oppose this wording, which is written in this proposal. Yeah, check bags... I fully agree with this definition in this proposal... Czech bags shall be an instrument for manipulating the public, its views, officials, law enforcement authorities, Members and the media. The only thing I would like to add is that it is still in use today. And that's why the specs are against the fact that these bags are being opened. And if we're talking about Arvid, then all this eloquence that happens to Arvid is, in my opinion, organised directly through these Czech bags, with this instrument, with these people sitting in these Czech bags. And in the people... What is happening for the moment? Our people's presupposing, nothinging, defamation. Not calling for system change... It is also the hand work of this instrument. I'm sorry. Also the fact that for my party - for the ZZS... walking around people and saying they're thieves. I'm sorry. That's also the handmade work of this instrument! They're doing this. It's a rumor. And those people sitting next to this man are connected to them. There's evidence of this. And also the Communist gag, which is taking place lately. I do not know why it is for the 13th Saeima that these Communists are disgusting. In all the rest of the Saeima, we were not talking about Communists. This, in my opinion, is precisely the work of this instrument, which is still being used. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Yes, I fully agree with Arvīds. Cheque bags have been cleaned. Like the KGB officers... ‘Alfa’ list. Examples include KGB officers such as Juris Dimitris. SAB and the Security Police say there is no such officer, there was no such officer! So when it heals properly... And the Canger Commission explores -- there's such an officer! These check bags have indeed been audited. As the people say, some of us who sit here have also been taken out. Social networks say about people, about our colleagues, who are even under the control of the security service. I'm sorry, guys, these check bags are a lot of dirt! And in fact, in my opinion, nothing in this house has changed much from the time of the GPSR when the Supreme Council was here. This open vote, too... as if we were unanimously in favour. Just coming back here... So you don't have to tell me about some of the highest democratic achievements. Yes, there are enough people loved by the people who signed this Faust Treaty in Czech bags. By opening these bags, in a way, it will also be a specic in the face of the people for the fact that many of these Czech bags have respected, loved and somewhat adored. But, in my opinion, the most important thing is to light up those KGB officers who have been recruiting, who have manipulated these people using the human qualities... have been manipulated by trained KGB officers. It is these who should be put on a torture stake for what they have done with our people. Because it is these KGB officers who betray the people. And what would I say at the end of the day? Why should these bags be opened? If we want an executive power that is effective, targeted and motivated to the well-being of the people of the country, then there is a hurry to bring light to this instrument, which is manipulated by the executive power, the judiciary, to us - the decision-making power - and the media power. Media power, too, with you, too, forgive, manipulate! I have evidence. And I'd like to ask Wyko Spolitis, what happened to you, buddy? And what do you have to do with our security services and your check bags?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U302	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously we will continue the debate after the break. Members of Abu Meri, Brigmanis, Rubiks, Kleinberg and Dzintars ask for a 30-minute break, i.e. by 13.00. Do Members have objections? Members agree. So we decide to announce a break by 1 p.m. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to a member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U303	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ringolds Balodis... Yes, Artis Gustovskis, Jelena Lazareva, Rihards Melgailis... is, thank you, Romanas Mežeckis, Inguna Silver, Jānis Trupovnieks and Jānis Urbanovičs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U304	Interruption until 1 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U305	Honourable Members! I invite everyone to take their seats in the Chamber. We continue the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda is the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB”, third reading. And we're in the debate at 3. - a proposal submitted by the Legal Office. We are continuing the debate which started before the break. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U306	So, I can start if? Dear colleagues, As for what I said, last week we had a serious discussion in the Commission about what to do with the employees of nomenclature: to include it or another provision of the law in order to publish? The second book - the second book! - It's enough to write. com, which contains the names of all employees of this nomenclature. There is Mr. Brigmann, there is Mr. Wagn, there is Mr. Gorbunov and many others. I took it from the Saeima Library, and I'll take it after the sitting so you can read it... Very interesting literature, by the way! I want to talk about procedure and speed. Well, that's not a pace! At the moment, I am very much in agreement with what Valdis Kalnozols said. Really! Whatever it is, no matter what I tell you now, let's say the same Ulme: "How could I be a Czechist if I wasn't? How could I organise an event if I wasn't a Czech? And someone has to do with the Czechist and... ?” Well, such things can tell and tell. It has to be told in court. I've taken one good newspaper here - "The Independent Morning News" and the issue of October 1 is quite analytical... I would say, laconic and analytical work written by Viktors Avotiņš. And its name is “Cheka bag - cushion for the comfort of power”. And the author says, in fact, the opening of the bags, on the one hand, seems to place a public stamp on the one hand, and on the other, it would be good to have scientific comments on the other. And he admits that the KGB... The panel is unable to comment on them. Of course, it is clear that we need to do this once. I hope that the President's hand will not mask unemployment and that he will not return to the rereading of this law and that he will proclaim it. Because if we're talking about examples of the lustration of different countries... Well, this just will be an exception to what... The history books will tell the children how Latvians opened their check bag for the fourth century. And if the President of Latvia does not announce, will we not accept another quarter of the century? Well, what is it at all, well?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And I would also like to note what Mr Avotiņš says and what Mr Nanozol spoke about - about the critical reaction and negative statements. I'd rather literally say what Avotiņš writes. He says: “... I was less or less saddened by the just-stated statement by Chief of the Security Police (DP) Normunds Mežunkas that publication of the KGB cartet “may pose certain risks to national security”. Just like SAB CEO Jānis Maiziņš, this publication “can be used by unfriendly countries”. The reason was that such a refrene has been repeated for almost 30 years. In the early 1990 ’ s, I published my first text that the contents of Czech bags should become open. And I was absolutely not worried about whether I was in those bags or not.” I think colleagues, we can speak here, of course, in different ways in the face of pre-election, but... We're not going further! You shouldn't go on with this story! Yeah, it's not good. Yes, there are no comments. But what's the fault? Let's go to another commission, huh? Let's get another half a million to do nothing again? If we don't learn otherwise, I'm sorry. And I want to conclude my speech with one quote from the cosmos. Murphy's law is as follows: measured with a micrometer, marked with a crease and beat with an axe. I think it reminds us of this whole process, which lasts for 25 years. We've been here for 25 years... Come on, colleagues! Come on, we're men, or, as Nanosol says, the masters in their land, and let's end this!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U307	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U308	Colleagues! The proposal of the Legal Bureau gives the impression that previously the meaning of the law was not related to the need to inform the public about the occupation of the USSR, the funds used to preserve the occupation power; even before the law the meaning of the law was not to transfer the documents of the KGB to the public. I have to ask: have the KGB documents been stored for the purpose? Does the Soviet totalitarian and authoritarian discovery of a bureaucratic crime, including the fact of cooperation with the KGB... with the help of management processes... has not been intended to immunise society against totalitarian tendencies? The Minister of Justice Egils Levits referred to this fact during the discussion of this law on 24 February 1994, and the case-law and legal doctrine also referred to it. Is the title of the article of the law, ‘The use of KGB documents for scientific purposes and publication’, really imaginary? Good question. I highly appreciate the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission and the Working Party on the courage to open the law “On the preservation, use and fact of cooperation of individuals with the establishment of the KGB”. Because the former KGB saga in Latvian policy has continued for a generation. This time is long and shows the bodies of our historical heritage, but also points out, in particular, in the light of the upcoming parliamentary elections, that this issue does not really have a consecutive scientific examination. Instead of following the best examples of lustration policy in Central Europe - the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland... In the Federal Republic of Germany... in the former East Germany... In Germany... Estonia and Lithuania... With the third reading of this draft law, we have only taken half a step forward. Therefore, it does not solve the issue of the KGB as an instrument of a totalitarian system, does not promote public awareness and does not put an end to a wider study of the KGB documents.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U309	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U310	Dear colleagues, When I hear here from the Tribunal's first speech about the meaning and nature of this law, I will remind you that this is 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. And I am sure after this debate, too, which we have just heard here, that the KGB documents must be made public and published. And that is why, in order to achieve the objective set out in this proposal of 3, to promote society's ability to recognise and overcome the consequences of this regime, and to continue the development of Latvia as a democratic state and society, it must be done once!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U311	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U312	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I also wanted to congratulate the Legal Bureau on the successful wording, but that was what Ritvars Jansons managed to do before me. The wording is really accurate and very important. At the time when the Saeima postponed the immediate publication of the cheque bags and ordered this case to be done... Well, so to explain... for a special commission, the aim was that, you see, all these aspects should be explored as they were at that time. I can also say from my experience that, for example, what Arvīds Ulme did during the years of independence... Of course, there was the promotion of Latvia's independence - both working in the Environmental Protection Club and voting for Latvia's independence in the Supreme Council. A whole range of other people who may have cooperated in such or otherwise or who at least have these cards have done likewise. And then there can be two conclusions, both of which are wrong in their extremes, namely that independence was one thing that the Czechs did not need at all, or that all of these people really wanted to track up the processes. Apparently, this was not exactly so or otherwise. The truth is somewhere in the middle, and it must have been investigated by the commission. The Commission has done this in part because of the huge amount of work that has been done and there are many valuable studies. There is obviously no answer to my question, but it may have been time - consuming or because of other circumstances. What does that mean? This means that we now need to make all the documents as public as possible. That's one part. And the other part is that resources are needed to continue research into totalitarianism. And it's probably going to be a long job. It is not so essential that the institution that will do it is the one that will do it, but that, for a long time, there is enough resources to study totalitarianism. If these processes are not further investigated and analysed, there is, of course, a growing risk that they may recur at some point. I call for support to be given both to this proposal and to draft laws in more or less terms, as the commission has prepared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U313	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U314	Dear President, Honourable Members! I was also convinced by Arvīds Ulme's speech, and I think it is the third proposal that needs to be supported, because it involves examining the matter as such. And, you know, an extremely interesting document! I look at an archive application with Arvīds Ulme's signature on September 18, 2003. He requested that the case be terminated on the basis of Section 14(14) of the law “On the maintenance, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB”. Now I take it now, I see what the 14th part of this article says. It states: ‘If the person to be examined accepts the fact of cooperation and requests that the verification file be terminated, the case shall be terminated.’ So if he has recognised the fact of cooperation, the case must be closed. I admit that the signature has also been forged in time. I would go to the SAB instead of Mr Ulmes, make it clear who has then deceptively made such an application, and I could admit that he is really innocent. But if Mr. Ulmes doesn't go to the SAB, it turns out he's lying to us. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U315	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U316	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Members! I am pleased to support this proposal after the second reading... that all this ideology is compounded in the objectives of the bill. So that we do not come again to talk about the draft law as a whole and some further proposals... basically it's a question: how can a nation heal its historical trauma? And this is one very serious issue with far-reaching consequences. The task of politicians would be wise, empathetic, but disloyal to sort out the matter. In my opinion, we will have to adopt an irresponsible, mutilated law, but we cannot accept it. The worse you're going to be, the worse you're gonna be. So I will vote in favour. And why has this happened? The principle that the slogans, our political ambitions and sometimes human subjective ambitions - how to do this in a practical and technical way - has been maintained, too, in the first place. and someone's gonna come in after. Now we have one closing date - 1 May 2019 and it may seem that all the truths - the right truths - will be revealed in themselves. Well, I'll say: there's nothing! If I look at today's understanding of what it is like, I look at television interviews - both academics and famous directors are now shouting at the slogan level, and I think I don't understand much about what is in those cheque bags and what will really be revealed there. On that 1st May nothing will appear completely; well, if the small edge of the crust turns around! Here I remind you that all the time, however, we are focusing on 4,000 agents, which are only one fifth of those who have been. And... Yes, now, for example, interviews and revelations by KGB officer Boris Karpichkov! And there, too, you will have revelations about people who have cooperated... and who sit in very serious positions even today! You will say, "Let us not believe this one who is fleeing." All right! Let's believe more, then, those checkers who're left here? And if we do not change treatment, then it will end with small agents or small potential rapporteurs being brought to court, big ones being honoured. The question is also purely human. We all want to see politics, but... I will allow me to say purely humane: in 1991, when I worked in the version of Awake!, the list of rapporteurs came to our disposal... more than a hundred - creative workers, journalists, my immediate surroundings... Shocking findings. The lists were authentic and confirmed. But I will tell you this: very close men were there, yes, with whom I worked. But over these years, my human attitude to those on those lists has not changed. What I thought was a good person and who, I think, was a fair man, and I still think of him as well. And for those who seemed questionable to me, their doubts have remained. I would like to say that this is one very human issue. And to some who will be revealed there, there will be like a duck of water that they are in those sacks, and they will extort it, and no one will prove it there. And those people who take it very hard and who deserve it least - they may be the ones who suffer the greatest. All right! But not for them, I'm so worried about them now. I'm also interested in what's happening to those people who are so loud about this demonstration. What is the motivation there for those who have not been close to these events? And... Well, yes, it's time... We may be able to change this attitude. But in this case, I will say: let us not be too big before the elections that it is one well done job! Let us be honest about this as one work that was not done well, but it had to be done. And... Well, yes, as we did, it is, but let the people benefit! I'm in.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U317	The name of Member Arvīds Ulme, for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “He has already spoken, combining time! He can’t after the procedure!” ) Paga, I am sorry, Mr Ulmes, you joined both speeches if? So there's no way to talk. It's not possible. No, no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balož intermediates.) No, there's no way. No, there's no way to talk after the Order reel. Mr Ulmes, I understand your desire to speak, but we cannot. ( Interface: “You can talk to the next proposal! ” ) Name of Member Juris Viļums. ( Insight: “All good! Time is up! Yes, yes, yes!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U318	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, too, we are talking so much about this issue! When I became a member of the Saeima seven years ago, we already started to debate it. And today we will not handle those KGB bags, and we will have to talk about it for some time. Therefore, it seems to me - as a person born in 1982, last century - that it is necessary, however, to open up more quickly. Yeah, it's gonna hurt someone, but let's talk, let's ask... Maybe one of my relatives has cooperated with the KGB, I don't know... Let's talk, ask, open and forget. And it will not be again - year after year! - for the next seven years. How much can you do?Oh, no, no,
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U319	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, which should be added to proposal 3?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U320	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U321	Nothing to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U322	No, not to be added. Support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U323	So please call! We will vote in favour of 3. - Saeima Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U324	The proposal was tabled by Mr Spolitis. The Commission has not been supported and has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U325	Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U326	5 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U328	6. There is a proposal from the Member, Mr Veikis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U329	It has been withdrawn. Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U330	All right, it's over. 7 and 8 ...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U331	7 and 8 have also been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U332	That too...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U333	Nine are also involved. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U334	9. Also, just... 10. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U335	Members support... Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U336	Dear colleagues, 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which is inextricably linked to 11. - the commission's proposal will be innovative in this law. Until now, Article 3 of the Law only defined the terms ‘GCC employees’ and ‘GCC informants’. Article 3 now also gives a definition of "officials associated with the activities of the KGB". In the law, the definition of ‘officials related to the activities of the KGB’ was introduced in order to make it clear that personal data of officials related to the activities of the KGB, as well as personal data of staff and informants of the KGB, are to be published in full. This includes personal data indicating ethnic origin, membership of political organisation, trade union and religious beliefs. The definition of the concept of “official related to the activities of the KGB” in Article 3 will help employees of the National Archives of Latvia, who are obliged by law to publish documents on the archives website, from the vast set of documents of the Communist Party of Latvia to select more precisely personal documents for publication. The law prepared by the Saeima does not have to list in detail the case of each person to be published. Archive staff with a doctor's degree... their qualifications and experience will allow them to be selected for publication of personal cases of officials of the Central Committee of the Latvian Communist Party, which, according to the specific period of time, gave direct instructions to the State Security Committee, as well as with its decisions, focused the KGB on the conduct of repressive activities. The new definition will allow the archives to publish documents with the names of the officials of the Council of Ministers of the LSSR who, together with the officials of the Council of Ministers of the USSR, ordered the deportation of more than 43 thousand Latvians in March 1949 and provided materially with security institutions of the LSSR. On the basis of this definition, personal cases of heads of the administrative units of the Central Committee of the GCC who supervised the security authority of the GCC and opposed return to Latvia as early as the early 1960s, as well as personal cases of many other officials who were related to the activities of the GCC.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U337	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? However, the speaker did not request a vote either. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U338	11. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U339	Consequently, the Members in the debate do not want to. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U340	Proposal 12 withdrawn. Proposal 13 withdrawn and also not supported... 14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U342	Proposal 15 withdrawn. 16. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U344	17. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U345	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U346	Proposal 18 withdrawn. It's a good proposal. 19. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported and included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U347	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U348	Analogous with 20. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U349	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U350	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal for a Group Unity. Supported, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U351	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U352	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, When working on these amendments to the law, the Group's Unity did not linger, drank with its hands, filmed itself and other colleagues, called no one. We have simply analysed what package of documents on the functioning of the KGB is available to us, whose publication would be valuable and useful for the public, whose publication would give a broader insight into the functioning of the Soviet regime and the Soviet system. Having analysed and carried out this work, we concluded that there is, in addition, another package that could be made public by the end of this year. And that is the documents of the Central Committee of the Communist Party. It was an organization that was at the top of the Soviet verical. If we were to remain with the publication of the documents that we are talking about so much in society, namely, the informants' filings, then our society would not have a full view of the functioning of the Soviet system. In discussions with the Latvian National Archives we concluded that these documents have already been scanned, they are available. And every member of society should be fully acquainted with the work of the Central Committee of the Communist Party. That is why, after our arguments, the Commission agreed that these documents should be made public and made available to the public by the end of this year - just like the informants' papers. In this respect, the public will have the opportunity to gain a broader insight into the functioning of the KGB. And here, my fellow Members, once again, it is very important to understand the details, to understand exactly what is in the interests of our society, to find out, not to be wandering and shouting. Thank you. I am pleased that the Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U353	I closed the debate. So the commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U354	The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is also pleased with this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U355	The Members therefore share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U356	Proposals 22 and 23. These are the proposals made by Mr Kirštein, who have been supported and included in 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U357	Members therefore agree with the Commission's position on the proposal 22, and agree with the Commission's opinion on the proposal 23.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U358	24. is the proposal from Member Ritvars Jansons, which has been supported and also included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U359	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U360	25. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U361	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U362	Good afternoon, colleagues! Yes, the 25th proposal is the one in which we can see very well the records of the documents to be made available to the public. And according to the number of these positions, it is only so that you can see how much the organization's field of activity has been. The question is again: do you really have to open up all this? My answer is: yes. Unfortunately, however, in the last days, some voices of the leaders of the security authorities of Latvia have again been voiced: they do not support the opening of Czech bags, as this may affect the security of the country. The main reason is that if we open all these documents, then we reveal the names and personal cases of KGB agents. And this would be a bad signal for those people who are now helping Latvia's services as agents. In my opinion, this comparison is not really correct, because the agency's services for a repressive totalitarian regime are in no way comparable to the support for the services of independent Latvia, and it is not reprehensible. The second less mentioned reason is that perhaps some of the former KGB agents have voluntarily or forcefully become rapporteurs to our services and their names could end this cooperation. Unfortunately, we do not know anything more precisely about the number of agents possible and the quality of the services provided. However - can it be excluded that exactly the same agents, who are somewhere below the highest level, somewhere deeper in paper, archives hidden, do not work in the interests of Russian specic services? No, we can't do that either. Having considered these arguments and put the public interest in opening cheque bags and the possibility of self-cleaning the public, I still believe that, although very late, opening cheque bags must take place. Similarly, the President of Latvia, who says in an interview on 27 September that he will support the opening of Czech bags, but already on 2 October he does not know whether this law will be announced or not, should consider these aspects very carefully and make a distinction between a solution that is in the public interest of the majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U363	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? However, the speaker does not require a vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U364	The Commission is asking for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U366	26 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U368	Proposal 27 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U369	Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U370	28. - has also been withdrawn. 29 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U372	30. - also withdrawn. 31 is Alexander Kirštein's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U373	Let's start a debate. The name is Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U374	Dear President, Honourable Members! My proposal is to delete the second paragraph of the sixth paragraph of Article 14, which states that pre-trial verification should show whether or not cooperation has been identified. I would, of course, not have proposed to delete it if, as the panel has examined, there were not many cases that the court has indeed shown that cooperation has been unconscious. And then I began to wonder, ‘ Is this even possible? ’ I have taken the instructions of the USSR State Security Committee. You know, six extremely interesting points that have not been taken into account by the court for some reason. Paragraph 1 is that the KGB agency's apparatus must be highly qualified and numerically small. So everyone was not taken there, as we understand. But that would be the least. Paragraph 2 is a requirement for a highly qualified, small body of the agency, providing it with good training. So a person is instructed and trained, but still does not realize that he is being prepared as a KGB agent, because all his activities are unconscious. Let's go. Point 3. Agents shall be recruited on an ideological political basis in a voluntary manner. So here again, it is stressed that there must be some kind of consent. But let's assume some of these cards were put without them knowing. But then there is an extremely interesting thing. A meeting with agents should be organised on a regular basis, at the best of their ability, mainly through the use of a pseudonym, and the operational staff shall draw up a list of agents by aliases in the workshop and shall make the necessary records of planned discussions. So a person has already agreed and has chosen a pseudonym for himself, but he still thinks and tells the court that all of this has been unconscious. And the truth does. It's amazing! And it's really decided that all this is unconscious. Finally, it is also extremely interesting point - point 6. Every two years there is an attestation of agents and residents, which is one of the forms of agency work control. So imagine that someone whose card is inserted without knowing him, and who is not an agent, calls for an attestation. He's sitting there, being asked questions, he still thinks that all this is happening unconsciously. But that would be nothing yet. After that certification, he shall be given a description signed by the operating member and the direct superior of the operating member. And then he... in turn, control from time to time the chairman of the Latvian KGB Committee. And when we asked Mr. Maizins a question in the Commission, who also loves to tell him that some people were put in cards or that he could call just one, he didn't know it. But one historian from this commission said: then there must already be a group conspiracy, because there are so many people involved in... Puting this agent in this cart that, imagine, they all had to come in, say, in 1977 or 1980, when nobody knew that the USSR would collapse, and it must have been the case that the conspiracy group sat there and said: “You know, let’s leave the magazine one place and write the outstanding Latvian people there, so that in 1990, when the USSR collapsed, everyone would be surprised that he had been recorded in the magazine and his card there. Let's stop! This is a funny point, and we're going out, colleagues! I call for no support. I call for my proposal to be supported, not to support the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U375	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U376	I would like to ask Alexander: what are we doing here now, Aleksandr? We get vampires, do we catch cheques? We don't catch anyone, we want to make a law so that once this nightmare ends. Look at the proposals that we have supported! For example, Proposal 25, i.e. Amendment to Article 7.2 of the law... It is written here that we will publish “Latvian and Foreign Friendship and Cultural Relations Associations, the Latvian Committee for Relations with Nationals abroad”... Here you can talk and talk about what we'll publish... on what is related to a cheque. I think that now, of course, we can philosophies and speak... Contrary to the case law that has been so far... It is clear that these people will often find themselves in a dubious position in society as well. For example, Rock ash comes and admits to the public that he is a chequer; he has no business. Or other cases... For example, people from the artists did not know that they had cooperated. I think we're not going to find real justice, the repeater is not full of... But the main goal is finally to end this quarter-century long move to nowhere. Clearly, there will be no complete righteousness. But at the same time, let's say, let's not argue about the details - consciously or unconsciously cooperating. I call for support for the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U377	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, will you add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U378	We support the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U379	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 31. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 8, against - 38, refraining from - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U380	Which proposal is now?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U381	32!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U382	Proposal 32 is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U383	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U384	Go on. 33. is Alexander Kirštein's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U385	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U386	Dear Members, I have withdrawn this proposal because it is actually the task of the next government, it must be recorded, therefore, for the parties to be elected to the next Saeima. I believe that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance must prepare calculations and enter them in a government declaration. That is too serious, so I have withdrawn this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U387	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U388	Proposal 34 has also been withdrawn. Proposal 35 has also been withdrawn. The notifier will also refer to proposal 36. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Who’s the Applicant, Ringold?” ) There was Spolitis. The 37th proposal is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which has been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U390	Proposals 38, 39, 40, 41, 42 and 43 have been withdrawn. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “A who is the applicant?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U391	The proposals have therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U392	44. is a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which is partly supported and included in 46. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U393	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U394	45 is Alexander Kirštein's proposal, which has not received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U395	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U396	46 is a Commission proposal supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U398	So that's all. I call for support at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U399	Please call me! Did you want to say something about the procedure? ( Milestones.) No, you can't. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “About the procedure!” ) Please call us! The procedure? Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Neimins!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U400	Raimond Vejone! Please do not withdraw, do not reject this check bag law! That's what I...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U401	Turn off the microphone for the Member of the Neighbours! Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with detection of the KGB”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Cultural Centres”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U402	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! On 26 September this year, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law on the "Law on Cultural Centres", which it supported and wishes to be referred to first reading with the support of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U403	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on cultural centres! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U404	Thank you. Proposals for the second... Improvements to the second reading shall be submitted by 2 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U405	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is November 2. On the agenda - draft law “Diaspora Law”, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U406	Dear President, Presidium! Dear colleagues, We work with document No. 5326 - with the draft law “Diaspora Law”. The Foreign Affairs Commission started to examine this draft law at second reading as early as the end of August, and we had seven meetings attended by lawyers, representatives of Diaspora organisations, experts and representatives of ministries. During this time, we adopted and discussed 61 proposals. 1. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U407	Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 56, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U408	2. is the proposal from Member Igora Pimenova. This was also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U409	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U410	3 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U411	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U412	4. is the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U413	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U414	Dear President of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen! This has been the most complex part of the draft law, namely the definition of the Diaspora. And I'll give you a little insight into how the current version has developed. In particular, we are talking about Article 1, paragraph 1, on the definition of a Diaspora. The current version of the Foreign Affairs Commission reads: “Diaspora – Latvian citizens living outside Latvia, Latvians and others with ties to Latvia, as well as members of their families.” Although the definition is very problematic, we very much want the Diaspora law not to be stuck and that we can fulfil our commitment to adopt the Diaspora law in the 12th Saeima term. However, I will explain why a new definition can be expected at third reading. As we know, the interpretation of the term of the law must be precise and clear, because its purpose is not to complicate but to simplify the perception of the law. In the period between first and second reading, we have gone through three versions. The first reading adopted at first reading - the one supported by the Foreign Affairs Commission... and the second - those supported by the Foreign Affairs Commission, which you see today... All in a row. The definition approved at first reading by the Saeima for the term 'diaspora' is a definition proposed by the Working Party when it comes to the examination of draft laws. It was read as follows: “Diaspora is a community of Latvian permanent residents living outside Latvia and individuals who associate their membership with Latvia.” This version, although extensive and inclusive, was legally incorrect, unclear and subjective. The words “Community of Latvian Persons” are not used in international treaties or laws and regulations. The words “individuals who relate their belonging to Latvia” include self-identification, that is, if someone is a fan of the Latvian opera, theoretically this person could define himself as a Diaspora of Latvia. In view of the shortcomings, the Foreign Affairs Commission started work on a revised version. The definition developed and supported jointly by the Foreign Affairs Commission for the term “diaspora”, for which we devoted two meetings of the Commission at the beginning of September, against which no one objected for a whole month, reads as follows: “Dispora – permanent residents of Latvia or Latvians and members of their families outside Latvia.” Both the Commission and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima agreed that this definition of the Diaspora is sufficiently narrow and legally correct. The above risks were thus eliminated and the definition should be included in the draft law. In the opinion of the National Alliance, this is also the most artificial definition. But it didn't end. However, after receiving objections from the European Latvian Association last week, the definition of the term “diaspora” was once again considered in the Foreign Affairs Commission. And this time, unfortunately, we came to the version that led us to consider postponing the review of the draft law “Diaspora Law” to the next sitting of the Saeima, namely, the new version approved by the Foreign Affairs Commission now sounds as follows: “Diaspora - Latvian citizens living outside Latvia, Latvians and others who have ties with Latvia, as well as members of their families.” I invite you to pay attention to the seemingly small, but fundamental adjustments - the words “others with ties to Latvia”. Already during the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission, the Legal Bureau provided concrete and irrefutable arguments to point out the non-compliance of the definition. It's a legal bunny. Let me repeat the most powerful and brightest arguments. The words “others with ties to Latvia” are unclear. The link can be different - family, social, professional, historical, economic, emotional, legal. It can also be subjective (for example, a person chooses whether or not he will be a member of the Diaspora; for example, a person likes Latvian basketball, football, Latvian nature) and objective ones. Furthermore, the question arises: Does the mere fact that someone has an objective link mean that he is a member of the Diaspora? Let me explain. An objective link with Latvia is, for example, also a person to whom a refugee travel document has been issued; to whom a residence permit has been issued; who has committed a crime in Latvia and served a prison sentence; who is engaged in business activity in Latvia. The former Soviet Soviet military staff also have an objective link with Latvia. Indeed, in your opinion, is Latvia's Diaspora? Let's be rational! Although this definition was also supported by the Diaspora organisations, it is known that they were not informed of the reasoning of the Legal Office. In fact, they were manipulated with the organisations themselves, whose representatives have already admitted that they did not really know what the definition they supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U415	Mr Kola, your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U416	I'll ask...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U417	Do Members have reservations if Member Kohl brings together both speaking times? And the objections? There is therefore no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U418	The clarity and accuracy in the case of the term ‘diaspora’ is particularly important because the Diaspora Act provides for a series of support measures for members of the Diaspora, such as support for commercial activities, favourable tax treatment for pensions paid abroad; account is taken of the social contributions paid in the countries of the European Economic Area in calculating maternity, paternity and parental benefit, facilitating the admission of children to educational establishments, prior to re-migration and other forms of support, and greater involvement in political processes. In addition, the law also states that the impact of the policy on the diaspora will need to be assessed in the future. It is therefore important to define clearly and precisely what is the Diaspora, so that these aid measures are received by all those who need to receive them, and that they are not received by those who do not need to receive them. We do not want to discriminate against or exclude anyone, but I will not be a French Diaspora if I start learning French at the French Institute in Latvia. The National Association proposes its definition for the third reading to ensure that such a legal brother does not become a new, otherwise highly developed piece of law, and that the Diaspora law works exactly as it should - as a quality support mechanism for our Diaspora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U419	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U420	Mr. Kalnins, you left... Oh, it was special? Hello, colleagues! I also support Rihard Kola's offer, because we have been communicating with Egil Levit both individually and together. And it really is about the fact that our perfect professional legal bureau has written a very competent opinion. In recent days, they have gone hard - we are all nervous, the laws are complicated, but a really very competent opinion is written. If you follow the current wording and the words “and others who have ties to Latvia” in the law also vote at third reading, then a really tragic situation can develop. Because, as the Legal Bureau writes, the most important thing here is to take into account these “and others with ties to Latvia”... How can they become members of the Diaspora? Self-identification is essential. It can be genetic, social, professional, historical, economic, emotional and legal. Let's say, own property in Jurmala. I was working in Jurmala just before this Saeima. There are both Alla Borisovna Pugačova and Galkins, there are a lot of masks who have bought real estate. If they all suddenly feel... This is the opinion of the Legal Bureau... If, for example, they own property here, they can also become members of the Diaspora! Imagine, even an emotional bond can be a basis for becoming a member of the Diaspora if we accept such a standard! You know, Vladimir Vladimir Putin... Maybe he's also thinking about us, maybe he's romantic... the plane has been flying across Latvia, has seen something down, or has perhaps been in the guests of Riga... He could also, if he wanted to, become a member of the Diaspora by following this article. Don't give it to God, colleagues! No way! So that the National Association will arrange for this at third reading. And thanks to Richard Cole for following this thing.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U421	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U422	Dear President, Honourable Members! The laws that we have adopted cannot be contrary to the laws that we have previously adopted. There are two documents which the law scientist Levits has named the same constitutional acts as the declaration “On Renewing Independence of the Republic of Latvia”. It is a Declaration on the Occupation of Latvia adopted on 22 August 1996 and a Declaration on the condemnation of the totalitarian Communist occupation regime of the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republic implemented in Latvia in 2005. Declaration on the occupation of Latvia. It says that the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia calls on the countries of the world and international organisations to support the efforts of those who wish to return from Latvia to their ethnic homeland. The second declaration invites the Cabinet to conclude an agreement with the relevant Cabinet of Ministers of Russia on the promotion of repatriation. Both declarations state that still... The consequences of occupation have been very difficult and have not been eliminated as such. Obviously, this definition of the Diaspora introduced by the Foreign Affairs Commission... Let us say that this is not accurate and does not entirely correspond to both of these declarations. It is completely contrary, because the link with the country of Latvia exists for all of these mentioned persons who have lived here. So, then, we must either change its declarations and add amendments, or write a new diaspora term as such. And I think we will do it for the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U423	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U424	As I have already said, this draft law has been thoroughly examined by the Foreign Affairs Commission. It was discussed at the committee meeting on 30 August, and was discussed at the committee meeting on 5 September, where it was also voted on a legally correct version of the definition... how to define the Diaspora; was examined on 11 September, was examined on 12 September, was examined on 19 September, and finally all the proposals for the Diaspora law were examined at the meeting of the Commission on 21 September. Everybody! This includes the question of definition; we have also been recognised by the Legal Bureau for our benefit. And at that point, it was possible to see the really very unprofessional management of the commission, as the Foreign Commission was led by Mr. Kalniņš, who was consciously - consciously! - hindered the progress of this draft law. Even in a situation where all the proposals had been examined and the draft law had to be brought forward for second reading, the work was delayed and another meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission was convened as early as next week, where it was voted on this legally uncorrected definition of the Diaspora. And we are now in a situation where, at second reading, we have to vote on the definition of the Foreign Affairs Commission with a majority of votes (the SAMAN Members also played an active role), which, as we are clearly aware, we will have to recast at third reading. In my opinion, this is a bad act, leading a commission, a responsible commission, guiding the work on one of the major draft laws that the Foreign Affairs Commission has dealt with in general during these years. I would really like to hear Mr Kalniņš' arguments as to why the second reading of the draft law was delayed if we could... Even if he personally did not agree with one or the other wording voted on at second reading, he could make proposals for the third reading and examine it, rather than deliberately delay the whole process.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U425	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U426	Yeah. I would just like to add here that, after the Foreign Affairs Commission examined this draft law and supported it at second reading, the PBLA Board meeting adopted the following resolution last week: "The PBLA supports the efforts of the Saeima to draft the Diaspora law and calls for its adoption in the 12th parliamentary term with the aim of bringing together Latvia's people in the world and helping them to build sustainable ties with Latvia. All PBLA member organisations agree on a definition, which states that the Diaspora is Latvian citizens, Latvians and others with ties to Latvia and members of their families living abroad.” However, the Commission agreed that it would still be possible to go back to the definition of the Diaspora for clarification of legal affairs at the third reading, and together with the Saeima's lawyers and also with Egil Levit, who has also been involved in this process, we can agree on a final version.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U427	Thank you. Thus, the proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U428	5 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Did we just look at it? Yeah. Partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U429	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U430	6. There is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission, which we supported, of course.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U431	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U432	7 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U433	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U434	8 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U435	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U436	9. is the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U437	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U438	10. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U439	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 52, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U440	11. is the proposal of Member Igora Pimenova. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U441	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 54, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U442	12. is the proposal by Member Raivja Dzintaras. It has been partly supported and included in 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U443	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U444	Proposal No 13 - from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U445	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 21, against - 48, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U446	14. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U447	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 52, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U448	15. and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U449	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U450	16. is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U452	17. There is a proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U453	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U454	Dear colleagues, One small word ‘individual’ should be included in this proposal. I would very much ask you to support my proposal, because individual support from the coordinators is possible, and it would also be the most appropriate way for us to support those people who have really taken or decided to return to Latvia. Both uncertainty and uncertainty about your decision, volatility, and perhaps too formal attitude can interfere with your return. Therefore, given that representatives of the VARAM have supported this proposal and have also called on Members to support it, I call on you, however, to support this proposal, namely on individual support for re-emigrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U455	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U456	Yeah. We discussed it in the Commission, and both lawyers and Members agreed that the word 'individual' is not needed in this text. I therefore call for no support on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U457	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U458	18. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U459	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U460	19. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U462	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U463	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U464	Hello, fellow Members, again! My proposal concerns Article 7 of the draft law on the competence of public administrations in the area of policy in Diaspora. I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers is an opportunity to motivate the reintegration of Latvian citizens or - I wrote even more precisely - an obligation to establish a favourable treatment for the taxation of income from re-emigrants abroad by means of personal income tax. I will also be opposed to time by the chairman of the Commission that the position of the state must be balanced, that there must be no more favour for emigrants than for indigenous peoples who have endured all crises, and that we cannot reduce the revenue of the budget, but I will answer that: if there is a wish, there is a thousand opportunities, but if there is no wish, there are a thousand reasons. Other countries show how to act if there is a wish for Portugal to pursue a targeted return policy, applying a reduced rate of personal income tax to recent arrivals and exempting any foreign income from taxation for the first 10 years after return or arrival. And that's just one example. I'll remind you that for Latvia... The number of Latvian emigrants relative to the compatriots is the largest in the European Union compared to the other Member States. And I think Portugal's example is the way that the Republic of Latvia also has to go, for which the number of emigrants, as I said, is incomparably higher than that of Portugal. Latvia does not currently have the capacity to provide well-paid jobs and thus to motivate the compatriots to return, but to create favourable tax conditions Latvia can. I call for the government to have the competence to determine the income of people living abroad, providing them with a favourable treatment of personal income tax. I think this will be a good contribution to the motivation that we all want to create by this law. Very good intentions are laid down in law, another thing is to ensure that these wishes are met. I think that it is only economically that we can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U465	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U466	The Foreign Affairs Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U467	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 57, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U468	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Partly supported and included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U469	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U470	22. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U471	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U472	Dear colleagues, This proposal deals with the obligation of the Ministry of Education and Science to provide a possibility for representatives of the Diaspora to learn Latvian both before and after the actual return to Latvia. I remember that our committee also had a debate on the term "actual return". I reread the law. This term is given in Article 17. Because I have not violated anything by making such a proposal. Thus, both before and after their actual return to Latvia, representatives of the Diaspora must have the right to learn or refresh their Latvian language, taking into account that after their return to Latvia they will have to be able to enter the labour market, and also taking into account that in their country of residence before their return to Latvia, representatives of the Diaspora must be able to preserve the Latvian language. I therefore call on you to support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U473	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U474	The Foreign Affairs Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U475	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko. Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 21, against - 52, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U476	23. There is a motion from Member Julia Stepanenko, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U477	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U478	24. is the proposal from Member Raivja Dzintar. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U479	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U480	25. is the proposal by Member Raivy Dzintar. Partly supported and included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U481	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U482	26. is the proposal from Member Raivy Dzintar. Partly supported and also included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U483	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U484	27. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. Partly supported and included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U485	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U486	28. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U487	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U488	29. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partly supported and included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U489	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U490	30 is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U492	31 is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U493	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U494	32 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U495	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U496	33. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Partially supported, included 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U497	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U498	34. is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U499	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U500	35. and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U501	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U502	36. and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U503	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U504	37 is the proposal from Member Raivy Dzintar. Partially supported, included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U505	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U506	38. is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U507	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U508	39 is the proposal from Member Raivy Dzintar. Partly supported and included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U509	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U510	40 is the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U511	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U512	41 is the proposal from Member Raivja Dzintar. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U513	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U514	42. is the proposal from Member Raivy Dzintar. Partly supported and included 43. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U515	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U516	43. is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U517	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U518	44. is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. Partly supported and included 45. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U519	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U520	And 45 is the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U521	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U522	46 is the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U523	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U524	47 is the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U525	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U526	48. is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U527	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U528	49 is the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U529	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U530	50. is the proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U531	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let's vote for 50. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U532	The next three proposals are similar and partly supported. 51. - The proposal from Member Rihard Kola. 54 have been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U533	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U534	52. - the proposal from the Group Unity President, Mr Hosam Abu Meri. This is also partly supported and included in 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U535	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U536	And 53. - Igora Pimenova's proposal. 54 have been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U537	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U538	Dear colleagues, Pensioners living abroad want to return to Latvia, we receive a lot of reports on this from organisations representing their rights abroad. We are talking a lot about creating jobs to motivate Latvians to return. But in the case of pensioners there is no need to create anything; even pensions do not have to be paid because they are already provided abroad. According to the information we receive from both the European Latvian Association and the state institutions, there are 370 000 Latvian citizens abroad, eight to ten percent of whom are pre-retirement or pensionable. When talking about the factors that delay return, the most common point is that there is no adequate social security in Latvia, but when returning to Latvia, the Republic of Latvia is ready to spend depending on the country of former residence: at least EUR 7500 per year, if it is a retired person from Great Britain, or almost EUR 13 thousand per year, if it comes from Ireland. This is the lack of contribution to the Latvian demand market if a person decides not to return. In Europe, there are also 18 countries that continue to cover health and medical costs for pensioners who are no longer living in these countries, thus not imposing an additional burden on the Latvian budget, but financing it. I submitted this proposal for the first time in November 2017, when the proposals for this year's budget were discussed. My proposal was made in connection with the law on personal income tax. Basically, it was requested by the European Latvian Association. I kept asking for it. I'm taking care of it right now, too. At that time, it was not supported, but now it is also proposed by those Members who voted against it. I ask for this proposal to be supported today. Please vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U539	Mr Pimenova, you want to vote in favour of 53. - partially supported, huh? Okay, thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add before the vote on the 53rd proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U540	No, no. As I said, this has already been included in part of the proposal 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U541	Please call me! Let's vote in favour of 53. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 18, for - 40. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U542	And, as I said, 54. - The proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission brings together the three previous ones on the same subject, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U543	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U544	55. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U545	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U546	56. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U547	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U548	57. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. 61 have been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U549	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U550	58. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. 61 have been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U551	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U552	59. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. 61 have been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U553	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U554	60. and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partly supported and also included 61. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U555	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U556	And 61. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U557	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U558	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for the draft law on the second reading "Diaspora Law".
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U559	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Diaspora Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U560	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 11 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U561	Thank you. Proposals are due by 11 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U562	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U563	On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U564	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Social and Labour Commission has prepared the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights” for the second reading. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U565	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U566	2. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U567	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U568	3. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U569	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U570	The same is true for 4. - a proposal from the Minister for Health. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U571	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U572	Proposal No 5 This has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U573	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U574	6. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U575	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U576	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the honourable Saeima to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U577	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Patients’ Rights”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U578	Please submit your proposals by 9 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U579	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U580	President of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents of Persons”, it has decided to support it and direct it for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima. Briefly, why would such an amendment be necessary? There is currently no single legal framework to regulate the use of different means of identification used in electronic environments and the availability of common identification tools and guarantee access to electronic services. Thus, the issues of personal identification are currently addressed individually within each specific electronic service, for example, as part of the concept of official electronic address, the State is obliged to provide official free electronic communication between Latvian institutions and persons. Bank identification cards are used on the website www.latvija.lv. The National Health Service has also introduced a common electronic health sector identification system, and e-health from January 1, 2022 will only be available to patients using an ID card. This means, in fact, that only those who have ID cards with activated electronic signature and authentication certificates will be able to make full use of their patients' rights. A number of conditions could be mentioned here. Therefore, in order to meet the above requirements, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has developed and the Cabinet of Ministers has supported changes to the Law on Documents of Persons. The draft law provides for the right of a person to choose both identity documents while changing the priority of personal identity documents. From 1 January 2023, the mandatory identity document is an identity card or ID card. So this ID card solution would also help to sort out the issue of the Saeima Election Law, which provides that the voter's certificate should be removed at the moment. But by making these changes in various regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers as well as in the Saeima Election Law, we could use the ID card in the elections as well, and it would be as full as the passport. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U581	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 87, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U582	We will wait until October 17, 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U583	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is October 17 this year. Dear colleagues, Members of the Parliament are asking Mr Abu Meri, Mr Dzintars, Mr Brigmanis, Mr Kleinberg and Mr Upenieks to continue the sitting of the Saeima until all items on the agenda are discussed. Do Members have objections? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 13, for - 2. The sitting of the Saeima shall be held without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U584	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to Labour Law” (No. 1277/Lp12). One proposal was put forward for second reading. It has been tabled by Richard Coll, and it has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U585	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U586	Dear and honourable colleagues! Three words “competitive”, “appropriate”, “stable” are the most commonly used words in the job advertisement section “remuneration”. Although it has already been customary, no jobseeker would see such words in the job advertisement as soon as the expected salary is concerned. And that's understandable. It is unlikely that the employer’s potential would be happy if, at the place of education, the candidate indicated that it was very good, but instead of a previous job experience listing, that the work experience was excellently appropriate and wide-ranging. The practice of not indicating remuneration in job advertisements is a special feature of the Latvian labour market; the uncomfortable question of remuneration is most often directed to the shoulders of job seekers. For example, in Britain or in the United States, at least 75 percent of the preaching work is done. You'll ask, why is that? You will have noticed that employers and business organisations have said that remuneration should be hidden, otherwise competitors and recruiters will be given a convenient tool to attract employees. You're gonna be able to oversell the pay. The remuneration is also hidden because it is a commercial secret and that the level of remuneration can indicate how well specialists work in a particular company. And there are real reasons, of course, that don't sound so fair and pleasant anymore. One of them is the desire to save. One of the most important aspects of non-imposition of remuneration is the possibility of manoeuvring when recruiting a new candidate and the desire to save in cases where a candidate calls for a lower than expected salary than foreseen in the company's budget. Nor can the remuneration be indicated because the company is not at all able to formulate its wage policy, its compensation and its bonus system. Then, of course, the disclosure of remuneration will cause more damage than benefits. Similarly, companies offering relatively low wages often do not indicate whether multiple applications have been received for a job advertisement. Similarly, for companies operating in the shadow economy and paying part of their wages in the envelope, the requirement to indicate real wages in the advertisement is dangerous. Let us be honest! A situation in which wages are not expressed in the preaching work is beneficial only for employers. It is clear that the employer takes advantage of the asymmetry of information, as the term "competitive" can be followed by both a really good remuneration and, in fact, a non-competitive remuneration. And comments about protecting workers or competition - these are just reservations. Then, by analogy, the prices of the goods should not be indicated in the stores so that the buyer can negotiate the most suitable price with the seller at the cash desk. Instead, I invite businessmen to think about people. It would only be fair to be effective in relation to those who apply for a job, for example, so that a person who wants to take up a certain post has clear conditions to which he can stand. It is not that after three or even more interviews, the candidate must conclude that it is not a reward for which he is prepared to perform these duties. The lack of remuneration, along with inaccurate and incorrect advertising, significantly increases the number of inappropriate candidates for employers, while at the same time renouncing the most skilled and powerful candidates. In specifying the pay range in the job advertisement, not only feedback with potential employees is provided, but the company also acquires qualified and suitable candidates for its vacancies in the long term. Rewarding advertisements would also help to combat the shadow economy and discrimination in the labour market. If the employer has indicated the approximate salary in the advertisement, for example, it will be very difficult for women to pay lower wages simply because they are women. And finally. In Britain, salaries are shown in the ads by almost all employers. Therefore, no injury to the companies has occurred. It seems that the companies there have not lost their competitiveness at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “You have not been an employer!” ) and the vote itself. Here, fellow Members, I appeal to all of you. Here, in the Saeima, the parties represented and the candidates nominated by them during the pre-election period have expressed their support for these amendments to the Labour Law. Therefore, I also call for consistency in the performance of your pre-elections, which you can now deliver immediately, so as to show voters that you are keeping to your promises. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U587	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U588	Yeah. On this matter, representatives of the Ministry of Welfare took part in the meeting of the Committee, who conceptually supported this proposal, and the representative of the Free Trade Union Union of Latvia also supported it conceptually, and the representative of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia believes that this regulation should be the procedure described in the collective agreement. I would like to draw Members' attention: if we support this proposal at final reading, we will be the first country in the European Union to describe this procedure in law. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U589	Members are in favour. Consequently, all proposals have been examined and voted in favour of supporting the draft law at second reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 2 and for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U590	October 9th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U591	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U592	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings” (No 1320/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these draft laws at first reading. The draft law aims, on the basis of the opinion of the European Commission, to amend the Law on the Energy Efficiency of Buildings in order to ensure the full implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency and to prevent the termination of infringement proceedings initiated by the European Commission in case No 2016/2088. The Commission supported this draft legislation at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you, colleagues, to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U593	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U594	Thank you for your support. Let us wait until 9 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U595	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U596	Hello! We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Food Chain Monitoring”, second reading. Considered by the Commission. No proposals have been received. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U597	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Monitoring the Food Chain". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U598	Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading: 9 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U599	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U600	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared amendments to the Law on Packaging. Five proposals have been received. The proposal is a proposal from Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U601	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U602	2. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U603	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U604	3. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. Partly supported, included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U605	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U606	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U607	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U608	And 5. - Minister Gerhard's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U609	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U610	All the proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U611	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Packaging Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U612	Let us wait until 9 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U613	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U614	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act” (No 1311/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these draft laws at second reading. One proposal was received, which is a proposal from the Legal Office, which was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U615	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U616	We have therefore examined the only proposal. Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U617	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U618	Thank you. Let us wait until 9 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U619	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U620	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection” (No 1322/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined draft laws at second reading. No proposals were received. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U621	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Protection”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U622	Thank you. Let us wait until 9 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U623	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U624	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law Amending the Railway Law (No1318/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined draft laws at second reading. No proposals were received. On behalf of the Commission, I call, colleagues, on the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U625	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U626	Thank you. Let us wait until 9 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U627	The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U628	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! For the second reading, 11 proposals were received in the draft law. It has to be said that when preparing this draft law for second reading, the commission had quite a discussion about light... on commercial taxis, namely a situation where there are different conditions for operators acting in different ways as economic operators and those who... taxi drivers operating in accordance with the so-called ‘engagement system’. The Commission could not solve all these problems for the second reading, as they also concern a number of other laws. This means, however, that the next government will have to return to this issue once again. Now on the proposals. The first four proposals concern the commercial transport of passengers, but they are less fundamental. 1. - the proposal by Mrs Plakas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, aimed at ensuring that the social insurance of individual economic operators carrying out commercial passenger transport by taxis is in future similar to that of self-employed persons. This proposal has been partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U629	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U630	On the other hand, two. - the Commission's proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U631	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U632	3. - the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, which relates to the above. It is partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U633	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U634	4. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U635	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U636	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Editative in nature, is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U637	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U638	6. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. This is also of a more precise nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U639	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U640	7. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. This is linked to proposal 8 and is set out in the provision of the article "Access point to electronic receipt and transmission of information to other Member States" in accordance with the European Commission regulation. This point... Proposal 7 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U641	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U642	As well as 8. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U643	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U644	The 9th proposal, which sets the date of entry into force of the abovementioned provisions into force in the transitional provisions, is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U645	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U646	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare specifying the rules relating to compulsory contributions of professional athletes. Partially supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U647	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U648	11, on the other hand. - the Commission's proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U649	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U650	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U651	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U652	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the determination of 9 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U653	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U654	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U655	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U656	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” (No 1360/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy adopted the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” divided the norms relating to administrative offences... administrative penalties... on the prohibition of the illicit manufacture of alcoholic beverages... norms on administrative liability were separated from the draft law, which was already approved today, because this draft law is related to the decoding of administrative offences. These rules were distributed so that we could adopt and move forward the previous draft law. So in principle... these amendments have already been examined in substance, but now they have been distributed within the Commission... separate to go together in a single package with all issues related to the Administrative Procedure Law. In the Commission, we examined and supported this draft law. Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, call for this draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U657	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” (No 1360/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U658	Thank you. We will wait until November 5 this year for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U659	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is November 5 this year. The agenda of the sitting was examined. The intended plenary session for the answers to Members' questions today is set at 3 p.m. 5 p.m. Member of the Minister for Health Anda Čakša “On adequate operational security of the national health insurance system” of Zarina, Tretjaka, Niconova, Zuvėvs and Zemļinskas. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the pressure it is not possible to arrive at an oral response. On the question of Member Zariņa, Adamson, Morozova, Urbanoviča and Tutina, Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On tax debtors and recovery of tax debts”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the pressure it is not possible to arrive at an oral response. Consequently, the answers to Members' questions will not be available today. A question has been received from Members. Members Zarins, Adamsons, Cilevičs, Niconovs and Zujevs submitted the question “On additional questions about tax debtors and recovery of tax debts”, which we submit to the Minister of Finance for response. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration are available.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U660	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Aldis Adamovičs, Inese Aizstrauta, Andris Buiķis, Artis Gustovskis, Jeļena Lazareva, Romanas Mežeckis, Jānis Trupovnieks and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-10-04-PT12-495-U661	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
