ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take office in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 22 November 2018. Dear colleagues, Five years have passed since the Zolitude tragedy. I call for a minute's silence in honour of the memory of the dead. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. We will begin to examine the agenda adopted by the Saeima Bureau. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Stakis, will you talk about it or 'no'? ‘ For’. So “for” applied to speak Mārtiņš Staķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U2	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear Members, The draft law provides for the extension of the rights of police officers to appropriate institutions for the delivery of persons who have lost their ability to move independently as a result of the use of alcohol, narcotic, psychotropic or toxic substances. We can read all of this in an annotation, and this is, of course, important and necessary for society. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, since 1991, no government has been able to define whether it is a public health problem, i.e. the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, whether it is a public order disorder, and accordingly the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. That is, of course, both health... both threats to public order. However, there is no doubt that there is a state responsibility to address this issue. The prepared solution is a step forward... but it is just sticking, because the funding would come from an extraordinary budget. It is not clear which ministry would be responsible for this budget. I call for this bill to be passed on to the commission responsible and for it to be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Courts” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Safety” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Korea on air traffic presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On the Declaration of Cash at the State Border”” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Ventspils University College” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Protection of the Dead’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine” be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes the draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 15/Lp13) to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Council of Europe Convention Against Trafficking in Human Organs” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ About” Member Vita Anda Steel applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U4	Dear colleagues, The Society Integration Fund is a key mechanism for supporting civil society. It is time to repair these instruments. For years NGOs have been complaining about bureaucracy in the Society Integration Fund. The SIF performance assessment commissioned by the Ministry of Culture shows problems with monitoring, with SIF’s ability to work purposefully and in accordance with its strategy. Instead of supporting and strengthening civil society, SIF has started to compete with NGOs for project implementation money. In a situation where, as a result of changes in tax policy, many NGOs are without private sector support this year - whether they are education, social work or sport NGOs - it is important for us to ensure that the main state aid mechanism works smoothly to be effective, targeted and adequately funded. I call on my colleagues to support the transfer of amendments to the Commission and to work actively to ensure that our support for the NGO sector is accompanied by a growing curve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U5	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “On the procedure!” ) So... Who wants to talk about the procedure? ( Intercretion: “Judins! Move!” ) Please turn on the microphone for Andrejs Judys!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U6	The question of procedure. I also ask for the draft law to be passed on to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity as a joint committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U7	Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There is no objection to the referral of the draft law to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. Therefore, there is no objection. Are there other proposals for referrals to commissions? There are no other proposals. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, by stating that it is a commission responsible, as well as to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the recognition of the Law on the Management of the Structural Funds of the European Union as invalid” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the recognition of the EU Cohesion Fund project management law as invalid” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Detaining Persons” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Marija Golubeva, Member of the European Parliament, applies to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U8	Dear colleagues, This draft law concerns the recognition of higher education acquired abroad in Latvia, in particular the reduction of bureaucratic obstacles to this process in relation to the common European area of higher education. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is a very important issue for our scientific and economic development, because it affects all Latvian citizens who have returned with diplomas from foreign universities. I call for support for the transfer of this draft law to the commissions, because it will directly promote the openness of the Latvian higher education space to quality higher education from the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U9	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Copyright Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima shall propose the draft law “On accession of the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the Chief of the Supreme Command for Strategic of the North Atlantic Organisation for Strategic. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the disposal of real estate in Mezezera Street 3, Aizupe, Tīnižu Parish, Ikšķile Municipality, for public needs – implementation of the P5 Ulbroka-Ogre National Regional Road for Reconstruction Project” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “On the accession of the National Defence Department of Canada to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications, and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the staff of the Chief of the Supreme Command Transformation of Defence of the Republic of North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications to the Foreign Relations, establishing that it is responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the re-reading of the law. Dear colleagues, The next item on the agenda is the re-reading of the law. On 9 November this year, the President of Latvia has sent the Saeima to re-read the law “Amendment to the Labour Law” adopted by the Saeima on 1 November this year. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs shall be responsible for this Law. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Saeima must set a deadline for the submission of proposals, as well as the date when the law is re-examined at the Saeima sitting. Please turn on the microphone for Andris Flyre!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U10	Good morning! At the extraordinary meeting of the Commission yesterday we decided that the proposals should be submitted by 18 January and that the sitting of the Saeima should be held on 31 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U11	Thank you. Are there any other proposals? Mrs. Steel? Please turn on the microphone for Vita Anda Steel!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U12	Thank you. I propose an earlier deadline of 3 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U13	This is the deadline for submitting proposals – 3 December? And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U14	And in the Saeima – on the 13th day.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U15	Which one, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U16	13. ( Insight: “Did you argue? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U17	December? And consideration on 13 December. Dear colleagues, First of all, we must vote on the next deadline. Do Members want to vote both on the deadline for tabling proposals and on the parliamentary sitting – together on these two deadlines? Do you want to vote for each term separately? Total. Okay. We will therefore first vote on the deadline for the submission of proposals to the Saeima on 18 January 2019 and on 31 January 2019. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for tabling proposals on 18 January 2019 at the Saeima sitting on 31 January 2019. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I Consequently, the proposal that the deadline for the submission of proposals be set at 3 December of this year remains in force, and consideration at the Saeima sitting at 13 December this year. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, Today at 10.30 a.m., the Latvian Pensioners Federation comes to the Saeima, who wants to present a gift to the Saeima during the centenary of Latvia. We will welcome the Latvian Pensioners Federation at 10.35 in the Great Lobby! Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U18	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear President of the Saeima. Fifteen minutes after this sitting in the Yellow House, a meeting will be held to facilitate cooperation between the group of Members and the founding of the Indian Parliaments. So in 15 minutes, right here. Everyone who wants is invited to participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U19	The name of the Member, Janis Bordan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U20	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! Five minutes later, another cooperation group will be set up in the Yellow Hall – it will be a group of Members for cooperation with the Polish Parliament. I invite everyone who wants to participate in it and to participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U21	Thank you. Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U22	Dear colleagues, In mid-December, we will be visited by a representative of the inter-parliamentary group of the Italian Republic with the Baltic States. It would therefore only be good if we had set up our cooperation group by then. I therefore call on you to attend the meeting of the Group of Members for cooperation with the Italian Parliaments at 11.00 in the Yellow House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U23	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U24	Hello, honourable Members of the Saeima! Members of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! We look forward to you in 15 minutes' time in the Chamber of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit and the Committee on European Affairs. For those who do not know where it is, I will explain – it is on Jēkabs Street 6/8. And the good news is that in the future, the meetings of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs will take place in that hall, right in that house. Please remember this! We're waiting for you there. It's the new Saeima building. Don't come to the old Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission. In 15 minutes. Wait! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U25	Thank you. Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U26	Not registered: Uldis Augulis... ( Interface: “No! ”) ) None. Artus Neighbours... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What – Artuss Neighbours?” ) Not registered. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “How – don’t register!” ) The system says there is no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “The system lies! The system is always lying!” ) So there is. And! It's here, great! And Inguna Ribena... Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-22-PT13-506-U27	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
