ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the meeting room so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 14 June 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Legal Commission is asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it draft decision “On Release of Svore Rūja from the position of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Kurzeme district court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the approval of the Noras Pakules as a district (city) court judge” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion in it of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks to change the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Members have reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Panel asks to change the agenda of the sitting and to include the Member Ivars Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Aleksandrs Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Janis Adamsons, Sergeja Mirska and Ivana Ribakova's request to the Minister of Economics Arvils Aseradens "On the inability of the Minister of Economics to justify the application of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 262 "Regulations on the production of electricity using renewable energy sources and pricing procedures" regarding self-consumption". ‘ Against” Ivars Zarins has applied to speak. ( Intercretion: ‘ Against?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “; dep. I.Zariņš: “Yes!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U2	Colleagues! Yesterday we had a phenomenal meeting of the Commission on Petitions. What was the request? The request was that the Ministry of Economics has included in the Cabinet Regulations a norm which is contrary to the law, thus an illegal norm. This provision provides for the following: I mean... Although the law provides that within the framework of compulsory procurement, the merchant can sell only excess electricity for this expensive subsidised tariff, the Cabinet of Ministers... In the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, the Ministry of Economics has provided for such a norm that it is controlled only from July next year. This is contrary to the law. This contradiction was also raised by the Legal Office. Despite the fact that this contradiction is obvious and unlawful, it was decided to reject this claim by the Request Commission. Colleagues! Why am I calling for this request to be postponed today and not to look at the Saeima sitting? Because it is very important for all of you – for all of you who have sworn to the people of Latvia and have said in your oath that you will observe the Constitution and laws of Latvia and will perform your duties “in good faith and with the best consciousness”. I therefore call for this request not to be placed on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima today so that the Legal Bureau can present an in-depth opinion in which it can clearly be seen that this request is justified and that this provision is illegal and that it is competent to take a decision. I therefore call for this request not to be included on the agenda of today's sitting of the Saeima, because otherwise you will simply confirm that you are interested not in the rule of law in this country, but in the fulfilment of your responsibilities before the people of Latvia, but in the internal political games, because you see that the requests addressed to other ministers are also being examined today. And that is why this political pillar between coalition parties is needed in order to cover each other with their own injustices and the plundering of a nation of millions could continue. I therefore call for this request not to be put on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U3	“About” has applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U4	Asheraden was given the opportunity to remedy the situation that developed with regard to the OIC afēr. Asheraden has deceived all! I have asked Minister Asheraden for his resignation (Dep. L. Cigan: “Am I alone?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) which will be discussed on June 21 in the same hall. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri: “There can’t be another room!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U5	Thank you. So one Member has spoken 'no', the other one has spoken 'yes'. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include a request by Members Ivars Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Aleksandrs Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Jānis Adamsons, Sergeja Mirska and Ivana Ribakova to the Minister of Economics Arvils Aseraden “On the inability of the Minister of Economics to justify the application of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No.262 “Regulations on the Production of Electricity by Renewable Energy, and the Procedure of Prices” regarding self-consumption”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Consequently, the request is on the agenda of the sitting. The Panel asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting to include the request of the Member Ivars Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Aleksandrs Jakimova, Janis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Janis Adamsons, Sergeja Mirska and Ivana Ribakova to the Minister of Economics Arvils Aseradens “On the strange grounds of the Minister of Economics in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No 262 “Regulations on the production of electricity using renewable energy sources and price-setting procedures” in relation to “indecently committed violation”. Are Members opposed to this amendment on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection. Decision adopted. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to increase the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) asks to change the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018”” (No 748/Lm12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote for amendments to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018”” (No. 748/Lm12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The Members Abu Meri, Brigmanis, Krauze, Lībiņa-Egnere and Upenieks are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Riga Economic University”” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U6	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Riga Economic University, also known as Stockholm School of Economics in Riga or the nation known as the Swedish school, was founded in 1994 with the financial support of the Swedish Government by concluding an international agreement with Latvia aimed at promoting the development of education shortly after the collapse of the Soviet Union – offering one of the best available education in the region of all three Baltic States, as well as ensuring a high level of business and economic education. In 24 years this university has been one of the leaders in economic and business education. The lowest financial Times rating of 2017 is also recognized as a business university in the Baltic and Nordic region No.1. However, after 24 years of work, new circumstances have arisen that prevent us from continuing the successful development of the university and show that we obviously do not have to change our traditions. Therefore, colleagues, taking into account the historical circumstances and situation, have prepared amendments to the law “On Riga Economic University”, which will ensure the future successful functioning of the university according to the discretion of its founders and will allow the university to continue to provide high-quality education in economic and business areas. I also invite you to support the next draft law, the law of Riga University of Law, because the situation is similar. Colleagues, let us not create obstacles to internationally recognized higher-level education in Latvia! If we have something 1 we fight for it and keep an example for the rest! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U7	Thank you. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Members have reservations and we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Riga Economic University””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 10, for - 4. Decision adopted. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Members Abu Meri, Brigmanis, Krauze, Lībiņa-Egnere and Upenieks are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Law of the Riga University of Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Abu Meri, Gaidis Berzins, Koite, Dalder and Upenieks are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U8	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The credit industry has long been a sensitive and painful topic for Latvian citizens. And just as we start to recover from the historically problematic and severe mortgage crisis, we have faced new challenges, new types of credit, new credit platforms. In 2015, when we last amended the Consumer Rights Protection Law, we made a number of useful changes: restriction of total costs of credit per day, restriction of all payments that cannot exceed 100 percent, limitation of interest on late payments, as well as prohibition of granting credits at night - from 23.00 a.m. to 7 a.m. These amendments have contributed to a positive change in the sector as well as to a reduction in interest rates. In spite of this, we are still faced with different fate stories, everyone knows someone who is in debt depending. And that is why we need to take the next steps in order to bring the law on consumer protection. The proposed amendments aim at correcting the usual practice in line with the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union that the credit granting process cannot rely solely on the information provided by the borrowers alone, but requires additional proof, as well as the mutual obligation of the lenders to exchange information in the credit granting process, so that one and the same person may borrow from one, to the other, to the third lender and even to the ten lenders. I also call, colleagues, for support to be given to the draft law on the setting of the interest rate for credit. In general, these will be major changes aimed at bringing the sector into line. Mortgage loans, leasing, SMS credits, modern credit granting platforms on the Internet, ads that on each corner shout: “Take off!” ... The credit industry is dynamic, developing rapidly, and that is why we must continue to strengthen regulation in order to protect the interests of our citizens, so that it does not become a stone in the neck for the rest of its life, but remains merely a handful and useful tool for the acquisition of property, for business development or for dealing with crisis situations in people's lives and for the future. Thank you, colleagues. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U9	Mr. Juris Viļums has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U10	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! All of you, those of you in the political groups and those of you who do not have representation in the Bureau, know very well that we have a very tight agenda today. Let's work until 12.30, then there's a break until June 20. The same draft law, i.e. “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection”, is already on the agenda. Why is there another point on the agenda that opens up exactly the same law? I understand that the coalition has eternal jealousy for everything that the opposition submits, but you only have two articles in this draft law. Is it really so difficult to submit them to the second reading? Ladies and gentlemen! You have just said that you support the draft law tabled by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia. I call on you to support the draft law that is already on the agenda and not to support it, but to work correctly on the draft law in question. I fully agree that the credit and quick credit story has already come to such an extent that it is a threat to the national security of Latvia. I think we... Today, let us probably see amendments to the Law on Electronic Media that propaganda media must be controlled. But what has happened for years in this quick credit story? There is an old anecdote about the fact that advertising is everywhere: fear of even opening a refrigerator - will there not there be any advertising about quick loans? I call, colleagues, on this particular draft law not to be put on the agenda, but, as Mr Upenieks said, to support what is already on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U11	Thank you. So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” (No. 1294/Lp12) on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 71, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Abu Meri, Gaidis Berzins, Koite, Dalder and Upenieks are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members... Oh, Mr. Smilten, will you talk about it or 'no'? ‘ Against” applied to speak by Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U12	Good morning, colleagues! I have to think about whether or not to support. I saw myself in the morning that these amendments had appeared. That's a strange situation. The Association of the Regions of Latvia submitted amendments to the Consumer Rights Protection Law in good time, a week ago, to include them in the agenda. They are based on an analysis of how maximum rates have been set for loans in other Central European countries. We offer to start a discussion by setting a threshold of 25 per cent. I think that Roman Money also supports such an initiative, and the Commission would be ready to work on it further even in the summer. The following amendments, which had not passed through the Cabinet of Ministers, are drawn from the dust. Urgently, within one day, prepared and submitted... ( Internouncing call.) One night? Mr. Viļuma knows better. And the fix was submitted to the Saeima. I have heard from Mr Upenieks that he also calls for support for the amendments currently being led by the Association of the Regions of Latvia. But is it not that the amendments of the Association of the Regions of Latvia on a rather significant reduction in the appetite for fast credit companies have caused stress and excitement among the quick credit business representatives - shareholders, investors - and perhaps politicians? With my eight years of experience, I can say that such moves have been experienced. So the following amendments are tabled, which is a radically milder version. I would even be prepared to support them as if they were. But it is a radically milder version on the subject of how we will limit quick loans. At first, it seemed to me that a dilemma would be put forward, i.e. we would not support the proposals of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, we would better support these proposals. But now the Riverer says that the support will still be. That's good. But will it not be that later the commission will have different opinions and the Ministry of Economics will come with arguments that, however, the amendments to the LRA are too radical and should be directed towards small, small, small-scale promisings to reduce the appetite for fast credit firms? Knowing behind the scenes and understanding that the necessary resources are coming from the elections and from the party box, however, I have concerns about whether this proposal, which was drawn up within a single night and not in the usual order, is not an attempt to play in a very elegant, philigrian manner the proposals that have been made from the LRA in order to try this process on the right track? I will listen to what Mr Upenieks said and then take a decision - or support the fact that we are putting these amendments on the agenda of this sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U13	“On” has applied to speak Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U14	Dear colleagues, To be clear. The Ministry of Economics works daily with this draft law on fine-tuning of the sector. These amendments have been working for more than a year now, both through the guidelines of the Consumer Rights Protection Centre... (Applause) Seeing that a draft law containing a very narrow norm covering a very small segment of all the credit issues and problems that are currently in the sector was, of course, an operational response, and that is why today's agenda is an extended version of the draft law, which would put the sector even more in order. I therefore think that we are united on this issue, that we are fighting to ensure that the borrowers are protected and that they do not have to suffer for their mistakes throughout their lives. I therefore call for support to be given to inclusion on the agenda and also for support to be given to referrals to commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U15	Thank you. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Dambe, Brigmanis, Kozlovska, Abu Meri, Dalder, Andris Bērziņš and others are asking for the draft law on cultural centres to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. We begin to examine the agenda of the amended sitting. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima shall propose that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Defence Office” submitted by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law submitted by the Foreign Affairs Commission "Amendments to the Law on the Hague Convention on the Service of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil and Commercial Matters" be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Safety” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Animal Protection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection" presented by Member Smiltēna, Kleinberg, Ruka, Viļuma, Bites, Simfa and other Members be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U16	Colleagues! Reading from the Criminal Law of the Republic of Latvia. ‘ Article 201 Fruiting. In the case of loans of different types made through the deliberate use of the heavy material condition of the borrower, the conditions under which they are unduly burdensome (fruiting) shall be punished either by temporary deprivation of liberty or by forced labour or by a fine.’ So it's criminal. Colleagues! Quick loans are in most cases legally allowed fruiting. High-speed lenders abroad are also called loan sharks - a loan to sharks. Why is this term? Because the target audience for such loans are people who are already in financial difficulties and who for various reasons do not have the possibility to obtain consumer credit in banks where customer solvency is carefully assessed, i.e. repayment possibilities. The term loan sharks - loans to sharks - is used for these lenders because they balance on the fine line between the permitted activity and the criminal liability for unauthorised fruiting, using the heavy material condition of borrowers, where the conditions for repaying the loan to the borrower may be unduly burdensome. In other words, on the fine border that brings people into debt slavery, even more in poverty and poverty, it deprives these people of future opportunities to use their income for their personal or family needs. It brings people into debt trap. They can borrow EUR 100, but they grow rapidly up to 200, 200 - to 400, 1000 - to 2000 and so on. This is the unique birthplace of modern times. This is also reflected by the report prepared by the Consumer Centre, which shows that in 2017 consumers have been granted loans of EUR 586 million anew and that distance credit extension service is increasingly used: the total number of distance credit extensions has increased by more than 40 percent. Colleagues! Problems with payments in Latvia: payments in excess of 200 euros are delayed by 170 thousand people, payments in excess of 2000 euros are delayed by around 45 thousand people. In this case, a large part relates precisely to quick loans. As a result, the country is struggling with severe problems that are not even long-term, but are already posing a major threat to our economy today. The country is fighting to return those who have left. However, colleagues, we are fighting the consequences! The reason is often the excessive financial commitment that people are going abroad. The country is also fighting the shadow economy... Accounting of working time in construction - various proposals have been made. But, colleagues, these are all the consequences! There are healthy sectors in which the situation is very well known: the worker insists on payment in cash or in the envelope. Latvia thus loses its human resources and taxpayers. The Saeima then adopts laws that prevent these taxpayers from accessing, for example, health care. Again, there is a fight against the consequences, not the causes! We want to live in Europe, to be closer to Europe's core. But what about others? In Belgium, Germany, France, Italy, Switzerland and many other countries, the annual interest rate does not exceed 20 per cent per year. Colleagues! The country must protect its citizens, and in many European countries this is what it is doing. The Latvian Regions Association wants to radically reduce the Latvian people - our people! - debt slavery, subsequent emigration and exit from the shadow economy. We offer to limit the total cost of credit - 0.07 per cent per day of the amount of credit, which would be about 25 per cent per year. This would be a reasonable amount, because even investors in Latvia estimate that eight percent per year, that is, investment return rate or return on investment, is very good interest. 25 percent per year - this is the offer from the Association of the Regions of Latvia to start a further discussion in the Saeima Commission immediately. 25 per cent, and above them, criminal liability begins. Let all citizens be clear! We also understand that this is a very politicised issue, because many politicians themselves have become investors in the fast credit business - it brings head-up profits and millions of measurable income. That is why this vote is also symbolic. It will show which parties are deeply dependent on fast credit business and which are completely free to take action and are able to work for the benefit of the state of Latvia and its citizens. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U17	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections to... Is that so? So Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 17, no. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the member Abu Meri, Brigmanis, Krauze, Lībiņa-Egnere and Upenieks refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Riga Economic University” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U18	Good morning, colleagues! I will discuss both this draft law and the next one. We have prepared two draft laws – Amendments to the law “On Riga Economic University”, which provides for several additions and clarifications regarding the legal framework of the university, as well as the draft law “On Riga Legal University Law”, which aims to clarify the place of the Riga Legal University in the higher education system, respecting the specifics of its activities. Both universities teach only in English. Foreign lecturers work there. Both are founded on international treaties, and unlike other Latvian universities, they are founded with significant support from Sweden. These universities have been proud of the consistently high quality of education for many years. They have brought the cools and standards of Western higher education in the Latvian higher education environment. They have prepared countless new professionals who have successfully demonstrated themselves in leading positions in both public administration and the private sector in Latvia and abroad for several years. Given the special situation in which these two universities are located, these draft laws are united by an important common objective: a solution is proposed for the rectors of these universities, which cannot be approved at the moment due to the current regulation. This draft law provides that foreign professionals in these universities are not subject to the general requirements of the state language skills and will be able to hold not only academic positions, but also the highest administrative positions, including the position of rector. Communication and cooperation with individuals and institutions continues to be provided in the state language. The adoption of these amendments will benefit both universities and Latvian society as a whole, as they will have the opportunity to continue their full-time work, prepare high-level lawyers and economic professionals who are competitive in the global market. I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Riga Economic University”” and the draft law “On Riga Legal University Law”. Let's let professionals in their field work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U19	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the member Abu Meri, Brigmanis, Krauze, Lībiņa-Egnere and Upenieks refer the draft law “Law of the Riga University of Law” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Abu Meri, Gaida Berzina, Dauges, Dālder and Upenieks's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection" (No. 1294/Lp12) be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Abu Meri, Gaida Bērzina, Dauges, Dālder and Upenieks's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the "Law on Cultural Centres" be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission by the Member Dambe, Brigman, Kozlovsk, Abu Meri, Dalder, Andra Berzins and other Members. ‘ Mr. Walter Dambe has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U20	President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Two weeks and three days later XXVI Latvian Song and XVI Dance Festival will begin. More than 40,000 festival participants from Latvian regions, cities and foreign countries will come to Riga, where these participants are going to prepare for the largest event of five years in culture - the Song Festival, which is included in the UNESCO List of Intangible Heritage. They are prepared both in Latvia and abroad, and in Latvia they are supported by cultural centres. There are more than 500 such cultural centres in Latvia. In other cases, they are called folk houses, assembled houses, clubs, and cultural houses. The members of the Association of Cultural Workers established a working group to prepare this draft law for three years in disputes and discussions on 19 October 2015 No.179 “On the creation of a working group”. Unfortunately, it is a public organisation which does not have the right of legislative initiative. Draft laws may be drawn up by Members or ministries which submit them through the Cabinet of Ministers. And the employees of the cultural centres turned to our group to submit this draft law to the Saeima for consideration, discussion, debate and improvement within the Commission. It is far from 100% complete and operational. But it would symbolically be our duty to promote the unique tradition of the Song Festival, to support the initiative of cultural workers and to adopt this draft law as a law regulating their activities. The second paragraph of Section 3 of the Law on Cultural Institutions states: “The legal status and activities of certain cultural areas and related cultural institutions are governed by special laws.” The Law on Library, the Law on Museums, the Law on Archives has been passed, but there is still no law on Cultural Centres. But the employees want it. Therefore, please support the referral of the draft law to the Commission and continue its examination and development.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U21	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda, the issue of granting leave. For granting unpaid leave to a Member, Aleksandr Kirštein, from 19 June to 21 June this year. Ladies and gentlemen, we must vote on the granting of leave. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Aleksandr Kirštein from 19 June to 21 June this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's 2018 spring session and the beginning of the Saeima's 2018 autumn session. Honourable Members! The Saeima Bureau, in agreement with the Fragmentation Council, proposes that the Saeima Spring Session be closed on 22 June this year and that the autumn session be opened on 4 September this year. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima's 2018 spring session and the beginning of the Saeima's 2018 autumn session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The agenda shall be for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, for the expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on distrust to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs (No 739/Lm12). Members Romans Mežeckis, Inguna Silverba, Aivars Meija, Jānis Urbanovičs, Sergejs Potapkins, Ivans Ribakovs, Mihails Zemļinskis, Jānis Ādamsons, Artuss Kaimiņš, Jānis Tutins, Aleksandrs Jakimovs, Sergejs Mirskis, Ivans Klementjevs, Romans Miloslavskis, Boriss Cilevičs and Vladimirs Nikonovs have submitted a draft decision on the expression of distrust to Dzintārs Rasnačs, Minister of Justice (No 739/Lm12). On behalf of the applicants, Member Roman Mežeckis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U22	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The bloody events of recent weeks create a feeling of alarm across the whole of Latvian society. However, the murder of lawyer Bunkus is only the last stage of the chain and culmination in the long-term process of degradation of the insolvency system in Latvia. After this event, I have talked to many people and asked them all one question: how they appreciate what happened. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr Mūrniece, introduce order in the hall, please!” ) And I was shocked - just shocked - by people's responses. Most of them said, “That’s what they need!” “So long it was necessary!” “They deserve it!” I can't agree with this, but I can understand why they think so. Because, what do people want? People want a normal life in our country. They want to know that everyone has the same opportunities; that they will be able to make a prosperous life for themselves and their loved ones through honest work. Don't misunderstand me! The people I am talking to do not expect the government to solve all their problems. They know that to achieve something, most people want to work hard, but they understand that it is not through honest work that insolvency administrators have earned their expensive limousines, yachts and villas. And when you see on the television screen that the insolvency administrators, when they take away their valuables, possibly cheese, become five times richer in the course of the year, becoming millionsaires, each ordinary Latvian person instinctively feels this huge injustice. Such examples from the luxurious lives of insolvency administrators destroy the dreams of all the other people for a normal life, and that is no less important! - undermines the belief that we live in a righteous state. Public confidence depends most on decisions made and choices made by the Heads of State. Today, there are two options for the government and the coalition Members: either to start cleaning up the insolvency system and to make changes to the relevant legislation and staff (and, above all, to start with the responsible Minister for Justice!) , or choose the principle of “the crow of the crow in the eye” and leave all over the old, without changing anything. However, in such a case, government parties will have to take account of the growing dissatisfiedness of society. Dear President of the Government and members of the Coalition. Do you understand that if you do not change anything in this corrupt environment, then people in the streets will start doing it? People will start walking, myths and action, defending their right to be citizens of their land, not to some of the hunches of the new rich and their coverts - politicians. And more. These irregularities can happen for many years only because everyone knows, but everyone is silent about it. And that's why you don't have to make your mouth hard for the press! The press, as well as ours and yours, is to break this humiliating lie, silence and silence ice. And now I will mention a number of reasons why Dzintars Rasnačs can no longer be the Minister of Justice. Dzintars Rasnačs became the Minister of Justice for the first time in 1995, and in general he spent many years in the post of the Minister of Justice. Why is this important? Because as far as Rasnačs is concerned, the following arguments are not working: “I’m still a young minister, I’ve recently come, I’ve never met, I didn’t know, I didn’t understand... “ Let’s not be a stranger to the moon! Dzintar Rasnacz knew everything well, he understood everything. For the last four years, in the last two governments in a row, Rasnač has again served as the Minister of Justice. Both Laimdotas Straujuma and Māra Kučinskas government declaration made a commitment to define the expected results of insolvency policy in the long term, the role of the State in ensuring insolvency supervision, to review the functions of the insolvency administration and the role of the court, as well as to complete the reform of the profession of insolvency administrator, which would improve supervision and responsibility of administrators. It's beautiful! One term, one term... Dzintars Rasnačs is again trying to prove himself in the office of Minister of Justice for four years. In principle, four years are long enough if there is an understanding and a genuine desire to sort out the sector. But nothing has already been done! Rasnačs cannot continue to serve as a Minister of Justice, because for these four years precisely because of his failure and lack of interest, the government declaration on insolvency matters has not been fulfilled and has remained at a declaratory level. Is the failure to comply with the government declaration not a reason for the Prime Minister to request the resignation of the minister responsible for the field in question? Next reason. The Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs does not ensure compliance with the law. The insolvency law clearly defines the purpose of the insolvency proceedings. This is ‘to facilitate the fulfilment of the obligations of the debtor in financial difficulty and, if possible, the restoration of solvency by applying the principles and legal solutions laid down by law’. The insolvency administrator should, therefore, assist the company and its owners when entering a company in financial difficulty in order to restore their solvency, to return to economic activity and to provide income in the form of taxes to the State budget. Instead, companies and their property are being looted, and Latvia's profiting companies are becoming less and less. The insolvency administrators become the shadow economy millionaires. Examples include: ‘ Liepājas metalurgs’. November 2013. Long, tiring and scandalous insolvency proceedings. In 2018, the company's assets are sold out in instalments, 1345 employees of the company lose their jobs. Many millions of euros have been spent in the process. The investor-attractive consultant was worth more than two million euro; the administrator's remuneration was also almost two million euro. The goal is not achieved, but the rewards - fantastic! In essence, the whole process has been subordinate to saving this company so important for Liepaja and for Latvia as a whole, but to making the most of insolvency administrators and their friends. ‘ TRASTA COMERCBANKA’. Another example is that insolvency proceedings serve insolvency administrators and related interests, not entrepreneurs and the public. The bank’s sad fate was decided directly by the insolvency administrator. The initial calculations showed that the bank's assets - EUR 130.2 million - allow almost all liabilities to be covered - EUR 130 million. After the appointment of the administrator, the value of the assets of ‘Trast commercial bank’ was sharply reduced. After the operation of liquidators, insolvency administrators, the assets were revalued and it was concluded that the value of the bank’s assets was almost halved - no longer 73 million. This all depended on the strategy chosen by the administrator for the sale of assets. By selling the assets, you can earn more and then distribute the money thus earned in a brotherly (or less brotherly) manner. This time this process ended with the fact that the State Police detained two administrators of this insolvency process a year ago. We can only understand what fate would be expected for the second largest bank in Latvia – ABLV Bank, if it were to be transferred to liquidation rather than self-liquidation. The next reason to vote in favour of the Rasnač's depression is that he does not want or is unable to see obvious errors in the insolvency system. It was only after the murder of the insolvency administrator Mārtiņš Bunkus that the insolvency authority appeared and suddenly announced that unlawful invasion of the insolvency administration information systems and unlawful manipulation of the insolvency administrator line were possible. Three employees of one lawyer's office - Mārtiņš Bunkus employees were successively received in line. But it's not the first time! In 2015, as insolvency administrator of the insolvent subsidiary of Liepaja Metalurgs “LIEPĀJAS OSTA LM” the wife of the administrator of Liepaja Metalurgs was nominated. Both were then linked to specific political circles. An information system error or unlawful interference in the operation of the system was also called for at the time. And then Rasnačs publicly emphasised that the settlement of insolvency and supervision of insolvency proceedings is his priority, and said (please quote): “All signals or indications that might indicate an unethical or unlawful conduct of the persons involved in insolvency proceedings are taken very seriously in all cases and are checked in order to eliminate doubts about the impartiality of the persons involved and the legality of the conduct.” In September 2015, Kārlis Sergeants, a member of the Saeima, from the Saeima Tributary, debated the request of the Minister of Justice, indicated that this system could be circumvented. But then the request for a depression was rejected, and Rasnačs could have forgotten this publicly distributed information again. Year 2018 - and again the same thing happens! What is it - by chance or by targeted action? System error or already System (in capital letters)? One case would have been enough for the minister to resign. All of this shows that there is a situation in which the Minister of Justice exercises supervision of the Bankruptcy Administration in a weak or non-implementation manner and the operation and development of the system takes place in a self-flow. ( Internouncing call.) The Minister is neither in a position to direct the Ministry in the exercise of its functions nor to supervise the insolvency administration. The system has a complete mud. And not just. The system is flourishing and criminalising. In the last two years only, the Insolvency Administration has been forced to suspend from office five suspected administrators (for significant and shocking loud fraud and extortion schemes and amounts) on the basis of criminal cases initiated by the State Police against insolvency administrators. And that's only in the last two years. Many of them are involved in suspicious business dealings with companies in difficulty and money. And every year the situation gets worse. What will it end with? The "i" point was put on all this by the murder of the insolvency administrator Mārtiņš Bunkus. And you can't know if it's a point or just a comma. All the above is proof that there is no order in insolvency proceedings and the system. The insolvency system is governed by other laws and other procedures, but not those laid down in the laws of Latvia. The insolvency proceedings shall be conducted by the administrator in accordance with his own procedures, a system of low values and criminal activities in the normal company. Insolvent administrators, contrary to serving business and public interests as officials of the judicial system, have become employees. The activities of insolvency administrators remain opaque. Administrators regularly violate the regulation of conflict of interest situations, engage in extortion, fraud and misappropriation of foreign property. Administrators earn huge money in their profession by engaging in criminal activities of different kinds, thus contributing to the prosperity of the shadow economy and political corruption. Administrators run off business, state and taxpayer money in insolvency proceedings, measured in millions. The objective of the insolvency law is not achieved because only in very rare cases a company in difficulty restores its solvency, which would be a fundamental task in the normal economy and situation. Instead, the remaining funds of the company are being depreciated and seized by the administrators. The list of all these problems indicates that Minister of Justice Rasnačs not only does not comply with the government declaration's commitment to regularising the insolvency system in order to serve the interests of the State and society, but has also encouraged the opposite by his actions or rather by lack of action. The letter and spirit of the law are violated. Public confidence in the justice system as a whole is being undermined. Further Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs may cause material damage to the state's interests. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It's already done!” ) I would like to conclude with an ancient story that will help you make the right choice. The story is about rats. In ancient times, there was a king who executed the shoppers of the stolen goods but executed the thieves with much easier penalties. Many people have failed to understand and say that it was not right. Then the king gathered the people together in the field and brought them to the rat. And in front of rats, you put food. The rats caught their food and stretched it to their caves. The next day, the king reunited the people in the field, brought the rats, and put food in front of them, but this time he ordered them to close the caves of rats. The rats took food, stretched it on their caves, but when they saw that it was hard, they gave it back. In Latvia, not only insolvency administrators are the real perpetrators. You don't have to justify them! But we will not be naive - we will never be able to change the nature of greedy people in a short time. The real culprits are the people responsible for these criminal systems - politicians who have not been able or have not wanted to take over this insolvency administrator's "rat caves". I call for distrust to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U23	Name: Dzintars Rasnačs, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U24	Dear President, Dear Bureau! Dear Members, It is 14 June 2018 and there are a number of Members who have submitted a request for a mission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Your Demission Request!” ) They have chosen a day ( Dep. A.Kamiņš: “What day is it?” )... remember the day you saw it. So I'm going to avoid any emotional flashes that you provoked, and I'm going to be pragmatic about what you, the applicants, haven't done ( Dep. A.Kamiņš: “The thing is talking!” ) and about what we have done. But I asked you to put the room in order, because one particular Member constantly stops me! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What do I do now? What are you gonna do? Will you call the police?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U25	Mr. Neighbours, be so kind, do not interfere with the debate. Indeed, intermediate calls are allowed by the Rules of Procedure, but it is not acceptable to interfere with the debate. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U26	Thank you. This unscrupulous multimillion business has offended those involved in the criminal community. This business was associated with many of the 118 administrators who have lost their certificates. And of course, following on from these reforms, there will be several more lost businesses. Let us look at the historical pattern! 17 June 2017. A meeting of the Crime Prevention Council is held. Informal war against economic and financial crimes is announced in this Council. As early as June, the administrator, Maris Sprūds, is being arrested. The State Police Economic Crime Administration develops its capacity and continues its active activities. During this time, the insolvency administration submits 35 applications to the State Police and seven applications - to the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau. What does this indicate? This shows that the government has taken serious action against these groups. There are people who have managed to get rid of custody before being accused of trial. And, of course, they will affect those parties and those Members who have some connection with the business in question. ( Subtotal: Surnames!) ) And, of course, if we are talking about applicants here, then it has been a good time for the applicants to implement this link. You honourable Members have adopted five amendments to the insolvency law which have strengthened the supervision of the state over the sector and have given me tools to work. And in fact, all these five times “postmen” in the course of a specific task have put forward proposals to prevent this tool from being present. ( Subtotal: Surnames!) ; dep. J. Viļums: “Who exactly?” ) This political power is represented in Inguna Silverba and also in Mr Mežecka - the person of Mr who spoke specifically here. There are dozens of these proposals, and I can publish them, but I do not want to delay your time today. That's one. Second. I will go further on those instruments that you have given. But the most important thing to compare the situation four years ago, when commercial banks made announcements in major newspapers and complained about administrators, and what is today... It's like a night against a day! And comparison does not need people inside the system. The comparison requires people from outside. And these people from the edge are the State Audit Office, these people from the edge are the International Monetary Fund, experts from the European Commission, experts from the Council of the European Union, the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia, the rest of the work... business organisations. And what do they say four years ago, and what do they say today? Four years ago practically all these experts gave a negative opinion on the system in Latvia. What are they saying today? Today, one hundred percent welcome the reforms that have been carried out, and one hundred percent think that they must continue as they have been. We are on the right track, and no one will remove me from this path. — Dep. A.Kamiņš: “On what right path?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ") - either paid postmen or people who are fleeing from television live. Specific results The reasons why these 118 insolvency administrators have lost their certificates probably best illustrate the concrete results. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Speak faster, don’t wear rubber!” ) The first and most serious reason is criminal proceedings. Was there any such criminal proceedings in the past? No, it wasn't. Why didn't it? Because the administration of the insolvency administration did not cooperate closely with the administration of the State Police on the fight against economic crimes, either with KNAB or with SRS. The circle of these people is well known, and it is very likely that they can complement the lines of people who are linked to those who are currently driving my depression. The second reason, of course, is the very strict qualification test, which has left a significant number of administrators without a certificate. Four such exams have been, two more will be, and then regularly every two years such an exam will have to be conducted. The third reason why such people have lost their certificate is that it is not their basic job and they have understood that this work takes a much bigger, more responsible, fairer approach and more time, and they choose the work that they already had as the basis for their future work. And there are several other reasons why people have left this profession. 118 have gone, and there are only 24 of these years. The total currently stands at 244. For risk groups. As you know, as of 1 July, there will be no institutions such as the Insolvency Administration. It will be replaced by an insolvency control service, which will, in principle, carry out all the supervisory functions imposed by the same State. And why did this name change? Because the applicants themselves do not understand that administrators do not work in the administration. The administration has been a control service from the end of time. Civil servants shall be employed by the Administration. Unfortunately, many still do not understand. They also do not understand one other thing (or they do not want to understand). Two different things are confused, consciously or unconsciously. There is an insolvency process in the non-bank sector and there is an insolvency process in the banking sector. There are two different worlds. Mr Mežecka, listen very carefully now. The non-bank sector is supervised by the Ministry of Justice and the insolvency control service or the administration, in which administrators do not work. The banking sector is supervised by the Financial and Capital Market Commission and it is this institution that bears responsibility for what is happening in the banking sector. That's the first. If we are talking about the non-bank sector, we must say that here Members have accepted five amendments and have very good results, and this is something that we are also appreciated internationally. If we are talking about the banking sector, then the Financial and Capital Market Commission has these instruments. These instruments can be used very widely, both in the control of self-liquidation, in the control of liquidation and in the control of insolvency. I think that the Financial and Capital Market Commission will have finally learned how to use these instruments. If we are talking about insolvency policy, it has to be said that the State Audit Office's 2015 report was the decisive one. In this report, the State Audit Office showed directly and clearly the direction in which the Government is to work. The State Audit Office said that there is no uniform insolvency policy established in the state and this situation should be addressed for the benefit of the state. The State Audit Office said that the Advisory Council on Insolvency Issues should be established not at the level of the highest or medium-sized official, but at the level of the senior official. As a result of the State Audit Office report, the Government prepared guidelines for the insolvency policy for the period 2016-2020 or strategy, the absence of which was discussed by the applicants (the strategy has already been in force for two and a half years), as well as transformed this Advisory Council. It includes the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economics, four ministers. It shall contain the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. And, of course, it includes representatives of the judiciary, business organisations, trade unions, Latvian Local Government Union. As a result of these cardinal changes, as well as because you have given us these tools when you amend the law five times, we have made all these changes. And these changes will move forward, and nothing will hold them back. Nothing! Because we are appreciated - and very strongly. Thank you for your attention. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Where are you talking, huh? Why don't you have any applause?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, That was a good speech!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U27	The name of Member Nelli Kleinberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U28	Hello, dear colleagues! Mr. High Minister. In the last four years, the Association of the Regions of Latvia has already submitted for the second time a request for the resignation of Dzintars Rasnačs, the Minister of Justice. At the first request of the mission, the Association of the Regions of Latvia pointed out significant shortcomings in the activities of insolvency administrators as well as in other areas of supervision of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry’s inability to remedy these shortcomings. The Association of the Regions of Latvia invited you, Minister, to a group meeting to explain and inform you about your work and activities before the first meeting of the meeting. You are the only minister who refused to attend a meeting with Members of the Saeima. If Mr Rasnačs divides members of the Saeima elected by the people of Latvia, whether their political group is in position or in opposition (Minimum: “He is at the coalition!” ), it is of concern that judges, insolvency administrators and other officials are also shared in the same way by political affiliation. No other minister has ever refused to meet the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia. And if he could not come, it was because of understandable arguments. You are an exception, Mr. Rasnač. The fact that problems in the justice sector have long been mentioned both by the European Commission and by Latvian citizens, which are reflected in the results of the Eurobarometer survey. Industry representatives with the highest responsibility - judges - have also expressed concern about the crisis of reputation. It should be recalled that last year 14 judges of the Supreme Court signed a letter addressed to the Council for the Judiciary, in which they acknowledged that there was a crisis of the reputation of the judiciary caused by the problem of insolvency cases. It is important to be aware that the low reputation of the judiciary in the eyes of the public does not promote confidence in the capacity of the judiciary to ensure justice and ultimately also confidence in the state. After all the indications of the Latvian Association of Regions regarding the Minister's incompatibility, however, the coalition protected him, covered him and allowed him to operate. But once again, we must conclude that the work of the Minister so far is qualified as inaction, which has led us to find ourselves in a situation where insolvency administration has been turned into an ambitious multi-million political business. Although it was hoped that Mr Rasnačs could move forward with initiatives to limit arbitrariness in insolvency, recent events show that the Minister does not control what is happening in the sector under his responsibility. The insolvency management process has benefited the administrators themselves throughout these years and not contributed to the benefit of the State. Having assessed recent events, the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia believes that it is the current Minister of Justice who is responsible for the inconsistency in the work of the sectors under the Ministry of Justice, including regarding the work of insolvency administrators. Consequently, he must take responsibility for the violations of the law which relate to the sector. Mr Rasnač, you have started your speech by reminding us today of the day. June 14, which we all know and remember. But let me quote Andra Paul-Pāvulas, who was just inserted into the Twitter: “On 14 June 1941, Communists massively deported Latvian citizens. Regrettably, there is still no electronic database for these oppressed persons. And there is the fault of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs.” In society, it is useful to get into their shoes and walk to understand how they live and work and solve their problems by officials. The Association of the Regions of Latvia tried precisely to do so before the request of the second delegation by submitting its request later than the first group of Members. And we, as the Association of the Regions of Latvia, had to conclude by walking in these shoes that they are definitely strong for the size of a small minister's leg. It is a pity that the Minister likes them so much that it's hard to get out because it's just beautiful and it's hard to get out of them because it's still bought for money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U29	The debate is due 15 minutes. Mr. Nanosol, would you have enough nine? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Calnozol: “seven eight!” ) Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U30	Hello, brothers and sisters! Highly honored Minister for Justice! We are well known from the beginning of the millennium, when young, green politicians at the TB/LNNK party congress were nominated as Chairman of the Board. And he was supported by some 30 percent of the delegates. Then, the power, your represented wing of the party, freed him from an unwanted competitor within a few months, excluding him from the party. I would like to ask Members a question. Have you had the opportunity to feel on your skin in recent years? I got it. Most direct. Many in many ways - both from bailiffs, insolvency administrators and from the judiciary. From a distance, the justice system looks like a film decoration - true and good. But if you start to face it, you see, the most common butaphoria. I will vote today in line with the opinion of the FAO Group - I will support the stability of the government. But you are primarily responsible for the bardac in the justice system! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “You are the master or the master!Is that so? “) As a politician, as well as your political power, you have been responsible for justice for more than a decade. Responsible for the injustices ruling in courts, the legality of interpretation of many legal acts to be translated, distrust of citizens in judiciary, corruption in judiciary, disorder in the area of sworn bailiffs, insolvency. Responsible for the fact that many companies do not want to invest in the Latvian economy due to the non-subsidised justice system. The current justice system demolishs important national posts such as a judge, a sworn bailiff, insolvency administrator. The murder of the insolvency administrator showed not only self-esteem and grossness of the legal robbery of insolvent companies, but also significant mistrust that fair decisions can be obtained in the courts of Latvia. I hope to be aware that because of your bad work, half of Latvia's population's insolvency administrator was captured with hidden joy. Be aware that the injustice and the self-governing in the justice system contribute to the return of the virtues of the 1990s and that there is a vital need for this system's capital repairs! And you don't have to put your head on the ground and look for some data that's all right! I understand that your removal will not change anything in the system. And, as Mr Mežecka said, your role is only to cover the existing system, which is aimed not at defending the interests of citizens, but at making it possible for some in the justice system to be legally resident and manipulated in the necessary situations. In fact, the real organizers of the Awakening time - the Czech workers - put the entire system of our home country management at the heart of it so that some people could live there and it would be easy to manipulate for specialists in the field of services. You can even think about what has been done intentionally to clear the territory of Latvia from local Aborigines. I understand that you, as a minister of justice, are just a little screw in this system. Changing public administration systems is a task for all of us - not only for politicians, but also for the whole nation. Without popular support, it is impossible to change in a democratic system within a democratic system that is not aimed at the welfare of the state and its citizens. Individuals who are trying to change the system either do not exist in our media or in the media (at best), or are exposed to criminal cases in our legal system, and are being defamed with help from the media or the media. And even if it doesn't work, they are placed at the place with the methods of manipulation of society and the individual acquired in the KGB and CIA schools. I call, Mr Rasnačs, to untie the sleeves for work, to actively and vigorously engage in the arrangement of the justice system entrusted to you, to repair the system's capital so that it works in the interests of the people and citizens, not in the interests of the life of some individuals! Do not let unscrupulousness, unscrupulousness, disgusting injustice be ruled out in it! Mr. Rasnač! Your shoulders are also responsible for the murder of the insolvency administrator. If you continue to be apathetic, satisfied with this system and do not make significant improvements to the system of remuneration of judicious bailiffs, in the area of insolvency, in order to revitalise businesses and reduce the cost of administering the recovered funds, if you do not substantially increase citizens' confidence in the judiciary and justice in court decisions, if you do not make the best and most intelligent lawyers wish to become judges, then I will be a member of the next infidelity. As a leader of a people who is responsible for following what is happening in the country and who has been entrusted with it, please submit to me, by 15 July, a report on the progress made on these issues. Forgive me, but your failure to act could be to say - the opposite - that I perceive personally, because all my proposals aimed at the major repairs of the justice system, including in family and child matters, the remuneration of sworn bailiffs in the system, in the area of insolvency, confidence and justice in the judiciary, the institution under your command is trying to disprove as much as possible. Let nothing change in the system, for God's sake! Instead of adjusting, these proposals are rejected by the wording: they are legally inaccurate and must therefore be rejected. Not only are you responsible for the current situation in the justice system, but many other politicians and political forces, as well as many, many lobbyists. I understand that without our united support for the change of the justice system, without all of us - the leaders of the people and the people - it is almost impossible. But if you really want to, it's workable. And by the end. It is also necessary to change the entire system of public administration created by the real organisers of Awakening so that it is in the interests of citizens and the state, not the interests of some individuals who want to live on taxpayers' money. We're good owners in our land! ( Interface: “In Latvia! ”) ) We believe - we will succeed! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “A nice slogan!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U31	The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of notice to Member Ojārs Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U32	I appeal to all the members of the Foreign Affairs Commission now to the Foreign Affairs Commission room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U33	Dear colleagues, I call you to wait a minute. On June 9, the 55th anniversary was celebrated by our fellow Member Raimonds Rubiks, and we congratulate him! (Applause) Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U34	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Boris Cilevičs, Aleksandrs Jakilovs, Rihards Kols... Is, Aivars Meija, Artis Rasmanis, Silvija Šimfas, Zenta Tretjaka and Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U35	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U36	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft decision on distrust to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs (No 739/Lm12). We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U37	Dear colleagues, I will just try not to speak as a politician, but as a normal Latvian citizen sitting somewhere and watching this live broadcast, this sitting, or going to be watching in the evening. To be honest, it doesn't matter to me whether I'm in the next Saeima... whether or not I will be elected, so today I will speak as a normal person. There will be no political talk or populism. I will also honestly say that Mr. Rasnač I do not know in life, we are not friends. I've talked to her a few minutes in life several times, and that's it. Am I satisfied with his activities? No, I'm not satisfied with his work. Neither I nor the Group of Unity are satisfied with his activities lately, in the last period, - with those activities relating to the settlement of insolvency. Yes, we are not satisfied! When it comes to personal affairs, I do not want to criticise any of the ministers, because I want to talk about the government as a whole. There have so far been about nine requests for distrust for ministers. For comparison: in the 10th and 11th Saeima there was only one request. There is not only a question of the responsibility of the Minister of Justice; there is also a question of the responsibility of the Prime Minister. That means that the government, too, in some way... The Head of Government should also take responsibility for the events of each minister. I know there is a list that we are looking at Mr Rasnač this week, next week, Mr Asheraden. I understand, too, some of the opposition... that in the future, the Minister for Finance... and perhaps the Minister of Transport... This means that it's a very good game for the opposition. What is it about the game? The game is that in the summer... right away, 21 June, we will end up working and sadly there will be no more tremble to come here, to linger others, to humiliate others and say, “You see, we have set their exam in opposition for the last two months before the elections!” Dear friends! Dear Members and listeners! Until the elections, how much is left? Less than four months. If we now start following the wave of populism that is taking place in the country and in Parliament - that we will support certain ministers every week - it is no matter whether from Unity or ZZS or from the National Association - then we will have at the end of July, perhaps only six seven ministers will remain in the Cabinet: half of the Cabinet of Ministers will have already resigned. In normal democratic countries, if there are any, the Prime Minister should resign. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Okay! I agree. Let's go further with the chronological question: if he resigns, then what do we get? Can we build the next government by October 5th? We cannot, under any circumstances, create a new government, because we will not have a new government, given the distribution of votes in the Saeima. The second question is, what will happen? There will be a technical government. Dear Members, friends! We are also the technical Saeima lately. Every week a huge number of draft laws are presented, which cannot be implemented at all. And if one of the coalition partners decides to vote 'no' at the Cooperation Council of the Coalition Party because it is a pure populism, everyone thinks - oh, oh, what will the people think of us now? For example, the Latvian Association of Regions wants to grant widows' pensions until the end of their lives, but money does not exist. Where do we get the money? Where do we get the money? There's nowhere! You already know. If God does not give you, you will be in a coalition in the next Saeima, you will not be able to do what you now submit to the Saeima. So it's a pure populism and just a game and advertising before the elections. I repeat: we are not excited about Mr Rasnač's work. We in the group always ask him to come and account for his work. I recognise that we do not have a good relationship between the Unity Group and the Ministry of Justice. Legal issues and the Ministry of Justice have always been our priority. I will say this: I am not ready to submit to this wave of populism and to vote every week in favour of a particular minister. I want the Saeima and the government to show and come to an end all the time... On Wednesday, there was one honourable woman to consult me. She asked me one question: “Sorry, Dr. Abu Mary, say, Dr. Abu Mary, do you really think that the people are not wise? You're making a theatre every week, just voting 'no', 'yes', llaming one another, and you think we don't see it? Don't we understand? You think if there are four months before the elections, then we will be reporting on them? No, dear friends! You have to account for three and a half years, not from today. You must account for each action!” In no Commission at present, before the elections, it is impossible to work, because there are only populist issues. If we want to work in national ways, then we have to think in national ways! What does that mean? That means: if we vote today on the Rasnačs Demission and next week on the Asheraden Demission, and the coming week on the Reizniece-Ozola Demission and so on, then there is no point for this government. But remember what's coming for us in the summer! The government cannot create a new government before the elections. This means that we have an almost political crisis or a technical government that can meet once a week and only get salaries. No serious decision can be taken. So the question is, where have you been for three and a half years? Where were you, dear friends? I have not seen any specific requests, such as Mr Rasnačs, recently. Where did you come from with a proposal - to change the area of insolvency - as loud as you do every week? Where have you been? You weren't. Now you have a rating of 1.7 percent. You want to build it for 0.5 at the expense of Rasnač and Asheraden and Kučinski. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Villums: “Come on!” ) The next question. Let's assume the government is down. Are you responsible, national, for what will happen in the summer when serious decisions on the financial situation and the sector in the country await us? Do you think it is normal for there to be a technical government or a demising government when it comes to talking to partners abroad - with the US or the European Union? Is there confidence in this government? Of course not. Can you play with the financial and economic system in the country at all because Members of some groups want to raise their rating on the last day before the elections? Of course not! People are not stupid, dear friends! And the people want action. It's like... Given that each of you, Members, now, before the elections, body temperature has risen to 40 degrees and is beginning to affect the brain and hormones, we are no longer able to think where it is right and where it is wrong, but just think how it looks, how many times the name of a particular lot appeared on Thursday or Friday, because it draws the rating up. But we are not talking about what awaits us in summer, how we will meet the centenaries of Latvia. Do we want to give a government that is demisting to song and dance festivals? Do we want politicians to make this kind of theatre? I don't want to let that happen. We do not love Rasnačs, we do not love his activities, but I do not in any case call for support for his depression, because in that case we only support pure populism and not any state-owned, responsible decision. (Applause) What else do I want to say? Well, dear Members, each of you stay on your chair now, every Sunday you go to church and pray for God to elect you 5. ... On October 6th, so that on November 5th you can stand here in the platform and read your important... ( Intercretion: ‘ I swear! ’) ) Yes, I swear! Can you look at yourself in the mirror and ask yourself one question? What is the serious work you have done between 2014 and today (excluding the period between today and the elections)? Because the 12th Saeima, of course, goes... But given the low rating of the opposition, given that they have difficulty in getting on the screen, they will continue to work and criticise other ministers. Then what ye did, ask yourselves, and write, please, on one of the pages of A4. Most of you will most likely not be able to fill it in A4 pages. Some Members have only been on the table for the last two or three months. ( Internouncing call.) They sat in their place for three years, we haven't heard of them! Some came out and immediately asked questions in both the press and elsewhere: “Who is he? Is he really a Member?” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “How many proposals do you have?” ) I have a lot. ( Subtotal: How much?) ) I can send it to you A4 if you want to. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) So the question is what you want, the opposition. Dear friends, you want us to vote today on the Rasnačs Demision and next week on other ministers, and then that's what the government is going down and it's over?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Offer something else! What do you offer? ( From the LRA Group: “New Government! ” ) The new government in three months... What are you going through there? What are you dreaming about? What planet are you on? Because there can't be a new government, dear friend! You're working on two names at the Saeima. I therefore call on you to stop simply populism and to be all national. May this government work with all those mistakes that are, because on 5 October it has to account for the work! The students are also waiting for exams at the end of June. What are we doing with the student if he has been unsuccessful all year round? Let's throw him out before the exam? No, let him pass the exam. And let voters vote for whether Rasnačs should be in the next Saeima or not! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U38	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U39	Good morning, colleagues! After the Hossam Tribune is completely hot, but now you have to try... ( Internouncing call.) Listening to Mr. Rasnačs' story about what has been done, however, I would like to remind you that the members of the National Association have been running the Ministry of Justice for 10 years in the last 12 years, so that most likely all those works are a correction of their own mistakes. More than two and a half years ago, when Mr. Rasnačs had the previous request for a depression, I stood here on September 17th, 2015 and said: “Mr. Rasnačs, if you were to communicate not only with those administrators who are close to your party, but also with others, they would tell you that there has long been a different system for this electronic randomity system, which can be circumvented as easily as e-talon can be eased.” And if I remember correctly, I started talking here in sub-committees five years ago about this accidental circumvention. And there was a time when some special administrators in this line could get in, another next 10 or even 15 people to the appearance of a particularly thick couch. And always the representatives of the Ministry of Justice told me, “Oh, you talk stupidity, there’s nothing like that and can’t be.” And I really was also convinced that this issue was at least now in order. But it turns out that there is still no order, and to be honest, this worry about getting these three people to line in one place now seems to me to be doing that. At the same time, however, it has to be said that this beard in the insolvency system is not only in recent years, but I think from day one. And whatever “the prophet” Gobzem, who seems to me to be the first head of this administration, would now tell the public... Well, at that time there were no random lines at all, at that time, they were simply divided by noses... And already then the first criminals for the extortion of the bribe and so on were against the insolvency administrators. There's nothing new in this world. It cannot be denied that many improvements have taken place in recent years. But after this tragic incident, there is so much negative information about the insolvency area, the virtues that prevail there, the interest groups, the new surnames, the strictists, that there seems to be a need for more cardinal improvements in this area than just corrections. It seems to me that this house simply has to be “split” and start all over again - from scratch. In my opinion, both bailiffs and insolvency administrators should become officials of the Ministry of Justice with a hard salary in the departments created accordingly, and the only criterion for obtaining a bonus should be a successful restoration of the company or the recovery of public money. Because the situation that an administrator may become a millionaire in a few months' time is simply immoral. And one more thing. In the city is currently talking that notaries are very actively lobbying the amendments to the law, which could give them an opportunity to gain additional income on the approval of civil acts. According to experts, this may even involve taking several tens of millions of euros away from the population and putting them in the pockets of the industry concerned. On behalf of the stability of the government, I will, of course, not support the request for a demonstration today. But if such amendments appear, it will be very difficult to convince me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U40	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U41	Then when the land you shake under your feet, the only thing you can say is populism. When the earth shakes you under your feet and you realize that everything is down to the clink, you say, populism. ( Milestones.) When there is insolvency mafia in Latvia, names, surnames, specific transactions, you say - populism. When the OIC phase is found, you say, populism. You say that everything against your work is populism. Dzintar Rasnač lies! He started his speech today with the fact that today is 14 June (and indeed - today is 14 June!) and 77 years ago the Communist regime expelled hundreds of thousands of Latvians to Siberia. You, Rasnač, joined the Communist Party in 1988 and you had such a book here. You had such a book! You were a Communist! And you are in the National Union as a Communist! Up to now, there were 30 known Communists in the Saeima, all of you know. Now we have 31. ( LRA intermediate call. Welcome to the Chamber.) No, no! It's Rasnač! I'm sorry... Unfortunately, it's Rasnač. You're laughing now. You laugh at the fact that we have asked Dzintars Rasnačs for the demission because of the names and schemes finally called; a huge amount of money involved. And the coalition says, “What do we do when Rasnač is not there, there will be no Asheraden, there will be no government?” Let us do this too - let us work on this, let us build a normal government that does not wash money that does not make VAT schemes that do not in some way circumvent... What I want to say is why Dzintar Rasnač lies. Yesterday I watched live television - Latvian public television. In principle, the only thing that could have been heard: “Stop! Stop! Stop! Stop!’ This was the programme manager who pays the money to Latvian taxpayers! There was only one representative of the opposition, and it was Aldis Gobzems, who called out loud names and surnames. As a result, he was closed off the microphone so that Rasnač could speak. Rasnačs distributed lies on public television yesterday - for taxpayers' money! He said another television... And in this case it is “Riga TV24”, which has regularly invited you to live broadcasts, to broadcasts to explain what is happening... Insolvent, I think the bandit Bunkus was shot - on what date? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Let the police investigate it!” ) On what date? 30 May! Rasnač! Facebook: “Everything in life happens for the first time. Tonight I had a debut in the rehearsal.” Well, that's a suffocation... SUP - this is a son with a row (if you, pensioners, don't know). Well, with its inflatable SUP it quite trebly, later you get used to it. Where do you really need to look when you row, either in the blue or at the front of the SUP? Awesome... with the whole picture. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš from the triple shows the picture. Thank you very much. Rasnač! Is that a stateman? Is that a stateman?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When he has to come up with a statement about what has happened - that he has been shot (shot!) officer... order murder! - He's swinging! June 2nd Next photo: “Today we visited the trade fair at the Open-air Museum.” A pleasant event with Alda Ozola. June 2nd How was it? Did you like it? Did you like it? Have you had fun? Let's go. June 7th. Still writes to him: “Please, when will you come to the interview?” Answer: “Unfortunately, I am forced to inform you that due to the busy situation, it is not possible for the Minister to participate in your programme to comment on the socio-political events. Hopeful of understanding, Andris Vitenburgs.” That's funny, it's not a decoy. As a rule, he answers. Yesterday, June 13. ‘ Hello! Unfortunately, I am forced to inform you that it is not possible for the Minister to participate in the programme due to the busy situation at the moment to comment on the events.” And now what you said yesterday is that this television, you see, has been bought up because there are facts - real facts - because there are people allowed to talk, there are no microphones locked out there, there were names. They are named, and the public knows that. And they know it! You, in turn, yesterday... What did you do as a Minister of Justice at the first minute of your speech? You drew out a colored A4 leaf, where I can see that I'm meeting with, I think, a banded rat. Me and Scratch... Why? I don't understand. Really, that creativity is so low for you! You couldn't send Haritonov, did you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If I'm going down the street and I'm coming up against Scratch, then what do I do? I'm running away from that bandit? What do I do? I can only tell him that he has a very embarrassing shirt. Next time Haritonov was sent to take a picture! Is Haritonova's number? I think it is! ( Interface: “With rabbarbers! ” ) Or with rabbarbons, try it! Next thing. Yesterday you said: “What are you talking about here about old things? It was already two to three years ago!” As a minister of justice, you have some idea of how long criminal responsibility can intervene... How long is responsibility valid? How long? It's about 10 years, isn't it? And the fact that you said it was already two... it's okay, it can be! Because you're Rasnač! Ten years you have been working in the Ministry of Justice! You know what you're doing? You better explain how Chairman of the Legal Commission of the Saeima Gaidis Berzins can be... Where you got the office, Mr. Berzine? Maybe you're coming, tell me. I think you have an office on Strelnieku Street 9. Strēlnieku iela 9 - along with Ilmārs Kruma, who was arrested together with Skrauds. And now you also have an office there. And you'll be there today, and you'll be sitting at one table. And then you're telling me I'm meeting Scratch... Today, all those who vote against or will abstain or not vote will support the insolvency mafia in Latvia. ( Interface: “It’s written there? ” ) This is the exact vote. Mr. Rasnačs, I don't know if you have any respect for society at all, or whether you live in your little turf bubble with your only follower of the Salon. But be a man! Press the button and tell him you're dissipating! You're still, I think, half of your life is in front of you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U42	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U43	Dear colleagues, Today, listening to Mr Rasnačs' speech, I realized that he personally felt that all those evil forces were united to send him out, and all those who demand it, especially on 14 June, are doing so for some bad purpose. But I think life is not so black and white that all the evil are against Rasnacz and otherwise everything is fine. Much has been done. I think the situation is much more complicated. I do not know whether Mr Rasnač himself understands this, but I think those who are watching the situation from the sideline see that there are many problems. And, frankly, it is sad to hear from the Minister that he has done everything possible, that the problems are solved and that there is significant progress. I think that's not the case. On the other hand, colleagues, I have no illusions about the applicants concerned. I'm sorry, but don't care about the rule of law. And they don't think about how to improve the situation in law in the country. There are completely different considerations. We all understand that this is a game. And I'm sorry, for example, with Mrs. Silvera, I worked for six months at a parliamentary committee of inquiry and, from a short distance, I saw their real goals. But there are problems. And before I start talking about content, I'd like to say that there are also communication problems. Because Mr Rasnačs was repeatedly invited to the meetings of the Unity Group to discuss matters with Members. But he's very busy, he doesn't have time. I am also working for the Legal Commission, and we are discussing issues that are of great importance. And I do not see the Minister in the Commission either. So I want to take the opportunity to ask today, and I very much hope that Mr Rasnačs will answer the question - I am happy that you have a pen in your hands - and not like, for example, the Latvian Radio this morning when he asked Mr Rasnačs whether Aigars Lūsis was a member of the National Union, but he told me something else, forgetting this question. I ask you not to forget, ignore and answer my questions in substance. And talking about insolvency. I always hear from you information about what has been done and how much has been done to change the situation, how well the insolvency administration is working and what changes have taken place. Colleagues, but I think everyone understands that the problem is not only with administrators but also with judges. If all our judges were honest, then receiving illegal... Having learned about illegal decisions taken by administrators, the actions of judges would be different. But we're the last... In one of the last sittings this week we talked about judges, about problems of judiciary, and colleagues experts openly told about the fact that there is no lack of honest judges. And there are judges who fail to deal with their duty, making wrong, unrighteous, illegal decisions. What can be done? And to be honest, I am sad to see that in the Legal Commission we discussed what to do with judges, whom we do not really know whether they are corrupt or not understand the law. For what is the offer that we received from individual judges? They propose a further test, a re-evaluation of qualifications. But is that the question? Are we really going to be able to make sure that people who work as judges do not make illegal decisions with a re-evaluation? I would therefore very much like to hear from Mr. Rasnač's clear vision of what needs to be done for judges who have serious doubts about their reputation... And, of course, they are not caught by their hands, and it is not really clear whether they received money for an illegal decision or simply have not been educated enough. How do we release the justice system from such judges? And I would very much like to hope that you will not respond to the simple words that we have an independent judiciary and that, as a minister, you do not have any room for action. We have the law “On Judicial Power”, and the Ministry has every opportunity to move forward with proposals to remedy the situation. Where are those proposals? Also, when it comes to judicial power, disciplinary responsibility must be mentioned. Last year or this year, we had a situation where a person working as a judge is studying at the Day Department. Where is the Minister's action, attitude? If our judges can, instead of adjudication, study somewhere in the daily section, and if they consider this to be appropriate, is our regulatory framework appropriate? I don't think so. Last week, we read about a new case, which also relates to the judiciary, about a judge who met one person in his office and drew it on paper: five thousand - that is not enough, it is necessary to pay seven thousand. Our prosecutor's office has said that there is not enough evidence to lead cases to justice. Question: "What do we do with a prosecutor's office that, despite clear signs, does not see anything? And that's not the first case. We had a similar situation with regard to the 'Ride negotiations'. And again... I hear your answer already: we have an independent prosecutor's office, everything is fine. We have the Public Prosecutor's Office Law. And if our law is inadequate, if our law allows these people to make such decisions, to work with a dubious reputation, then the situation must be corrected. I understand that the Minister may not be able to correct all... solve all problems. Of course, this is a difficult, difficult job. But I would like the person who runs the sector to be a person with initiative. It cannot be that we hear formal answers, or we do not even hear and see the Minister at all, and that nothing is changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U44	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U45	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, There are three very important pillars of the executive power in each parliamentary state monitoring the executive power, which ensures that the Prime Minister is fully operational. One pillar - that is the Ministry of Finance, it is the state max so that the state can function. The second is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is a country's relationship with its neighbours, friendly or unfriendly, a place in the entire international community. And the third is the Ministry of Justice, which is the backbone of the country. Thus, all decisions and laws, their projects, must go through this very important link between the rule of law. We know that the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the opinion of the Ministry of Justice should be on each draft law in Latvia. Consequently, the three ministers - the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Justice - are those whom we regard with great respect because we know their great responsibility. Each country can choose which other portfolios of ministers to divide according to political needs and, if necessary, perhaps even assign a portfolio to some "marriage general" - so that everyone is satisfied, because the coalition has often also to make decisions that perhaps not only national we can understand... Today, the Minister of Justice of the Republic of Latvia Dzintars Rasnačs has to say: I would like to see a golden side for that cloud - I am a positive person, I am an honor - but I do not see it. I have listened very carefully to the Minister's speech and, my colleagues, I have listened very carefully to your debate. But we are just such a very specific profession here - insolvency administrators. In other countries, frankly, nobody really understands why this profession is so special... I don't even have a lot of people... Why is it so important? Why is this topic so important from year to year in the Latvian Parliament, in the Latvian Government? Is that really the only subject? Is it really the only subject that the minister wants to do about here, can and can count on the parliamentary tribunal? Mr. Judine has already begun to tell a little about what we are doing in the Saeima Legal Commission. And yes, yesterday we had a significant sitting in which, when we decided on amendments to the law “On Judicial Power”, we also discussed what to do with honest judges. Mr Rasnačs did not say a word here. I would remind you that at the end of last year, the judges themselves, unable to withstand what is happening in their professional environment, wrote an open letter. They were mostly younger judges, many of the administrative courts who simply failed to bear the fact that there are colleagues among them who are continuing what they have begun... For every violation we may not be reading in the media, just for the greatest reading... But the answer is, What will you do? Two years away, we can't initiate disciplinary proceedings, we can't... But then? We also talked yesterday about the establishment of a special commission from among judges themselves, who will come up with proposals for what to do. We asked: when could this commission finish its work? And, you know, their representative said that they were hoping to cope in a few months, but at the moment they haven't even realized how many judges' decisions should be analysed. They go through the databases, realize that their decisions are abnormally numerous, and hope that maybe by the autumn they will manage the gathering of decisions. I can't even imagine how deep the problem is, and it's not just a problem called "insolvency administrators". This is a problem for the entire justice sector. It is therefore a problem for the whole executive, and it is a problem for this Prime Minister, both for the previous and for the previous - and that is what I could continue... The Minister of Justice is a very experienced politician. He has been in politics for a long time, and he knows that the strength of every team is as strong as its weakest link. As a professional lawyer, I find it painful to admit that the weakest stage of the Latvian government is the justice sector. And we measure the strength and capacity of the government: it is weak because there is a weak sector of justice. We are listening to reports - the report of the European Commission, the report of the Doing Business, the report of the Foreign Investors' Council in Latvia, and certainly a great many other reports - that Latvia's investment environment is the main problem for the justice sector. I don't know... It seems to me that we, as Members, are, of course, linked. And it is even more difficult for me as a coalition Member. Mrs Kleinberg said here from the tribunal that the Minister does not come to the meetings of the Group of the Latvian Association of Regions, because it is the opposition group. The Minister does not come to the group's Unity sittings because... Don't come. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Mafia reigns!” ; intermediate call: “So it’s all right!” ) I can count on my fingers how many meetings the Minister had at all. Don't come! So this situation with this important pillar - the Ministry of Justice - is quite sad in the Republic of Latvia. But there are strong officials in the Ministry of Justice, and this is my great hope that these people, who are so tired of their eyes and who seem to have to bear all the weight on their shoulders - that they can and will still, and hope. But for how long? That is the question. I do not even want to mention here the funny things that the Ministry of Justice is dealing with - the organisation of premarital courses, various political manifestos and calls against one or the other. But the officials have understood this, and they really do not participate in these matters. Colleagues, I really hope that the Minister, having listened to a further debate today, can come here in the troupe and explain why the judiciary... The judiciary must be considered much more broadly, beyond the insolvency administrators and the insolvency administration, which is now referred to as the Insolvency Control Service... Why still, 28 years after the restoration of independence, we cannot put an end to dishonesty, we cannot put an end to greed, we cannot put an end to all the other things that are really dangerous for our country, for our development? I think that each of us must make a very serious and difficult decision, because June is now in half: the government will only work for a relatively short time, and the breath of the Saeima will also be in a relatively short time. But believe me, Minister, to stand here in this troupe - that is a great deal of determination for us everyone who comes to the debate. And to vote in favour of asking for a commission - it is also a great deal of determination. FRATURE was sitting yesterday, sitting for a long time. Fraction’s Unity also sat this morning (Interface: “Do not sit!” ) and will continue to sit in its sittings (Interface: “You are sitting all the time! You need to work!” ), but we will probably make a decision next week. So there's still time to show... and maybe convince us. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Upenieks: “Inese for the Ministers of Justice!” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U46	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Ilmar, tell me why you left! Tell me!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U47	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Mr. High Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Members! If it was Dzintari Rasnach alone, I would say that he should remain in office! In this case, however, deeper regularities are being updated. I am very aware that there are also pre-election pressures and pre-election passions. In practice, nothing would change if we stopped the minister, but perhaps the situation would be even worse. However, in this case, really deeper regularities and great misunderstandings in Latvia's political environment have been updated. And Dzintar Rasnač may not be the main representative here, and maybe he is even the hostage of this system. I also welcome all the activities which have been listed by the Minister of Justice and which have recently been implemented. However, I must add at once that they do not affect the core of the problem. And why do we place a direct emphasis on the insolvency administration? Indeed, the situation there is extraordinary at this point. And here was already listed. We can compare airships - positive movements are being made, but their large ships cannot be turned. In the end, inefficiencies, rewards and costs are staggering in many cases, and I must say that elements of banditism have also been influx here. Let's call things in the right words! As we say, occupation must be called by the right name and not softer and more correct, so let us say, it is about banditism. And the other question is, where did all this come from? Is it a cosmic karma for us, or is it the legacy of the Soviet era? Oh, no! Here we come to the fact that for the last two years the Ministry of Justice of the Saeima has entrusted the same political power to three governments. All the time there is criticism - it is not good, and even coalition partners are criticised. Perhaps it would have been better at some point to give up politically tastefully: “We do not need this ministry so much if it is criticised, and especially for this!” But now... Maybe it's more a taste question. Thus, the soil itself has formed some form of soil. I must say that it has been created with the support of the coalition and under the cover of the coalition. And here we come to an issue that is closely linked to this dramatic situation - the coalition Treaty. In the past, at the Commission Andris Bērziņš, Member Andris Bērziņš, I thought they would break into pieces of that Ministry of Justice, and what they brought there. Wanted to say – paja, paja, Andri, cuš! I understand, I agree, but there's a coalition treaty, right? Yeah. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “That’s why I left my teeth at home in a glass!” ) UNIFORMITY also indicates their interference. But I also read in earlier interviews: what can be done is the coalition agreement! And that's not just about this case. It's been before. Coalition Agreement, Coalition Agreement. Or a cartel, as exactly from this tribunal at the beginning of this Saeima, was defined by Ringolds Balodis. I was sitting in the place that he is sitting now, really stabbing his head, because I was ashamed of being in the so-called cartel, and I think how precisely he has defined it! I don't know how we vote today, we may be the opposite... Indeed, life deserves to be a beautiful smile for us. But, to be more serious, think about how our view of life is affected by the chair in which we sit - whether it is the position we are in, or the group to which we belong - and how we depend on it, how we follow it and decide what is good, what is bad, what is right and what is wrong. And as a political system, we are gradually very upset if we do not destroy that true man. And then we come up with “holy” truths to explain, justify our vote primarily for others, but ultimately for ourselves. This is the system of all of us, which also leads to the inability to deal with this problem of insolvency administrators, with the soil that is being created for those meanings... Even to the banditism. Well, I see young people entering politics during these two Saeima, but they quickly become older than men. I want to ask, where are their burning, burning hearts? Only ash and slag are left - without heat and light. So, to these meanings, to the meanings of the insolvency administration, it has essentially led to Latvia's... the stagnation of our political system. It all starts with the fact that the parties are asking for ministerial portfolios on the basis of quotas. This is similar to the way in which the conquerors break the spoil. That is how we divide its ministries. And the second reason is the coalition agreement, which may be very necessary for constructive cooperation, but which in the short term leads to a cartel that promotes the soil of banditism. ( The utterance: “Truth! ”) ) If Dzintars Rasnačs were an independent person, I would say: there is no need to support this request for a mission! But in this case he is a representative of this pointless system and, I would even say, a hostage. Karl Sergeant said earlier: “This house needs to be blown up and started from scratch.” He could have misunderstood what the house was talking about. About this house? ( Milestones.) Oh! Yeah, yeah, yeah... Well, it's not yet known what was really meant here. Yeah. So, I think, this request for resignation and your vote are also a message to the next Saeima. Even more! It will not make a difference in this case, but it will show your determination to finally make one radical turnaround. Otherwise we will do and do: "It's not the right thing, it's not the right thing, and that's why we have to stay as it is!" And so it's forever. Sometimes we may need shocks to make things worse and to fall to the bottom. And for this reason, I will also support this vote of distrust, this request for a resignation. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U48	Dear colleagues, Members Abu Meri, Kalniņš, Loskutov, Gustovskis, Dalder, Brigmanis, Gaidis Berzins and Kleinberg are asked to announce a break at the Saeima sitting until 10 a.m. on June 20. Do Members have objections? Please call me! Let us vote for a break before 10 a.m. on June 20th this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 22, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So it was decided to announce a break at 12 noon in the Saeima sitting by 10 a.m. on June 20, this year. Obviously, we will continue the debate on 20 June. I would like to inform you about the meeting to be held today for answers to Members' questions. On the question of Member Zarina, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakava regarding the efficiency and validity of the application of the rules on compensation for over-compensation of electricity generation using renewable energy sources, Regulations of 16 March 2010 of the Cabinet of Ministers No 262. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to a pre-planned schedule no oral response can be given. Member Zarina, Potapkin, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Orlova asked the Prime Minister “On the failure of the ministers of the government led by Māra Kučinska to justify the sustainability of the social system”. The question was referred to the Minister for Welfare. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that it is not possible to attend an oral response due to a pre-planned measure. On the question of Member Zarina, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Morozova and Orlova to the Prime Minister about compliance of the government deal with the shares of “Conexus Baltic grid” AS with the interests of Latvia’s state and society”. The question was referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to the schedule. On the question of Member Zarina, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister of Health “On the competence of the Ministry of Health and the relevance of actions to the public interest in implementing Paula Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital’s second-stage construction project”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that it is not possible to attend an oral response due to a tight schedule of work. The question to the Minister for Economic Affairs of Member Zariņa, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova “On the Decision of the European Commission of 24 April 2017 on State Aid case No. SA. 43140 — ‘State aid SA. 43140 (2015/NN) - Latvia Support for renewable energy and availability of CUP in the state language”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to a pre-planned working schedule. On the question of Member Zariņa, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Asheradens “On the inability of the Minister of Economics to justify the application of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 262 “Regulations on electricity generation using renewable energy sources and pricing procedures” regarding self-consumption”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to a pre-planned working schedule. On the question of Member Zariņa, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister for Economics Arvilas Asheradens “On the strange basis of the Cabinet of Ministers’ Regulations No 262 “Regulations on electricity generation using renewable energy sources and pricing procedures” regarding “indecently committed violation”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to a pre-planned working schedule. For the Member Stepanenko, Silver, Bites, Shifas, Šics and Morozovas question to the Minister for Health Anda Čakša “On the measures included in the “Mother and Child Health Improvement Plan 2018-2020””. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. On the question of the Member Zarina, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister of Economics “Based on the validity and compliance of the “recompensation mechanism” provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 262 “Regulations on electricity production using renewable energy sources and pricing procedures”. No written reply was received. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to a pre-planned working schedule. However, please note that according to the parliamentary roll, the Minister must submit a written reply to the urgent question within 48 hours. Members Stepanenko, Silver, Morozov, Bite and Platoper put the question “On the possible signs of conflict of interest in the implementation of the School 2030 project”. The word for motivation to Member Julija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U49	Colleagues! It's very short. We want to know some questions about the implementation of the School 2030 project. These are: what criteria were the experts selected for this project; what was the cooperation with the real parents’ organisations and what companies might possibly have been involved in promoting this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U50	The question is referred to the Minister of Education and Science. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U51	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Boris Cilevičs... And, Alexander Jakimov, Artus Village... And, Aivars Maya, Artis Rasmanis, Romualds Ruguks... There, Carl Sergeant... And, Julia Stepanenko... There is, Sylvia Shiff, Zenta Tretjaka and Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-14-PT12-487-U52	Thank you. Interruption until 10 a.m. on June 20, this year. ( Interruption)
