ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 20 September 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the approval of Aiga Putniņa as a judge of district (city) court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the approval of Olga Žukas as a district (city) court judge” to be on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On re-appointment of Diana Liepiņa as a judge of district (city) court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Culture Capital Foundation”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And Members Kleinberga, Viļums, Krūmiņš, Bite and Šics are asking for the agenda item 26 of the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” (No 1251/Lp12) – to be moved before the agenda item 8 – the draft law “Pedvāle Art Park Law”. Do Members have objections? Members have reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for paragraph 26 of the agenda – the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” (No 1251/Lp12) to be moved before paragraph 8 of the agenda – the draft law “Pedvāle Art Park Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 22, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken - the agenda has been amended: the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” has been moved before point 8 of the draft law “Pedvāle Art Park Law”. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” be passed on to all Saeima committees, including the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U2	Good morning, colleagues, on this wonderful hot day, two weeks before the elections! Of course, we could do the same as the other groups: today we could vote in favour of passing this draft law on to the commissions. But we, the Unity, always! - working with argumentation. Always! We are not, and never were, a populist party, and we understand what such amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia mean. I do not believe that the members of the FAO Group are not aware that the proposal for a people-elected President of State represents a major change that would affect not only the mechanism by which the President is elected, but would also require a thorough review and balance of the President's mandate. To combat this idea, more extensive amendments to the basic law, as well as changes to laws such as the Presidential Election Law, the regulation of the presidential election campaign and several other laws... This requires a broad and competent discussion in society, which unfortunately (the Intersor. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) During the remainder of this parliamentary term, it is not possible to do so. These amendments tabled in the rush of Members, which have not even been accompanied by a weighted annotation, are not just a rule of law, but... Obviously, they have a completely different purpose. It is a conscious approach to so important constitutional amendments already approved by the Saeima, which provide for open elections by the President of Latvia. It is an attempt to try these so unwanted changes to torpedo, to fall asleep in this discussion with the idea of a people's elected president. The fact that the open election of the President is still being delayed in this way shows that this Saeima is not ready to account for its decisions and justify them to the voters. The influence of money and oligarchs in policies and election campaigns remains evident. Politicians are not disloyal from absurd and unrealistic promises, manipulating the daily problems and difficulties of Latvian people to catch more voices. If we cannot agree even on an open presidential election in the Saeima, we are not ready for a people-elected President. We cannot afford to give such great power to one person, aware of all possible risks. I will also remind you of the very important risk in this geopolitical situation, when we have a large neighbour behind the eastern border, which affects our internal policies every day. Finally. Pre-election populism has made it possible for Members of a political group to consider looking for legal solutions after the elections so that initiatives that affect the Constitution or the budget cannot be presented one month before the parliamentary elections and we do not have to discuss proposals for such content before the 14th parliamentary elections. Consequently, the Group's Unity does not support the referral of this draft law on the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia to commissions. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U3	Member Gunārs Kūtris has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U4	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I think all those who know Latvia's history also know very well that in the Latvian Constitution... all projects have always initially recorded that the President of Latvia is a people-elected person. And only during the discussion of projects - either personally or in the interests of a party - this project has always been rejected by the Saeima with a few votes (in its original form - with only three votes). In 1926 and 1927 there was a great discussion about this, because the people were dissatisfied with public administration; in 1933 and 1934, the Saeima even supported such amendments to the Constitution - simply on 15 May the cross for the third reading. There have been such ideas in the Saeima since 1993, and there have also been speeches on this issue several times. There was even a working group that collected all information for two years and concluded that the people's elected president was the best solution. On this, too, last week, here at the Saeima's sitting, when it comes to the amendments to the Constitution, it was said that what we are doing is actually a step backwards. The people's elected President is a step forward and has nothing to do with changes in the President's mandate. This was demonstrated by a working group chaired by Ringolds Balodis. So... Yes, I agree with the need for a careful change, and once again this change... we can discuss everything for a long time. However, I would like to remind you that over the last 15 years there has been a long discussion on this subject; projects have been prepared, analysed and concluded in the end: “You know, we are not yet geopolitically mature in Latvia. The people of Latvia are not safe about what it elects.” The Saeima is elected safely, but the President of Latvia is not elected safely! I understand that perhaps a party does not like people's elected officials. But at a time when the people do not trust the power, maybe still give the people this right to vote... Today I will not analyse all the historic peripetia and also why the nation-elected President of Latvia is a better solution. Perhaps some say that in a geopolitical situation money will have more power. I can put you in front of the draft table law tomorrow, which shows how the presidential elections can take place, not in the American version - which has a lot of money - but normally. Look at how Lithuanians can provide it without major problems! And the bodies... I fully agree that the Constitution should not be amended hastyly and should not change the Constitution only in the last month because... “ You know, we were before the elections... We need the people to show themselves good. We're going to be the open ones... “ Depp. ” — Depp. H.Abu Mary: “And where have you been for four years?” ) In reality, the people have been lied that we will vote openly. A prior agreement on the nomination is still in place. I would rather like to say this: we want to manipulate the opinion of the people. For if the people are asked, "What do you want, that the Saeima vote openly or closed when it elects the President of Latvia?" Then the people will say, “Of course, we want to be honest.” But if the people are asked, “Do you want people to be elected or the Saeima to be elected?” Then... In recent years, 70 percent of people say: “We want the president elected by the people.” So it's completely logical. I understand that the slogan has been put forward by all the parties and associations of parties sitting on these chairs (with the exception of, of course, Unity). I very much hope that this promise made in 2014 and 2017, when President Vējonis led this project... that this promise is given to the people and you will not change that promise during your parliamentary term. If you want to change this promise today, how can you believe in your promises? One Saeima is promised, but when the next... In a bad situation, you may not want to vote for it. So I'm going to remind you of just a few phrases from what you said, and I'm calling you to consider... For example, Raivis Dzintars said very well last year that the President of Latvia should consider Latvian citizens as his employer. Nelly Kleinberg said very well that such a step could help to alleviate the country's crisis of confidence. That's absolutely right! Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on you to respect... ( Milestones.) I call on you to respect what you have promised yourself and call for you to vote in favour of this project being passed on to the Commission. ( The ZZS fraction is full.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U5	Colleagues! We have to vote. So one Member has spoken 'for', one Member has spoken 'no'. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” (No 1344/Lp12) to all commissions, including the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 15, for - 2. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. (Applause) And, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the Group of the Regions of Latvia - Member Inga Bite. The name of the Member Inga Bite - to read the motivation for voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U6	Dear colleagues, The Latvian Regions Association has consistently supported the idea of the elected President of Latvia before the election to the 12th Saeima. Such a draft law was submitted to the 12th Saeima in December 2014 and the Association of Latvian Regions supported its transfer to commissions. Unfortunately, today... The draft legislative act submitted is hasty, inconsistent with the requirements of the legal technique and good legislative practice. No appointment procedure or specific election procedure has been developed and submitted for the post of President of the Republic. No changes are proposed to related laws - the Law on Election of the President, the Rally of the Saeima and others. It is therefore obvious that the draft law presented is not aimed at changing the procedure for the election of the President of Latvia, but it is likely that arguments will be sought to reject this proposal submitted by the Association of the Regions of Latvia, which provides for public elections to the President of Latvia. Moreover, it should also be taken into account that until the end of the 12th parliamentary term, only six regular sittings have been held, where it is no longer objectively possible to fully discuss any necessary changes. In the light of these arguments, the Association of Latvian Regions calls on the Saeima to be consistent and to fulfil the promise given to its voters - to first support the open election of the President of Latvia, which is possible by the election of the next President of Latvia. However, it will be possible to fully develop and implement the idea of the publicly elected President of Latvia only for the President of Latvia, who will be elected in 2023. This is the solution that the Association of the Regions of Latvia supported with its vote today. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U7	Thank you. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” presented by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” presented by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Apartment Property” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” be referred to the committee responsible for first reading without re-examination and considered as the first item of the agenda under “Review of draft laws”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs also asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination in the committee responsible and to include it as the second item of the agenda in the section “Review of draft laws”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of State Administration and Local Government is asking to review the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” to be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Report by the Saeima Bureau on an own-initiative proposal submitted. Dear colleagues, The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted a draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 516 Latvian citizens “The earth under apartment buildings should be owned only by residents of these houses”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Ivan Klementyev on 20 September this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Ivan Klementyev, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 20 September this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Vital Orlov on 20 September this year. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Vitaly Orlov to cancel unpaid leave. We therefore do not have to decide on this either. The leave is therefore cancelled. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision ‘On the approval of Aiga Putniņa as a district (city) court judge’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U8	Good morning, honourable colleagues! The draft decision “On the approval of Aiga Putniņa as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 18 September this year. In 2007, Aiga Putniņa graduated from the University of Latvia, obtaining the qualification of a lawyer, but in 2008 he also received a Master of Social Sciences in Law. On 22 October 2015, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed him as a judge of a district (city) court. The Council for the Judiciary, based on the law “On Judicial Power”, imposed on her to perform the duties of a judge in the Administrative district court in Riga. The judge Aiga Putniņa will have worked as a judge for three years on 21 October 2018. She has participated in 41 seminar of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia to improve her qualification. The judge looks at the cases related to public procurement and the distribution of European structural funds (incitement of decisions of the Rural Support Service, Investment and Development Agency of Latvia), as well as the cases related to construction, spatial planning and environmental law, social assistance, social insurance and employment issues, as well as issues related to the state civil service. A positive statement has been received about her work from the Administrative District Court, which shows that the judge is able to plan time and organize work. The number of cases closed corresponds to the average of the courts. Aiga Putniņa is also positively characterized by the Administrative Regional Court. The work of the judge in preparing decisions in general should be regarded as very good. The Judicial Qualification Committee has evaluated positively the professional activities of Aiga Putniņa, a judge of the Administrative district court, and has delivered a positive opinion for the approval of a judge without any limitation of the term of office. In the light of the above, the members of the Commission have unanimously approved the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Aiga Putniņa to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Aiga Putniņa as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Olga Žukas as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U10	The draft decision “On the approval of Olga Žukas as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 18 September this year. Olga Žuka was born in 1983. In 2006, he graduated from the Latvian Police Academy, obtaining a lawyer's qualification. In 2008, he also received master's degree in law in the sub-sector of national law. On 26 November 2015, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Olga Žuka as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered her to perform the duties of a judge in Jurmala court house of Riga district court. On January 15, 2018, due to judicial reform Olga Žuka was recognised as a judge in Riga district court in Jurmala. Olga Žuka will have served as a judge for three years on 21 November 2018. She has participated in 28 seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia, as well as training organised by the Judicial Administration and the Latvian Municipal Training Centre for the Protection of Children's Rights. The judge looks at all categories of civil cases, applications, applications and materials examined during out-of-court sittings, as well as has replaced the judge of investigation. The work of Olga Žukas received positive feedback from Riga District Court, Riga Regional Court Committee on Criminal Cases, Riga Regional Court College on Civil Cases. From the comments it can be concluded that Olga Žuka is able to perform the duties of a professional and full judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee has assessed the positive professional activity of the Riga district court judge Olga Žukas and has given a positive opinion for the approval of the judge without limitation of the term of office. In view of the above, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Mr Olga Juka to confirm his appointment as a district (city) court judge without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Olga Žukas as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On re-appointment of Diana Liepiņa as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U12	The draft decision “On re-appointment of Diana Liepiņa as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 18 September this year. Diāna Liepiņa was born in 1966. In 2004, she graduated from the Latvian Police Academy, obtaining a lawyer's qualification. In 2007, Turiba University received a professional master's degree in law. On 22 October 2015, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Diana Liepiņš as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered her to perform the duties of a judge in Riga district court, and then moved to Jurmala court house of Riga district court, but on January 15, 2018, due to judicial reform Diāna Liepiņa was recognised as a judge in Riga district court in Jurmala. Diāna Liepiņa will have served as a judge for three years on 21 October 2018. The judge has participated in 41 seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia, as well as training organised by the Judicial Administration and the Latvian Municipal Training Centre for the Protection of Children's Rights. The judge Diāna Liepiņš views all categories of civil cases, with the exception of insolvency and complaints about actions of ZTI, applications, applications and materials to be examined outside the court hearing, as well as performs the duties of the investigating judge. Reviews have been received about work of the judge from Riga district court, from Riga regional court college of the Criminal Court, as well as from Riga regional court college of the Civil Cases. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of the Riga district court judge Diāna Liepiņa and has decided to give a positive opinion on the appointment of the Riga district court judge Diāna Liepiņa for the term of office of the judge for up to two years. In view of the above, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Diana Liepina to be the judge of the district (city) court for up to two years.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U13	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On re-appointment of Diana Liepiņa as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U15	On the agenda - examination of draft laws. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U16	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Members of the Saeima Bureau! Dear Members and honourable Members, Today, on behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I have a duty to present to you the draft law (No 1346/Lp12), in which Members of the Saeima have actively participated, working in the task force for seniors, Members of the House, Vectir and many others have actively participated in the draft law. Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” include the issue of indexation of pensions in 2019 for those persons who have worked for more than 45 years in their working life. These issues were discussed both by our members of the Commission and by other colleagues during this summer and also by people in Latvia in the past. For example, Mr Talso said: “What are you doing there with those little periods of work? My job is 61 years old, and I am still working." And then we looked at our closest neighbors in the Commission. In Estonia, too, working times exceed 45 years of work, and in Estonia, too, they are 80 percent, which is measured by wage increases in the previous year when indexing the pension. With regard to these amendments to the Law on State Pensions, we have reached an agreement... And I invite you, too, to listen... In the past, I have already named two of our honourable generals, who are actively cooperating with the Ministry of Defence... And here it is in the bill... We invite you to state paragraph 1, paragraph 2, in the following wording: “2 service in the army of the Republic of Latvia, and also to Latvian citizens - service in the armed forces of the USSR;”. This is a proposal with a rather long history. In the current version of the law, today there is a norm that the service in the Armed Forces of the USSR is credited only to those who, when our state was reinstated, gave up another state pension. But, honourable colleagues, this is about those who were young people and who did not have another country's pension to give up... They are our Latvian citizens and have served in good faith in the army of the Republic of Latvia. Dear colleagues, Go on. Point 41.5 is added to the transitional provisions. And that is what society is asking us. This is an indexation of the premiums for the length of service. This issue has also been discussed very seriously in our working groups and in the Social and Labour Commission. What is more, last Thursday, honourable colleagues, we referred to the Social and Labour Commission's proposal on the need to renew the payment for the length of service to those who retired from 1 January 2012. The draft law shall provide for a period during which the Cabinet of Ministers must draw up the rules referred to in subparagraph 41.5 of the transitional provisions of the law on the procedure for calculating, determining and reviewing the amount of the premium. This date is also very reasonable, because we have always taken into account the fact that the State Social Insurance Agency changes its programmes and ensures both the indexation of pensions, the premium and the payment of pensions granted in good time. And a little data for 2018. About July this year. Here, my fellow Members, with deep respect, I refer to this number - how many seniors are currently in Latvia, whose working life is 45 years or more. And that's 95 thousand and 300. That is what I wanted to say on behalf of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. I call for urgent action to be taken on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U17	Thank you. Mr. Debtor, do you want to talk about urgency or to debate? So Mr Debtor wants to speak in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. And the commission is asking apparently... and open the debate. Thank you. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U18	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Does the state have to take care of one of the most vulnerable groups - pensioners? Of course. Do we have to do everything to find funds and provide support, even if there are quite difficult financial conditions in the budget? Of course. Do we need to appreciate the contribution of each individual and, in particular, the length of work in providing support? I think that every response will be positive, it is also included in this draft law. If we have found additional funds, that is excellent. In 2019 we have a total of 3.5 million, in 2020 - 15 million and in 2021 - 23 million. How we are best, most purposeful, most fair (I stress - most fair!) the allocation of these funds to this socially disadvantaged group? What is proposed in this bill is beautiful. Where, though, will we take about as much money as possible to distribute to those most in need? About the length of service. In this case, all due respect for those who have worked for 44 years or more. Support is needed. But already now they have an average pension of EUR 423, and there are 95 thousand people. We offer their job experience to be appreciated even more generously. Once again, I voted in favour of it by both hands. What is happening only in a situation where the length of work is between 10 and 20 years? What is the weight of his record in cash? How much does he get for it? With a 10-year period of seven euros, the minimum pension in this case is about 70 euros. What is the weight of his length of service if this length of service is 20 years? EUR 3.5. What is the weight of the length of work in monetary terms if it is 21 years? Eighty-three euros receive, i.e. €3.95. In turn, if there are 30 years of working experience, only €2.77. There are 24 000 people who are currently receiving a pension below EUR 100. To provide them with even this absolute minimum, only 3.5 million are needed. We must provide a pension at least at the minimum income level for persons whose length of service could be above 20... say, 25 years. In this case, we need about 24 million. The exact extent to which this claim is made in 2021. We need to put weight on the cups that we support as a priority: on the one hand or on the other. If we have twice as much money, let's put both. If we want to prevent injustice... which has already been submitted to a commission that the panel will assess... and, at some point, we will have to make a distinction in order to provide the service premium for those who have retired until 2011. This will also require additional money (Dep. A.Barča: “After 2011”. )... after 2011. They will also need extra money. We need to consider these arguments in order to allocate additional funds. I call on the Commission to examine all aspects of this second reading, and I will certainly put forward proposals in order to find an optimal solution - possibly with an additional allocation of funds - so that justice can be ensured precisely for this socially most vulnerable group, for which the actual length of work has not been assessed at the appropriate level. I stress once again - €2.77 for almost 30 years! It's injustice! Eighty-three euros are received by this person. I will make proposals. I hope, colleagues, that you will also support such a distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U19	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U20	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Of course, we also have the problem - what to do with the minimum social security benefit, which determines the amount of the minimum pension. The concept developed by the Ministry of Welfare addresses this issue. And if we really had the opportunity to move this issue forward during this Saeima, as Mr Debtor said, it would, in my opinion, be great. But at the same time... I think that this should certainly not prevent the adoption of this law, because the priorities that are in this law are also very important to our seniors, and this should be supported. So I call for my support today at first reading and for my second reading to be agreed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U21	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U22	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, however, I have to introduce some little clarity. In his speech today, Mr. Debtor spoke of persons who have worked for 10 years in their working life. I would remind you that currently the law “On State Pensions” provides that a person who applies for a state old-age pension must be at a certain age, which is 63 years and three months of service, when the state social insurance contributions have been paid for 15 years or more. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “30 years! I am talking about 30 years!” ) I understand Mr. Debtor's concern also about these people, who have 10 years of working experience... and up to 15 years at least... But it's another law. This is the State Social Benefits Act. And it's a state social security benefit. And I inform you, colleagues, that the Ministry of Welfare is currently working very seriously on the issue of the minimum subsistence allowance, on the increase of the minimum pension and, therefore, on the increase of the state social security benefit. But, honourable colleagues, the question can also be explained by the fact that for persons aged 30 or over, when they retire, there is another good thing that the Saeima has supported and is enshrined in the law “On State Pensions”. And it is as follows: for persons who have 30 or more years of proven length of service, the average wage in the country at that time is taken into account for the period from 1 January 1996 to 31 December 1999. Because the legislator has recently investigated that at that time, very many working groups had significantly lower wages. And more. We remember, colleagues, that in 1995, the average salary, according to which all the pensions of 1996 were calculated, was $85. Dear colleagues, I really call for this time to trust the Social and Labour Affairs Commission and the Ministry of Welfare, whose opinion, very serious and balanced, we have received a working group in which the Minister of Welfare, Jānis Reirs, also took part.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U23	So no more Members to debate... ( Interface: “It came to an end... !” ) No, it is no longer possible to debate. The debate was... Yes, the debate is closed. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U24	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I invite you to submit your proposals today, on 20 September, by 5 p.m.; second reading of the draft law - 27 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U25	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals - 20 September this year by 5 p.m. and the final reading of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima - 27 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U27	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U28	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” addresses only one issue which is very important, namely the non-applicable minimum of persons who have been granted a pension, a retirement pension or a special state pension. Currently, this non-taxable minimum is EUR 250 per month. According to the already adopted law, in 2019 it will be 270 euros per month, in 2020 - 300 euros per month, and if we do not change anything in the law, so it will remain in the years to come. At the moment, the government is working on a medium-term budget, which also covers 2021, and it would be very appropriate to continue with an increase in the unlimited minimum in 2021, because, however, individual types of income for pensioners are larger than... The types of expenditure are larger than for other population groups, in particular healthcare expenditure. And therefore, the adoption of such a law, which in 2021 would increase this threshold by a further 30 euros - up to 330 euros - would have a positive impact on the purchasing power of pension beneficiaries and reduce the risk of pensioner poverty. It must be said that it is only partially reduced, because this amount is, in fact, also relatively small. The draft law was developed in the working group of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission in cooperation with pensioners' organisations and the Ministry of Welfare. The draft law is also agreed with the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, I call for the urgency of this draft law to be determined first, as the budgetary process is under way and the draft law should be adopted in good time so that the Ministry of Finance can prepare the budget for 2021, including this increase. So on behalf of the Commission, I call for urgent support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. Members have applied for a debate. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U30	Thank you. Good morning, honourable Members! In the Group meeting yesterday, we read to the whole group one letter from the Jellgower John, who was published in the Independent Morning newspaper. Yelgavnieks John denies TO SASKAN that, although it speaks very actively about the inequitable minimum for pensioners, it still supports the draft law that we have talked about today... that in 2021 the unlimited minimum will be 330 euros. Clearly, there is no alternative today, and if we vote differently, the pensioners will not understand... Because today, the unlimited minimum for pensioners is EUR 250. But today we explain to both Yen and all readers of the “Independent Morning News” that we will try to achieve a much higher limit. We submitted an application to the Constitutional Court two weeks ago regarding the fact that the law “On Personal Income Tax” does not comply with Articles 107 and 109 of the Satversme. What are those articles about? That everyone has the right to social security at the age. We are talking about the fact that those articles are not being fulfilled! Already today, the poverty risk threshold, according to the Central Statistical Administration, is €330. If it were a statement that next year the unlimited minimum would be 330 euros, then perhaps there would be no application to the Constitutional Court. But due to the fact that we are talking about 2021, I declare that in two weeks' time, when the application will be accepted in the review, we will try to fight to have another article in the law “On Personal Income Tax” next year, with an inextricable minimum of at least EUR 430. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U31	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U32	Thank you to Mr Klementyev for starting a very important thesis. I have an analysis of the situation at risk of poverty in Latvia. And what are these Central Statistical Committee data? The poverty threshold in 2014 was 291 euros, in 2015 - 318 euros, in 2016, that is, two years ago, the poverty threshold was 330 euros. And we are now saying that income tax will have to be introduced from this poverty line in five years' time. It's immoral at all! ( Internouncing call.) We are now talking about the year 2021, when the poverty threshold, according to the forecasts of the Central Statistical Administration, is over €450, and we say: no, that year too, all the poor who cannot survive must be taxed! So we're really like the Saeima, the people who respect their old people... A more significant poverty threshold is for low-income pensioners... We cannot now introduce an immoral rule into the law because, for that money, pensioners will be forced to return to the consolidated budget with discounts; its money will be returned through value added tax, through excise duty, through others... through consumption. And people will get that money, and the budget will not suffer. So I think we have to discuss it carefully. Yes, this law must be adopted, and it must be adopted urgently, but it must clearly demonstrate its political will: we do not tax people who have not reached the poverty line in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U33	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U34	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! First of all, of course, I call for this draft law to be adopted as it is, because it is agreed with the Ministry of Finance and at this point we probably cannot achieve more. What I think would be right in the medium-term budget (and I hope the next Saeima... Members who will be present at the next Saeima will listen to this) - to raise to at least 350 euros this inexpensive minimum in 2021. It was also the original aim of our commission, but we have not yet succeeded in bringing it into line with the Ministry of Finance. But I hope you can do that in the future. And, of course, if you could raise even faster, it would be good. But on the other hand, however... We remember the previous discussion... And there are other disadvantaged groups and, above all, these beneficiaries of minimum benefits, which are actually... and includes people with disabilities who have not been able to work objectively, with a slightly higher amount of this allowance, but still catastrophicly small. So, looking at the rise in these different social groups... That is, we must look at all these social groups in order to reduce poverty and reduce inequality in the country. That is what I would also like to wish the next Members. But at this point in time, I am calling for support to be given to the draft law at first reading, as it has been submitted.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U35	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? How's the commission's rapporteur?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U36	On behalf of the Commission, I also call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U38	The Commission is calling, if it were acceptable to you, for this draft law to be adopted immediately at second reading, because purely technical nothing needs to be changed there and this provision is in line with the Ministry of Finance. I don't think we could reconcile anything else. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I call for a vote to be taken immediately at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U39	Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law? So Members have reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U40	If Members have reservations, then I call for the deadline for tabling proposals today to be 5 p.m. and for the next sitting to be held.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U41	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 20 September this year by 5 p.m., consideration by the Saeima at its sitting - 27 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins. But, honourable colleagues, before we turn to this agenda issue... At least two thirds of the Saeima Members must take part in the sitting and we must register for the quorum. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! 89 Members have registered. In accordance with the Constitution, we can begin to consider an amendment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U42	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”. One proposal was submitted to the Commission. Having assessed this proposal, we found that Articles 35, 50, 51 and 52 of the Satversme also need to be amended in order to change the procedure for the election of the President of Latvia. Such amendments should be seen in three readings. Having listened to the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, we also noted that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia in its judgment of 16 December 2008 in case No.2008-09-0106 made the following statement (please quote): “In accordance with the rule of procedure of the Saeima in the course of the examination of the draft law, the relevant article, part thereof or amendments to the legal norm may be included at both second and third readings. This shall not apply only to the cases when amendments to the Constitution are considered in accordance with Article 76 of the Satversme - at second and third reading only those articles (on amendments or exclusions of articles) which have been adopted in the draft law when adopted at first reading may be submitted for the second and third reading.” As we know, according to Section 32 of the Constitutional Court Law, the conclusions expressed in the judgment of the Constitutional Court are mandatory for all state and municipal institutions, including the legislator. The Commission therefore found that this proposal was not to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U43	So the proposal is not put to the vote, but it is possible to have a debate on it. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U44	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, First of all, we must understand that the Constitution must not be changed at the speed we are doing. It's immoral! Here everyone is talking in the pre-election atmosphere, every time you look at Facebook, what they look like. Putra tries to talk to herself, showing herself in the best light... What's going on here? The neighbor just can't talk, he's worried how to look better when talking to voters in the evening... The Constitution must not be changed at such a pace! I would like to point out that it is very beautiful for the public that this amendment to the Constitution... I am not talking about Kalnozola, I am talking about this amendment to the Constitution... that it will fundamentally change something. I think it won't change anything... and this is the correction. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Villums: Talk about the proposal! ) If we are talking about this proposal, it is certainly incomplete. It is not about the word "proportional" appearing there. I would really like to see the President elected in equal, general and proportional elections. These are small-scale elections. That's phenomenal at all! But let's keep it. I think that is the direction that the ZZS has taken... All in all, I am completely “for”. Of course, this needs to be reviewed within the Commission. Of course, this Saeima cannot do this both because of its mood and purely practical, and of course it will be passed on to the next Saeima. And, of course, this is not just about this proposal, which is in Article 35... Also Articles 36, 42, 43, 44 and 53... And in this respect... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) In this respect, I think it is necessary to understand the fundamental difference that we are looking at. And here's the speakers... Mr Kūtra also mentioned earlier that the Latvian State initially intended to have a nation-elected president in the draft Constitution. And this question of the change in the election of the President of Latvia, over and over again. I would not want to go out here in long speeches, both colleagues - both Nanozol, Mežeckis and Stepanenko - will be able to do so; I would just like to say: who is the elected President of Parliament, and who is the elected President of a set of citizens? The President elected by Parliament shall be elected by the votes of the Members of Parliament and shall be secret. There's nowhere open. Closed up! Second round. In the Chambers of the House, like ours, too... in all these countries except Latvia and... Listen to the name Botswana - it's a beautiful name, the name of a distant land... The faraway Botswana and the Dominican Republic, which is even more... In all these countries, the President shall be elected by a qualified majority of two-thirds of the votes. Two thirds of votes are required in all these countries, with the exception of Botswana, Latvia and the Dominican Republic, for the election of the President. Two-thirds of the votes! We have 51 votes... In Lebanon, if the President has not obtained two-thirds of the votes - a majority - the second round of elections shall be held. In this respect, however, I agree with Mr Kalnozol, whose proposal is essentially based on the fact that we are changing the election model because... it is fairer, clearer and more reasonable, but... Once again, I stress that this proposal is not complete. So there is a need for a series of articles to change this procedure as it is... And I, as far as this vote is not... Well, I will support this open vote in this case, but once again I say that it will do nothing good, and it will do nothing wrong. It is easy for everyone to see the clear boundaries of the political group, because the vote will not differ in any way within the political groups. It must be remembered that who will vote against will become an independent Member. And what can an independent Member in this parliament do? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “There’s a lot! A lot of things!” ) Nothing! And that is why the majority will vote, as the group will say, and that is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U45	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U46	Hello, brothers and sisters! First of all, I would like to thank my group - the ZZS Group - very much, especially Armandas Krauzem and his assistant. And especially Gunar Kūtris. I think you wouldn't have supported this bill without Armand's correction and his assistant's correction. I also think that Mr Kūtra has repeatedly been better in defending this bill than I could do. I would also like to say a great deal of thanks for having won the common sense. Thank you very much for your support for this draft law. I think we all see that an open President's vote is a return 30 years ago in these premises, when there was the Supreme Council and the Members voted under the supervision of the Committee and the KGB. And if one of the Members did not vote the way he needed, he was counted - with the methods of that time. For the moment... Apologies, Unity!... but the media... but an open-vote president... I'm more aware of... as a president who is voted with media information support. There is information in the media that we Members must vote on. And if one of the Members votes differently in an open vote, their mass in the media is being written about absolutely "good" things. Thank you for trusting the people. Thank you for believing that we have a wise, reasonable and powerful people! I fully agree with Mr Kūtra: there are mechanisms for the people to elect a president in an honest election, so that this race is a principle so that these election campaigns are fair. What do I want to say to you as the next President of our country? I do not want the post of President to be an object of the market, as the Unity wishes! Market object or... What will we exchange with it: with the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Education and Science and so on? The President of State must be elected by the people, with the support of the people. And I fully agree that this proposal - the people's elected President - must be discussed. But do you not need to talk about it and debate it, as Mr Curry said? Debate, debate, debate, debate, and the bill has disappeared... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U47	The name to Member Roman Mežecki.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U48	Hello, dear colleagues! The first and the main question: what kind of President do we need? We need a strong nation leader to hear. V.Spolish's intermediate calls.) and treat all residents of Latvia with equal respect, regardless of their gender, age, mother tongue or place of residence. Can such a nation's leaders be elected when voting in the Saeima? No, never in your life! That's impossible! Why? Because some ruling parties never - never! - They won't. They do not need a strong President because, first of all, it will not depend on these parties (Dep. V.Spolitis: “Sorry!” , on the other hand, thanks to the support of the people, it can deprive the parties of their power and, thirdly, the elected president of the people can change the situation in the country. But power parties and their leaders are good. Therefore, they do not need any changes. How to elect a president in the Saeima? - That's a question. Open or closed? This question is pointless. What will change?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Will there be an increase in wages and pensions? No, no! Will corruption be reduced? No, no! Will this lead to new politicians and more competent ministers? No, no! Only when people elect their own president will he be able to stand up against this party's cartel and put it in good shape. Sometimes strange arguments arise as to why the President should be elected in the Saeima rather than in the people's vote. And, you know, sometimes get angry by listening to some former politicians - forgive me! - nightmares about our people not being smart enough to elect a president. No, the people are smart! And it's coming, it's coming! - the moment it makes its choice. And it is the people who will elect their own president. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U49	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U50	Dear colleagues, Why have we come to this situation: before the Saeima elections, we try urgently to do the homework that the President of Latvia had already given us? I have a version of why this has happened. CONNECTION... We have seen today's vote and we know that this power has slowed down the idea, the initiative for a people's elected president. The most funny reason we've heard... argument against this idea... ON THE side of the Unity there is distrust among the people in the geopolitical situation. ( Independence: “Do not lie. Don’t lie!” ) I guess there is another nation, an imaginary, on whose support it hopes the Saeima elections. ( Internouncing call.) Venue with their subjective beliefs: People are too inexpensive and propaganda to vote for the right person. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “It was said to you at the Russian Embassy?” ) Hide grandmother’s passport, do not let uneducated people go to the elections... and the rhetoric of a similar arrogant has now overcrowded public space and is evidence of only one thing: people who regard themselves as superior to the choice of others (Dep. V.Spolitis: “Look in the mirror, Stepanenko!” ), a force that stands up for equality in words, actually separates people. And their views do not differ from those of politicians who did not want to grant electoral rights to women in the past. The position of Unity in trying to restrict the rights of the people is the position of losers, Mr. Spoolis. The initiative on the popular elected president will restore interest in politics to Latvian society (Dep. L. Cigan and dep. V.Spolish's intermediate calls.) and strengthen the conviction that the nation is the leader in its own country. I believe that the people must participate much more in politics, especially in the context of the geopolitical situation, because a politically active nation means a politically educated nation. And that in turn means a safe state. Finally, colleagues, of course, I am in favour of the open presidential elections, but most of all I am in favour of the election of the President by the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U51	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U52	Good morning, colleagues! Such elevating, pathetic speech! We call a lot of people. But we understand very well why this proposal, and also the draft law on which we are voting, - on the amendments to the Constitution, on the elected President of the people - has been tabled. That's because... Unbelievably, these amendments, in which this proposal is inside, which we tabled and which are in favour of an open presidential election, have moved very far and are in fact one step away from real adoption. And now there's a question. We have two weeks left before the elections. What can we do technically and what can we not do? It is absolutely clear that the amendments to the Constitution on the elected president of a people cannot be adopted, firstly because of a lack of time and, secondly, because these amendments tabled are of a poor quality, because they do not provide anything - in what way we are stating how we are removing the president so elected, how we control his finances and campaign from a security point of view... Evaluation... Amendments to the law... So we can't physically. You know that, those present know it. And then the question is, why were they presented? Because we are one step away so that the next President of Latvia is elected openly, not in this political market. Moreover, as Mr Kalnozol explains, it turns out that there is a change even with the ministries or, to say, a redistribution of zones of influence. That is why we are tabling these amendments. And you see, there's one important thing. The fact that with these amendments, the president would be elected by the people... Many talk about trusting the people. We know that these amendments cannot be accepted and have been tabled on the pretext... in order not to accept an open election. And you say that we trust the people, but today's most important question is, can the people trust you? ( The transcripts are: “Exactly! Yes!’ Thank you very much. Because among those present... Practically everyone, Mr. Brigmann, especially... On Unity and National Association it's clear... and the Association of Latvian Regions... that they have supported it. SASKAŅA, Mr. Urbanoviča, has also clearly said and promised to the public in public interviews that ZZS and SASKA will support the publicly elected President of Latvia. Now, behold, speak less about how you believe in the people, but make sure that the people can trust you. There are two weeks left before the Saeima elections. We all understand that this is the only period during which the idea of an open election of the President of Latvia is possible. Let's not play the games that's going on now! There are two very important dates - 26 September, when the meeting of the Legal Commission is absolutely imperative. All Members must be! ( Interface: “Maximum! ”) ) There should also be a common fisheries policy. And Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere must also be! The decision must be taken on 4 October - that is the last day that this Saeima can adopt amendments at third, last, reading. And I also call on the media and the public to keep track of how the FAO and the ACQUISITION will deliver on the promise they have made to society. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U53	Name of Member Līga Kozlovsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U54	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “What is your name? We don’t know you!” (See the box below.) Līga Kozlovska. Okay. Thank you, who doesn't know. ( Insight: ‘ In silence! ’) ) Why did I sign for amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, but for people elected by the President of Latvia in a secret vote? One reason. Because I believe that it is the highest form of democracy, in the best conscience and according to my knowledge. Otherwise, it is a deformity of manipulation and democracy. And since Mr. Kaimiņš always mentions Communists, I will give you one small, short example. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) Thank you. Yeah, but let me tell you something. Dear Members, In the 1980 ’ s, while I was still naive, I wrote a small article in a local newspaper after the Institute was finished. The problems and absences of the city, with good thoughts, wanting to change the world. I was called to a district party office meeting. As a man who has done very illegal things, as a man who has done very inappropriate things in accordance with the rules of that time. All the staff of the party's office voted in open vote against me - that I have acted antisocially, anti-stately. But then, after this vote, after this open unanimous vote, many people, the pigeons, came to me and said: “Liga, I am for you, with you!” And after this little story, which is in fact directly related to the issue that we have raised, I am “for” the elected president of a nation. This is the highest form of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U55	Member Astrid Harjus.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U56	Dear Saeima! REPRESENTATION Members believe that the current procedure for the election of the President of Latvia is not in line with the principles of today's openness and does not contribute to further development of the country. The Legal Commission of the Saeima set up a working group to deal with the issue of the President elected by an open vote... Inese Lībiņa-Egnere worked in the previous parliamentary term... However, without the support of other party members, this issue could not be moved further to the Saeima. At the moment, to put the election of the President on the shoulders of the people, Members want to reduce their responsibility towards the people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Exactly! Yes!’ ) Members do not want to take responsibility, instead they are ready to place even more expenses on the people - both the expenses of the Presidential elections and the expenses of the enlarged Presidential Chancellery. ( The utterances: “Exactly! ”) ) Because how else will the division of power be carried out? In support of the Greens/Earthers Union proposal for a people-elected president, we... In view of the current quality of voter participation, we can come to a president whose glory is equal to the glory of Lemberg, Ushakov, Grigule... The experience of the United States shows this: the election of Trump as President and his follow-up, which concerns all countries around the world. Director of the Institute of Public Law Arvīds Dravnieks indicated in this morning's interview that it would be halfway to the regime of leadership. Therefore, honourable Members, it is not the time of the cardinal but of the improvement solutions. Members must go out of their comfort zone and take responsibility, in front of the people, openly, with at least 51 votes to elect the President of Latvia. And all Latvians will be our highest conscience and control over open actions by Members in such a vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Villums: This proposal is not put to the vote! Fractional Unity Applications.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U57	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U58	Dear Unity! I will remind you: in Soviet times too, there has been a scandal everywhere that there is the best, brightest democracy - open elections. Thank you very much, too... I forgot to say... Līga Kozlovsk and Juris Vectyran. We believe we succeed! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “You will be President? Right?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U59	Member Janis Vucāns took part in the debate. Would you have four minutes? Would it be enough? The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U60	Colleagues! In the debate on the first reading, I said that I have never supported the proposal for an open presidential election so far, but I will vote in favour at first reading to continue this discussion. And indeed during this time, after voting at first reading, I have followed what is said in public space about one or the other option, what is said about the elected president of all the people, and I have tried to find out opinions that really would be acceptable to me, which would be the views of legal experts, national law experts. I was most referred to by Gvido Zemribo, the former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. He said in his interview that when voting in favour of an open election process, members of the Saeima are, by nature, destroying democracy in Latvia as such. His words addressed me, and I tried to go into this material. And the essence is as follows. As Members, as leaders of the people's elections, we have different roles in different situations. When we decide on laws, amendments to them or other laws, we are essentially expressing a political opinion which must be in agreement with the opinion of our majority party. And then the question of whether to see who has voted is relevant: to have a certain force that determines political direction in the country. In the same situation, Parliament also has a number of other functions. One of these functions is the election of the President of Latvia: according to the Constitution, the Latvian Saeima elects the President of Latvia. By electing us as the leaders of the people, the people of Latvia have trusted us, and in this situation each of us has the right to express our opinion by voting on it or another president. But it should not be publicly known, because otherwise it is against the general principles of democracy. That's why I... So if we are talking about this proposal, which has been driven by Mr Nunozole and a few more Members, I will abstain on this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “No Vote!” ) But when we have to vote in favour of the whole draft law, I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U61	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U62	Colleagues! I recall that this only proposal cannot be voted on in accordance with Article 76 of the Satversme. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U63	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” (No 1251/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 81, against - 3, refraining from - 1. (Applause) The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U64	The deadline for submitting proposals - five days, that is, 25 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U65	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of Secretary of the Saeima Gunars Kūtris to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U66	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Inesis Boķis, Boriss Cilevičs, Ivans Klementyevs, Jeļena Lazareva, Renārs Putniņš, Romualds Ražuks, Inguna Silverba and Silvija Šymfa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U67	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U68	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Law of the Pedvāle Art Park”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U69	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We work with the bill “Pedvāle Art Park Law”. The third, final, reading commission has received eight proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U70	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U71	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U73	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U75	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U77	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U79	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U81	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U83	And 8. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U85	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U86	Please call me! Let us vote for support for the third final reading of the draft law on the Pedvāle Art Park Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis. Is Mr. Valains in the hall? There is no rapporteur, so this item on the agenda is being moved and is being treated as the last one. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U87	Good morning, colleagues! We work with amendments to the Law on Public Procurement. These amendments are not technical, they are special because they are submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia and are intended to limit excessively expensive purchases. Nine proposals have been tabled in total, and today we are looking at the draft legislation at last reading, so let us also probably adopt it. The proposal is a proposal from the commission responsible, which provides for the exclusion of the first paragraph of Article 1 of the draft law, and has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U89	2. is a proposal of the committee responsible, which provides that if an open or restricted tender is terminated or terminated because the tenders have been rejected in accordance with Paragraph 11 of Article 41 of this Law, the contract price resulting from negotiations may not exceed any of the following values. And these are the two criteria that the Commission has developed. Thank you also to the Legal Bureau for its involvement! Thus, the first criterion – in open or restricted tender procedures documents must not exceed the contract price indicated by the contracting entity, which is set as a tender eligibility requirement. And the second is 150 per cent of the estimated contract prices in open or restricted procurement documents. In the Commission, this proposal has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U91	3. is a proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and also by Edgars Putra, Member of the Saeima. It provides that information about the applicants is further clarified not only in the Register of Enterprises, but also in a request of a foreign applicant to submit a document confirming the country of registration. In the Commission, this proposal has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U93	4. is a proposal from the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia and Member Edward Smiltens, which states that if the contract price offered by the tenderer exceeds or exceeds 50 per cent of the estimated contract price set by the contracting authority, such procurement should be cancelled. This proposal was evaluated by the Commission and the Commission came to a better legal solution contained in proposals 5 and 2 previously adopted. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U94	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U95	5. - the proposal from the committee responsible, which is this improved compromise. It also lays down criteria that over-costed procurement... In fact, such applicants should be excluded on the basis of two criteria. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U96	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U97	Colleagues, this draft law is really important, because already at the beginning of this year the Association of the Regions of Latvia responded to a series of scandalous purchases, also partly revealing such purchases, where we... Of course, there is much discussion in the Saeima and also in the government about the lack of money - doctors, teachers, other very important needs. And what do we see in return? “The State Roads of Latvia” procurement is opposite to us... There was a scandal at the beginning of this year, where the planned price of 3.5 million, the applicant being rejected by 3.5 million, the applicant being won by 8.5 million. So the cost of five million. This leads to a public scandal. What is the reaction of coalition parties? Nothing. This question is being defaulted. A very negative signal is being sent to society that money is being squandered, but there is no response. Another procurement to VARAM, on which members of the Group of the Regions of Latvia also submitted a request to the Minister. Thank you to two Members of Unity - Mr. Gustovskis and Mr. Astrid Harju - as well as Mr. Brigmanis, who in the Commission, having heard the facts, a real analysis of the situation, realised that this kind of procurement was not acceptable... and partly supported the request by the Commission. It is a pity that this request did not pass away, as the coalition agreed not to support it in the Saeima. And it's also a pity that other colleagues from Unity sent two of their colleagues back then, saying that they were wrong... Let us say, understanding the situation and that they have voted erroneously. This proposal, which has been drafted by the Commission, is based on my previous proposal and provides for an elementary system that will work in the future - that if the contract price exceeds 50 per cent in the course of the procurement... This is a more legally correct set-up... So - 150 per cent of the estimated contract price indicated in the procurement documents... Therefore, if more than this amount is exceeded, such tenderers should be excluded from the procurement procedure. Not only do we exclude, say, artificially reduced prices, dumping prices, but also at the other end we limit... And what will that give us? If the planned purchase for “State Road of Latvia” was 3.5 million, the winner - 8.5... But in this case, the cost cannot exceed 1.7 million, so the state will save... would have saved almost 3.5 million in this case. The planned purchase of VARAM was 1.5 million; then the price, which could still be technically passed, would probably be just a plus 0.7 million. So the total amount is 2.2 million. And in this way, we would immerse six million untapped in the state budget. I can continue in this way with a very large number of examples. There was also a purchase where the repricing was 23 million... Only of these first two, colleagues, are we making 10 million. You can give yourself many examples, where 10 million are crucial and extremely important to help solve problems that are important to people. Consequently, I call for support for this proposal, and indeed for the future, in the next Saeima and in the next government, to be courageous and fight against money laundering, because apathy and doing nothing in such cases allows radical power or populists to occupy your seats. I therefore call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U98	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U99	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, Let me explain the nature of the matter. Mr. Smilten tried to explain here, but, I have to say, the Association of the Regions of Latvia... and Member Smilten had to go over a little with his fourth motion (Dep. A.Bērzins: “Go now!” ), as it provided for any buying-in to be suspended if a tenderer submitted a contract price of more than 50 per cent. This means that anyone who wants to stop a project gives a particularly higher price. And the fourth proposal also provided for this. That's why it was 5. - Commission proposal. This was established by the Commission and implies that anyone who exceeds this price will not be assessed will be excluded from the procurement procedure. And this is a reasonable and normal solution to prevent the squandering of public money. But the original idea was totally unacceptable, in that sense unthinkable, because all public procurement procedures could, for example, be misused. So that I really call for support for the Commission's proposal 5 that solves this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U100	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U101	I can join Mr. Matīss. And thank you to the Office for Legal Affairs and colleagues for finding such a very good, meaningful compromise that really tackles the problem. I call for support for Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U102	Thank you. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U103	6. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Also... It's more technical, it turns off... refers to paragraph 14. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U105	The next, 7th, is also the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra. It also deals with applicants established abroad and requires the customer to submit a document certifying the country of registration. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U107	8 / 8 - the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Mr Eglita, who talks about the dates of entry into force of these articles and who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U109	And the last, 9th, is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary, Eglita, who has received support from the Commission and who is also talking about entry into force.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U111	Colleagues! I think we have done one good job: we have left it for the next political period. I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on public procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on road traffic law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U113	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law Amending the Road Traffic Act (No 1202/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined this draft law for its third reading. A total of four proposals were received. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U115	2. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Rihards Kozlovska, who was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U117	3. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. In part, the Commission was supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U118	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U119	And finally 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U121	Thank you, colleagues, for your support. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U123	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education”. 21 proposals were received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U125	2. - A proposal by Ainir Mežulis. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U126	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U127	3 and 4 are identical...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U128	3 and 4 shall not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U129	So, thank you... 5. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U131	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U133	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U134	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Morozov... About 7. ... About 7. Come on, come on! We are now at 7. So Mr Morozov does not want to debate. Members support proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U135	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U136	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U137	Hello, honorable Bureau! Hello, colleagues! I would remind you that Proposal No 8 is a proposal from the Legal Bureau to exclude Article 17, paragraph 2.5 of the draft law. When the new private school, the Free School of Preili, was opened in 2015 in Preili District, the wife of Aigars Zīmelis, the district member, Inguna Žīķele, from Latvian TV screens told about the principles of operation of the new school. The author added that the school would be financed by parents and sponsors. I think I know who, with the rejection of this proposal, will become the new sponsor of private schools - the taxpayers. The children of local Members who are studying in this private school will certainly appreciate this. Members of the National Alliance, by the way, are also in the coalition... The Society alone defers the school from receiving the status of public benefit organisation. We also have a Member's Indebtor's kindergarten. This, however, has limited liability status, but the company is fully in line with the status of social enterprise. The author of the proposal The debtor, who owns 60 percent of the company, certainly does not see any conflict of interest, because he is blind when looking at such matters. And these are just two publicly known examples. What do we see in the proposal? The debtor proposes to impose an obligation on municipalities to pay for private school expenditure, planning the budget burden of municipalities... increasing the budgetary burden for municipalities. The education reform implemented by the coalition looks like this: to deprive one child of the opportunity to get educated in the home municipality and to re-allocate money to their own business and to specially lobbying private schools. Quite cynical! Here would be work for the Anti-Corruption Office. I call on you to support the proposal from the Legal Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U138	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U139	I will try to make sure that you don't think SAVE is fighting the National Association again; I will tell you what is happening here. It is a pity, of course, that Mr. Debtor is not present in the Chamber. He could now state the substance of his proposal. But I absolutely have no reason not to trust the proposal of the Legal Bureau - Amendment 8 - which is certainly not supported in the Commission, Mr Adamovich, because of the coalition's position. It's very strange that the Law Office... But the law office can't come to talk, I think so. I'm sorry. The legal office would certainly have something to say. I call for support to be given to the proposal by the Legal Bureau - a proposal that is not currently supported - because it also says that the service provider is a public benefit organisation or a social enterprise. Proposal 9 tabled by the Debtor... I hope the Debtor himself will come and tell... The debtor simply proposes to replace the word ‘operator’ by ‘company’... In principle, this is about lobbying. Yes, he has his own kindergartens, I don't want to go into his farm. But this is not some kind of fight from the National Association! This is simply a brutal matter of lobbying. And if that were the case, let us accept, Mr. Neighbouring's proposal, it could also be rejected. Well, as usual, right? But in this case... This is a proposal from the Legal Bureau, and I think Members of the Saeima should trust the Legal Bureau. Please support Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U140	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U141	Dear colleagues, I don't own a kindergarten, I don't own a school, but I care about Latvian children and their parents. The first thing I would like to emphasise is that this proposal does not refer to kindergartens. We are talking only about school, children who have reached school age, and their parents. The second case is that this proposal provides for co-financing for schools with public benefit organisations or social entrepreneurs. And if we are talking more about our education system, we can give a beautiful talk about integrated education, but when a child with reduced mobility, with mental retardation, a child with HIV or a child from a baby’s home goes to a normal school and says, “Take me to school, class!” Don't take him. He doesn't have a chance to be there. These are those schools with smaller classes where there is an opportunity to integrate this type of child. And they deserve co-financing. That is why we are talking about two categories of schools, not about schools where the monthly fee is measured in thousands of euros. Please do not support the proposal of the Legal Bureau. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “Yes, right! Don’t!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U142	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U143	Yeah. Colleagues, I will remind you of this version, which we have voted on at second reading. The provisions of this law do not apply to all private educational establishments or pre-school establishments; only those which have established public welfare organisations, as Mrs Betes has just mentioned. And in this case, these schools do not profit from parental contributions. At present, there are five such in Latvia. And to obtain this status from other private schools or other private schools, they have to undergo quite a long procedure in the State Revenue Service. That is why I am calling for the 8th today not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U144	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 53, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U145	9. - Immant Debtor's proposal. Supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U146	Members want to vote. Do Members want to vote on Amendment 9? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - a proposal made by the debtor Member! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 22, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U147	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal by Ainir Mežulis. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U148	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - MEP Mežulis' proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 26, for - 26, for - 31. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U149	As a result, 11. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U150	Consequently, proposals 11 and 12, as the chairman of the commission says, cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U151	Thank you. 13. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U153	Proposals 14, 15 and 16 are also related to proposals 10, 11 and 12. Proposal 14 - not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U154	Are Members willing to vote? Do Members want to vote on proposal 14? ( The transcripts are: “No! Yes!’ ) (a.k.a. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - MEP Mežulis' proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 29, for - 30. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U155	Consequently, the 15th and 16th proposals are also not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U156	Proposals 15 and 16 - no vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U157	17. - Karl Shadursky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U159	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U161	19. - a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U163	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U165	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U166	The Minister had applied to speak on the 20th motion. The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U167	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! We are on the same vote from the adoption of this law, and I take the opportunity to say a very warm thank you for your support for this bill. This law is extremely important for a number of reasons. First of all, it completes all the regulatory framework so that we can introduce the new standard of education, from pre-school to secondary school, which is extremely important for the quality of our education system. And the other thing I want to sincerely thank you (Interior: “For the proposal, Carl!” ) - that at last, in the centenary of Latvia, we are ready to make an extremely important decision - to set high quality criteria for education at secondary level, which is extremely necessary for the sustainability of our country's development. Thank you. And, of course, I am not calling for this proposal to be put to the vote. I call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U169	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U170	And neither is it possible to vote because proposal 8 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U171	Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, I would also like to thank all those who participated in the discussion of both the General Education Act and the Education Act. We have really prepared this bill for the third reading in the hot and perhaps sharp discussions, and I hope that, two years after the introduction of competence-based content, our children, students, young people and, of course, teachers will benefit first and foremost. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the third, final, reading amendments to the Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U172	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 22, no. The law is passed. Thank you to the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, for his participation in the Saeima sitting and for his participation in the debate. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Preservation and Defence of the Historical Centre of Riga”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Artis Gustovskis. ( The Room Noise)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U173	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, I today report that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conservation and Protection of the Historical Centre of Riga” can be found at third reading. Eight proposals have been received by the Commission as a whole. Although most of them deal with formal nature issues, there were strong discussions. Proposal No 1. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U175	2. - Member Klavin's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U176	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U177	3. - The proposal by Member Percussion. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U178	Incorporated 5. - the Commission's proposal. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U179	4. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U180	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U181	Dear colleagues, Original purpose of the draft law... it had been tabled by individual Members of the Saeima... There was clearly the protection of trees within the historical centre of Riga. This is also reflected in the information available in the public space. I have repeatedly stressed that it is our duty to protect all trees in the historical centre of Riga, not only those that are part of the system of the green zone. The trees that have become self - established deserve protection, but as the years have grown, they have long reached a respectable circumference, sometimes in excess of 30 centimeters. These are not small trees on the roof of an abandoned building, which, according to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, cannot be considered as trees for which a permit is required. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the new version of the amendment has turned this bill into an absurd construction. There are trees that need to be specially protected because they are part of the green zone system, and there are trees that the owner of the death will not have to take any action to plant another tree instead. He will simply be able to pay a small penalty and will be able to expand widely in his building plans, but the tree will be lost. What I propose, as in the wording of the second reading, is to impose an obligation to plant a tree at the place of growth of the dead tree. But realizing that there are situations that do not allow it for technical or biological reasons, the placement of another place would take place according to the instructions of the institution responsible for Riga City Council. This would very well prevent situations where the owner abuses the tree after he has not obtained a permit for felling. Similarly, the version proposed by the Commission grants an unprecedented right to the National Cultural Heritage Administration - to harmonise the planting of new trees in the place of the dead and to identify those trees which are part of the system of the green zone or are especially protected. Each institution has its own specific character, and to grant such rights to an administration which, because of its specific nature, treats trees as part of its cultural heritage, landscape, not as a living urban ornament and urban lungs - that is wrong! Colleagues! I will name a few addresses in the historical center of Riga, where at the moment beautiful trees grow, for which the owners of deaths will not have to worry, because according to this law they do not belong to the system of the green zone. These addresses are Ģertrūdes iela 40, Mednieku iela 9, Sporta iela 2, Zakusalas shoremala 1, Barona iela 107. And finally, Skolas iela 1 - these are trees near the Ministry of Defence, which have just been protected by the Riga City Council's Maintenance Commission. Those who led such a bill will be morally responsible if one of these trees dies. I call on you to support my proposal, as well as the other proposals 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U182	The name of Member Inese Sustrout.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U183	Hello, dear colleagues! This point triggered a great debate in our committee, and last Thursday, even during the parliamentary sitting, we convened an extraordinary sitting to re-examine that point. We discussed with Riga City Construction Board specialists, with trees cutting specialists, with Riga City Council Housing and Environment Department, as well as with the so-called Damja cantor. We have examined very carefully the current version of the Commission, which the Commission has supported. Stepanenko mentioned the need to protect any tree. In fact, we also have to protect those trees that are self - centered on balconies and roofs. Small funerals grow up in such areas, and we do not need to protect them. Therefore, we cannot support the protection of every tree. But for those trees that were named at particular addresses, I think that the bill in the version that it is here and that the commission has supported, protects these trees. It will be controlled by two institutions. We do not need another third body that will control two controlling bodies! I believe that it is perfectly sufficient that Riga City Construction Board and also the National Cultural Heritage Authority do so. These two institutions are fully sufficient to be able to deal with and manage the situation. I call for support for the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U184	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U185	I repeat to Mrs Sustrauta. In accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers regulations on tree felling, it is established: wood must reach a certain diameter - 20 centimeters - so that its felling requires permission, that means - that it should be guarded. Madam President, you've seen a 20 centimetre tree grow on the balcony or on the roof? That's not the case! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “There is! I'm growing up!’ ) That's why...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U186	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U187	None. ( Interface: ‘ Is it supported by the Commission? ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U188	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 17, for - 34. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U189	5. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U191	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U193	7. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U194	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U195	I call for support for proposals 7 and 8, which are interrelated. The 7th proposal provides that the Council of Riga City Council's Maintenance Commission should be a member of this council, because we are now beginning to talk about the protection of trees. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U196	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 37, for - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U197	And 8. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U198	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 34, for - 18. The proposal is not supported. The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Preservation and Defence of the Historical Centre of Riga” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 20, for - 1. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Protection Bureau”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U199	Good morning, colleagues! Second reading, no proposals. There have also been more technical issues in previous readings. Please support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U200	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Protection Office” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U201	September 25th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U202	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year. On the agenda - Draft law on amendments to the Schengen Information System Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Zenta Tretjaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U203	Highly honored Presidium! Dear Members, Taking into account the practical necessity and usefulness of the law, the draft law provides for supplementing the law with the right to adopt a decision on the inclusion of a report into the system for missing persons sought to establish their location and missing persons sought for temporary protection in order to prevent threats. The draft law provides to supplement the law with a rule that the report system may include also if the Latvian database includes a record of the person being sought to ensure the use of a security measure related to deprivation of liberty or the execution of a criminal penalty, but there is no reason to request detention for the purpose of extradition. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, the issue of preventing theft of tractors and recovering the stolen is still topical in Latvia. Currently, according to Section 14, Paragraph Two of the Law, the tolerance to the system lies with the Road Safety Directorate, but does not exist with the State Technical Supervision Agency. Consequently, the registration of tractors imported from abroad and their trailers does not verify whether they have been reported in a system in which the Member States of the European Union declare their search vehicles from 9 April 2013. In the absence of such checks, organised crime has the opportunity to market a tractor and its trailer stolen in another Member State. Accordingly, the draft law is supplemented by a provision on the State Technical Supervision Agency as the data subject of the Schengen Information System. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined and supported the draft law at its meeting on 11 September this year. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U204	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Schengen Information System Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U205	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 25 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U206	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U207	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia is rapidly developing, and the system of basic training courses of the Land Guard has changed fundamentally. There is a need for more and more landguards to be involved in collective training and to balance these needs with the interests of employers. The norms of the law in these amendments are necessary in order to increase the readiness of the battle and enable efficient use of resources by attracting all necessary specialists, as well as once a year all 8,000 landguards to gather together in training. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” aims to supplement and clarify the regulation included in the Law on the Landguard of the Republic of Latvia by establishing, first, that the task of the Landguard of the Republic of Latvia is to provide support to information technology security incident prevention institutions. Secondly, that the employer, once in the course of a calendar year, exempts the employees involved in collective training of landguards from the performance of their duties, maintaining their position for him or her up to five working days, and pays compensation for this period in accordance with the regulation of Section 74, Part One, point 10 of the Labour Law. According to the information provided by the Landkreis Emsland, the Landkreis is the owner of the Landkreis Emsland and the Landkreis is the owner of the Landkreis Emsland, and the Landkreis is the owner of the Landkreis Emsland and the Landkreis is the owner of the Landkreis Emsland and the Landkreis is the owner of the Landkreis Emsland. The draft law also contains technical amendments. This draft law is included in the package with amendments to the Labour Law, which regulates the actions of employers and the fact that the Latvian National Armed Forces compensates the employer for the remuneration it has paid for the period of study. The procedure by which the National Armed Forces compensate the compensation paid to the employee, as well as the amount of compensation, will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers and will be set at 50 euros per day. This draft law is still to be considered by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, but it is endorsed by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption at its meeting on 11 September. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U208	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U209	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 30 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U210	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 30 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U211	Dear colleagues, The military service law is linked to the Labour Law, which we see in the package, and also to some extent to the draft law just presented by Veiko Spolitis. The purpose of these amendments is to improve cooperation between the employer and the employees as much as possible by giving the employer the opportunity to pay a staff member called in military training as a spare soldier. Of course, the purpose of the draft law is to make it clear that the employer is obliged to release the spare soldier when he is called upon to learn. And that is very important. At the same time, the law also provides for some support for the employer. It should be noted that the training time of a spare soldier who is trained in military training is longer than that of a military guard. At the same time, the draft law also includes technical improvements related to the state of health of the soldier. On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U212	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U213	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 30 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U214	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 30 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U215	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law has been drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers and submitted to us for consideration at the Saeima. The draft law provides for the introduction of a new concept of "money market fund". Money Market Fund - an investment fund to which the requirements laid down in the relevant Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council apply. In the draft law, we found some inaccuracy that we will try to prevent for the second reading. First of all, the draft law indicates a different amount of fines: in the draft law - 14 000 euros (the first threshold), and in the annotation - 14 200 euros. These amounts must be equalised. And, secondly, the date of entry into force of the law is indicated on July 21, 2018. This is, of course, something that we need to amend at second reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U216	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U217	October 1st.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U218	Thank you. Proposals are due by 1 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U219	This draft law is largely similar to the previous one, which will have to be clarified to the second reading, but I now call on the Commission to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U220	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Investment Management Companies"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U221	October 1st.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U222	Thank you. Proposals are due by 1 October of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U223	Dear colleagues, The Commission has received amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions drawn up by the Ministry of Finance. The aim of the law is to strengthen the financial system of Latvia and promote its long-term sustainable development in order to test compliance of persons seeking to work and working in credit institutions with their job responsibilities and to ensure public confidence in the financial sector, as well as to reduce the risks that unfair employees are involved in the activities of credit institutions. At the same time, the draft law includes a provision prohibiting a shareholder of a credit institution, a natural person with a direct or indirect substantial interest, from being a member of the board of the credit institution, the chairman of the board or the senior management of the credit institution. The law is foreseen to enter into force on the day following its publication. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U224	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U225	October 1, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U226	Thank you. Proposals are due by 1 October of this year. On the agenda: Draft law on amendments to the electoral law of the European Parliament, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U227	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! When preparing the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament” for the second reading, the National Administration and Municipal Commission has not received any proposal. I therefore ask for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U228	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U229	Let us wait until 25 September for the proposals for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U230	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U231	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” promoted by the Cabinet of Ministers in preparation for its first reading. The aim of this draft law is to improve the regulation of the tax administration process in the field of the digital economy, thus helping the State Revenue Service to better combat tax evasion in the digital economy. The draft law aims to improve the access of the State Revenue Service to information related to economic activity in the field of the digital economy, as well as to improve the regulation on domain name shutdown in relation to the failure to provide certain types of information to the State Revenue Service. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined this draft law, supported it and asked the Saeima to support it as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U232	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 1317/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U233	October 9, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U234	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U235	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Excise Tax”. This provides for clarification of the authorisation of the Cabinet of Ministers given in the minutes of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers. It also provides for clarification of several norms of law in order to improve regulatory enactments and reduce administrative burden for economic operators. The draft law mainly determines the handling of security certificates. This draft law has been examined and supported by the Commission. I also call on the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U236	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U237	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U238	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 26 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U239	The Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees’ at second reading (No 1247/Lp12). 18 proposals have been received. The proposal was tabled by Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U241	The proposal was submitted by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U243	The proposal was submitted by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U245	The proposal was submitted by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U247	Proposal No 5 tabled by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U249	Proposal No 6 tabled by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U251	Proposal No 7. tabled by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U253	Proposal No 8. tabled by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U255	Proposal No 9. tabled by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U257	Proposal No 10 was submitted by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U259	The proposal was submitted by Minister of Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U261	Proposal No 12. tabled by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U263	Proposal No 13. tabled by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U265	The proposal was submitted by Minister of Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U267	15.The proposal was submitted by the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U269	The proposal was submitted by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U271	The proposal was submitted by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U273	18.The proposal was submitted by Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U275	Please support the draft law at second reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U276	December 9th of this year?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U277	I'm sorry, October 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U278	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 9 October this year. On the agenda - draft law on alarm actions, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Astrid Harju.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U279	Dear Saeima! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined and prepared for the second reading the draft law “Onset Law”. Before examining all 42 proposals, I would like to say that, in our view, those who participated in the working group - both responsible experts from the non-governmental sector, trade unions and representatives of ministries - and the Commission in general believes that this is a law for changing the attitude of society in order to strengthen the suspension of processes that are illegal and detrimental to society and the state. The proposal is received from Member Lolitas Čigāne. This has been partly supported. And 2. - from the Legal Office. This has also been partly supported. And both proposals are included 3. - in the proposal of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government, which refers to the clarification of the term "competent institution". And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U280	Proposal No 1 - Members agree. Proposal No 2 - Members agree. The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U281	Proposal No 4 has been received from Member Lolita Chiganė and has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U282	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U283	5. is the proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. It is supported and related to the previous proposal - 4, when within the framework of the law the term relating to the performance of duties is extended.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U285	6. is the proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, the purpose of the law has been supported and clarified.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U287	7. is a proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U289	8. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U291	9. is the proposal of the Legal Office. And it is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U293	10. is a proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U295	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. And it is supported by the inclusion of proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U296	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U297	12. - The proposal from Member Alexey Loskutov. It has been supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U298	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U299	13. is a proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. This includes both past and has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U301	14. is a proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U303	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, and it has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U305	16. - The proposal from the Legal Office, and it has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U307	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U309	18. is the proposal from Member Lolita Chigan. Partially supported by the inclusion of proposal 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U310	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U311	19. is the proposal from Member Aleksey Loskutov. This has also been partly supported by including 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U312	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U313	20. is the proposal from Member Aleksey Loskutov. Partially supported, including 21. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U314	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U315	21. is a proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The inclusion of the above-mentioned proposals 18 and 20 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U317	22. is a proposal of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U319	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U321	24. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U323	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, including 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U324	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U325	26. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U327	27. - Mrs. Lolita Chiganne's proposal, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U328	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U329	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U331	29. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U333	30. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U335	31. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U337	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Aid included in 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U338	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U339	33. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U340	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U341	34. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U343	35. - The proposal from Member Alexey Loskutov. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U345	36. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U347	37. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U349	38. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U350	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U351	39. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U352	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U353	40. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U355	41. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U357	And the final one is 42. - the Commission's proposal for the entry into force of the law. It provides that the law shall enter into force on 1 May 2019, which is also the day of solidarity... And it's a common denominator with this draft law text...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U359	The request is to support the second reading of the draft law “Warning Law”.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U360	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Warning Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - no, for - 1. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U361	The deadline for the submission of proposals shall be five days - by 25 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U362	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U363	Once again, thank you to the working group.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U364	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U365	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We are currently considering the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use and fact of cooperation of individuals with the detection of the KGB”” at second reading. Well, this draft law can be referred to safely as the law on opening cheque bags. This law is not an example of good law. And neither will this law bring good. But it has to be accepted (Interfaces.) , because you can't make one law for more than a quarter of a century. And that's why... After consulting the head of the commission... I think we need a little insight into this law... in the course of the adoption of this draft law, because the Saeima has attached its hand to this draft law by both 5, 8, 11 and 12. 5th Saeima. The rumors about the fact that there are a number of politicians and majorities in Czech bags began to wander during the Supreme Council, and the first post-war Saeima, fifth by number, in response to these rumours, set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry, which took place on 7 July 1993. The following was reported by the Saeima by this committee of inquiry. This Commission in its final report... This commission, by the way, only 22 days existed... In its report, the Commission wrote the following: “The Parliamentary Investigation Commission also notes that there is insufficient legal regulation to deal with KGB materials. This situation creates biased opportunities and tensions in society and should therefore be avoided as soon as possible." In response to this, a year later, on 19 May 1994, this law was passed, which we will now correct. The 8th Saeima... 6th and 7th Saeima had no special activity and progress, but 8th Saeima in 2004 and 2006 worked very actively on amendments to open the bags. 8. The Saeima had examined the draft law in up to three readings (the Head of the sitting knocked out with a hammer.) and decided to make the cheque bags public, but it all ended up in such a way that the bags were not worth the money. President Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga of the Republic of Latvia exercised his right of veto and, in essence, the Saeima returned this draft law three times, which intended to open the bags. In 2004, the President of Latvia explained his veto by the fact that the legislator has not been able to justify and prove how the disclosure of information from the KGB repeats will affect people whose names are mentioned therein. In 2006, Vaira Vike-Freiberga once again says that the opening of so-called cheque bags is late. It's 2018! So in 2006 she said (I will quote precisely): “The benefit of publishing Czech bags would have been that such a decision would have been reached at the beginning of the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Latvia, applying the lustration and allowing former KGB employees to apply voluntarily so that their names would not be made public.” The bags are deep bombs, and that's the spirit... So that's when the guy just came! He followed Zatler's order No.2, the crisis, and only the 11th Saeima resumed work on this task. What the 11th Saeima did was basically put the question of opening these check bags on our shoulders. The law was amended accordingly, from political evaluation to scientific evaluation, once again a single Czech bag commission was created - this time the government... And here we are in the 12th Saeima... The Commission created... In fact, the previous Saeima finished its work with beautiful books, conferences, but no serious final report was submitted on 31 May. And this final report (if it can be considered later) said, “Well open!” And no comments! We're... What are we really discussing today? So nature, finances. First of all, on the substance. On August 26, 1991, by decision of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia, the activities of the KGB were terminated in Latvia, and a significant part of the Latvian Czech archives came to the State Archives. Another part of the Czech archives came to other institutions. At the moment, it is not a unified, indivisible whole, but it will become that if we get this law through three readings and Raimonds Vejonis will not repeat the heroic work of Vaira Vike-Freiberga with veto. Documents will become the national heritage of Latvia, will be stored forever in a unified, indistinguishable total, and everyone will be able to get acquainted with them in accordance with the rules of the archive. Secondly, on finance. The Ministry of Finance has accepted the replacement of the source of financial resources, and the Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft order of the Cabinet of Ministers on the reallocation of appropriations in 2018, already this year providing for the reallocation of funding from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development budget to the budget of the Ministry of Justice in the amount of 90 thousand euros, as well as to the budget of the Ministry of Culture in the amount of 47 thousand euros. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Let’s open! Ringold, let's go!" ) As you can see, these are all ministries managed by the National Alliance, which still received this money for opening cheque bags. And finally. Before I start voting in favour of the bill, I would like to thank Alexander Kirštein in particular. I can't talk to the hall, but Alexander, raise his hand... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš is a better friend.) Yes, Alexander Kirštein, behind whom Linard Muciņš stood, who gave the right advice... And, of course, a lot of work has also been done in this regard, Ritvars Jansons. So... Let's get started! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U366	Proposal No 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U367	Proposal No 1. Supported by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U369	2. There is also a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U371	3. there is a proposal from Member Alexander Kirštein, which has been partly supported and already included 2. - the previous one - in the proposal that we have supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U372	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U373	Hello, brothers and sisters! I would like to have a salty opposition to Mr Kirštein about these attempts to get the Communists in here. First of all, if we're talking about cheque bags, I already said... They are not stunts, it is an excellent instrument that manipulates society, placed at the place of those who do not understand and do not understand. Secondly, this is an instrument that shows history. We have organised Awakening, accession to the European Union and NATO. And I'm asking you to know that the KGB officers... The main thing they were taught in schools is to manipulate people, to manipulate society. They are experienced, good mind manipulators. And it's not... And according to Eric Jameson, the activist of that time, the most active and inspiring people in the period of Awake were those who all knew of: it is an officer of the KGB. It's about an instrument that manipulates the public at this point. And that's all! And why do we need to weep first? This instrument is still alive and is being used. I have evidence of this. There is evidence of the impact of Ingus Bērziņš, the main editor of Delfi. I have evidence of some draft laws that have passed through here... where it only affects. And what's the unpleasant thing? Dear Members, in my opinion, our “dog-like” has sat down by these so-called grey forces, which are very drawn to the fact that... these grey forces are controlled by these Czech bags. Why do I say that? And why are such evidences? These troll farms, working on a “dog-like way”, this nice guy who did not allow me to enter the Saeima building today... with a visible “dog method” representation... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Aaaa!” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “Doctors!” ) That, in my opinion... This is most frightening to me, because these citizens, who once controlled and are now controlling this ‘dog method’, are well trained to work with an extreme youth. And at this moment, I think a special group of extreme young people is maintained - linč court team. If we don't understand here, these linger court guys will start to run out. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “We can make a proposal?” ) Next. For the Communists. Dear friends, I have an invitation to be aware... Don't pull the Communists in here, Mr. Kirstein! Let’s not say, “Be a thief!” The only person who controlled the KGB is the company there, up there, Secretary General. And the KGB were those who were watching the Communists behaved here as they needed, not the Communists under their control. You don't have to get in here! I remember very well when our school Communist Līga Kolneja came and said that the People's Front and Cooperatives should be established. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “Mr. Mūrniece!” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “Clap with a hammer!” ) I very well remember this Communist Līga Kolnei, who was a clear, good man who really wanted to be good for his people. And I believe that the young Communists of that time really wanted to be good for their homeland. What else would I like to say about this instrument and about these texts? Why not open the door or not? These people went to work, knowing well that it was a contract with Mephistofel. These people were very good... all the benefits of that time - cars, apartments, crafts. And mostly it was: “You give us information, and we support you.” This principle has remained here today. These grey forces work on its principle (so we went through one bill here): “You worked with us, and we will help you through one bill.” That's what I've already said in my speeches. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “You have accepted a wife’s job in the Saeima! What are you talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, “ What am I talking about? I'd like to say... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What are you talking about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U374	Don't bother the debate!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U375	My mother suffered all her life...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U376	Please do not interfere with the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U377	... from being an ejected, arrested daughter. And we are now talking about whether we can open these check bags or not! Who will apologize to my mother, forgive me? It's a big request for me. We don't take it long! Let's open those check bags!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U378	Dear colleagues, Before we continue the debate, I would like to remind you that this proposal is not a vote, but of course it is possible to debate it. ( Milestones.) Name to Member Ringold Balodim. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Mr. Baloža! No!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U379	Hello, colleagues! I'll be quite brief. While we are talking here, people are making money at the expense of our groaning. Lato Lapsa has already published a phone book that we... Let us now determine at second reading that it will be published. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Now you are making him money!” ) In addition to publication of the book “Vara” by Indrikis Latvietis (there is also a set of Lapsa), where Arturs Laimiņš... And there too, you can understand, presidents... and so on. Colleagues, vote, and peace! Well, we don't pull around, we don't make the theater! Waldle, too, well! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Let’s do it!” ) Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U380	I closed the debate. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? It's short, business.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U381	Let's vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U382	We won't vote anyway. This proposal cannot be put to the vote. (Applause) The next item is the proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U383	The second reading will be... 4. is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U385	5. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U387	6. There is also a proposal from the Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U388	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U389	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Members! In support of this proposal as to its substance, I would call for both this and a few more proposals to be removed from the third reading from unnecessary ideological and moralising pianos. If we ask why we have been failing to pass this law for 27 years, then one reason is that we are making a lot of ideological things about this law and then unable to deal with it. And those who may think they're afraid of objecting to something. Because how I'm going to defend something here for the check! Specific proposal 6: Instead of saying: The Latvian National Archive publishes such documents and documents on its website... All ahead, let's start listing things that are already in the aim of the law, and there they have to be. And if it is not accurate, then it must be added to the aim of the law, not restated - the consequences of totalitarian regime and overcoming it... To condemn the crime against humanity... prevent the recurrence of totalitarianism... and so on, and so on. You will say that it's never too much to repeat it. Now I will answer - let us add to the third reading so that Members can have something to show, especially during the pre-elections, then that will also be one of the objectives of this law. The same is true in proposal 7, if we look further, and also in proposal 10. - Mr Kiršteina's proposal. For the purposes of scientific or historical research, for academic, artistic, journalism and for the benefit of society as a whole... Oh, of course! With this, we're just going to add... I'll say that, well, beam out those check bags! We also need all kinds of researchers and artists to start dancing over them. If I used to be absolutely sure that I needed comments on those things and academic studies, then after what has happened now, I'll say, protect God, the more crazy the research! Ber is getting out faster and very pragmatically to the end with this bill and law, not now in constant comments! I would say that the most desperate people on this issue are those who may have suffered the least from a check, which the check has not even noticed at all. Either they were not adults, or they were really lower than the grass at that time. And more. If you don't have a check in your case, my recommendation would be: first close your mouth, then open your ears and eyes, open your mind, think, and then it will be clear if you need to talk about it further or not. People who have suffered from the check, who have been tracked, are simply another issue. But now I am calling for these issues to be dealt with more pragmatically. Why am I talking about the third reading that should now? Because... If I'm going to go to the third reading... Remember this! But if I have not spoken before, then the political groups will have already decided and then the decisions of the political groups will not be able to change here in the course of the sitting. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U390	Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the debate, I would like to say: the Members of the Parliament, Abu Meri, Dzintars, Kaimiņš, Brigmanis and the Upenieks are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the entire agenda is examined. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Please call us! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's against - 9, it's not. Decision adopted. The sitting of the Saeima will be held without interruption. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U391	What Ilmārs Latkovskis said is, of course, worthy of our applause, it sounded beautiful: “We don’t write foolishness!” But there's a question of legal technique. You see, in fact, we have allowed very few laws to record the preamble. This is, for example, the Animal Protection Act... There's a preamble. In the Constitution, too, there is now a preamble. And basically, this law must show that there is a public interest in these bags, because otherwise the General Data Protection Regulation can be used to court, let us say, Agent Hall, sitting between us last week... Mr Ulmes received his Member's mandate, despite opposition from the National Union. He can come to court; he can vote as he wishes, but he can come to court against us, and then we will have to pay large sums of money. So here in the law it is recorded in the law - this interest. And although it is true what Ilmar says, perhaps for the third reading we can still, if the Legal Office is allowed, make one preamble where we describe this interest in a comprehensive way, because interest must be; just care about personal data should not be allowed. But those stunts who stuched about our fellow citizens... Well, there must be an interest in the country and an interest in society as a whole - finally to deal with it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Golden words, Ringold!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U392	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U393	Please arrive at these proposals rationally! You can talk a lot and a lot about the KGB evil and other things, but let's talk specifically about this - the 6th proposal! The Commission formulated this objective in its proposal 6 as part four... There is a unique situation. It is about people’s names in documents. They are freely available to any Latvian citizen, who goes to the archive and takes a look at these documents. This is therefore an unstandard situation. This is not the usual procedure laid down in the Archives Act. And in order to respect data protection, as also required by the General Data Protection Regulation, to which we joined in May, it is necessary to have such a preamble which determines why the public needs to know this data. Consequently, if Members consider... Of course, it can be even better supplemented... And I fully agree that the constitutional rule should be supplemented... and I have already proposed... Then we do certain things, but there must be an objective why personal data is both publicly available in the archives and published. Therefore, please support Amendment 6!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U394	The name of Member Arvīds Ulme. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Arvid, tell the truth!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U395	Hello, Members! I Did not really want to talk about this matter. — Dep. A.Kimiņš, dep. I. Laizāne and others: “Do not talk!” ), but so (interim.) Mr. Baloža has everything... First of all, for those Czech bag shakers who have been there for years and who spend their precious time on this matter, I would like to remind you that the repeater... Vilnis Edvins Bresis, who was the Chairman of the Council of Ministers at the time, under which the KGB was also subordinate, reported and repeated several times that the KGB agents had been exported several months before the KGB allowed us to enter. We weren't, we... I was a member of the Supreme Council at that time; I would like to remind you that it was not an armed revolution. We got in the checkhouse when they wanted to, and they left what they wanted to leave. And they were not of some kindergarten, a foolish house; and they knew what they were doing, and why they left exactly what they left. The real ones who really reported and in some way did harm to certain individuals - they are standing in the Kremlin. And maybe there's... If, for example, we do not find a Baloža card in those check bags, then it is very likely that it is in the Kremlin under the cover word “Stukačs”. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. A.Bērzins: “Aha! Yes!’ ) A very big chance... Undoubtedly, he can go to court and ask the Kremlin to betray him a certificate that he is not there. But in general, I'd like to say... Well, as we look to the public at the expense of some hystericals, pet citizens and people of reverence, with years of such... With our abandoned bones and pretending to be a terrible asset. The most valuable thing would be to burn them on the Dome Square, and peace! And then there would really be peace in society. Yeah, what's going on with these check bags? They're pulled out... repeat as if everything they want, and pull out about the people they want. They're! They're! Also from the National Association... And they suddenly publish the press about those who interfere with someone. The first victim was our Foreign Minister, George Andrejev. Why should I go... Using a landfill of Zvārde military aviation training goals, where the Soviet army trained in shooting bombs on graves... why the Czech officer came to me and said: “If you bring your informals into that landfill, we will do to you the way we did to Casimir Prunskienė.” Because they use these bags, and you've sticked to them (and some even stuck there... with all the head and legs), and now we're playing here... I am not at all taking part in this event and will, of course, vote against this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U396	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U397	I have an even more rational offer... No, I admire the courage of this KGB rapporteurs here in 2018 to climb the platform and now tell... I'll tell you what it will be. It will be that we will change the electoral law of the Saeima and no longer will the KGB stuscants be able to participate in the Saeima elections at all. We will change the Law on Municipal Elections (Dep. L. Cigan: “What is “We”?” ) and will also not be able to participate in this municipal election process. This is a very important thing, because in 2018, there is still talk from this platform about when, whether or not it is necessary to open cheque bags at all. I have a question for a former... I don't know... Mr. Ulmes, first working day for you, huh? Why did you withdraw your claim from the court if you were not already the rapporteur? That is a rhetorical question that I do not need to come up with and answer, because the question has already been encoded. Please support all the proposals that have been supported by the Commission in this legislative package on opening cheque bags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U398	Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U399	Augusts Brigmanis said at last sitting of the Saeima regarding the National Association: "What is the shame of calling Mr Ulmes a Czechist?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ Well, somehow it could have been understood... “ He’s very good. And thanks to him and perhaps others like him, Latvia is an independent state.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Ulme intermediates.) Ulme himself, in response to his possible cooperation with the KGB, made a genius phrase (I would say very laconic): “How can I be an agent if I wasn’t like that?” Mr. Ulmes, by the way, is the commemoration mark of a member of the barricades of 1991, as well as the Order of the Fifth and Third Class Three Stars... Come on! We keep going in the same spirit - open the bags... And I think there will be nothing else. The neighbourhood expects that all will be banned. I don't think so. I think it's simple. (See the box below.) ... that just there's going to be a thing that... I don't know, but I think the Order of Three Stars is a number of people in those bags. And like Ulme, they will say, “How can we have been agents if we weren’t?” And the prodigal man like Augusts Brigmanis will say about them: “How is there no shame to call the stuccos a stucco?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. They are very good, and thanks to some of them Latvia is an independent country.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U400	Name to Member Carl Sergeant. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U401	Let us be consistent! We all know that the Czech was led and controlled by the Communist Party of the USSR. We all know that. I would like to remind you that Minister Dzintars Rasnačs, who joined the Communist Party in 1988 - a year after Arvīds Ulme established an Environmental Protection Club, had already organised the first demonstrations, myths and popular reflections in full swing. So, as Mr. Neighbours says, start with yourself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U402	I closed the debate. Is the Commission's opinion... Is that so? Do Members want to vote on Amendment 6? Mr Latkovsky, are you asking for a vote? No, no. The Members therefore support proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U403	The 7th proposal is also from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs and has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U404	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U405	So there are 34 Communists in the Saeima. One is Mr. Buikis; there is a Communist in the National Union. Yeah, right, Rasnacz. Yeah, there's a Communist, yeah. Brigman is a Communist. Mr. Woods... Mr. Woods, you're also a Communist, right?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U406	Mr. Neighbours, speak on the proposal. Proposal No 7 is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U407	If we count the Communists, then the Communist... There are more Communists in the ZZS than there are in the world. Do you understand? That is a very important thing.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U408	Documents to be published and deadlines for publication.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U409	So... Lock me out of the microphone! So simply if we talk about Communists, then there's 34th in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U410	Talk about the proposal, Mr. Neighbours.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U411	And there's still Reir in the Unity, in the Cabinet of Ministers. Here we live in that country. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Noise. Depp. V.Spolitis: ‘... no one! No one on his own! Be consistent!” ) Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U412	I closed the debate. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Colleagues, I call for the proposals to be discussed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U413	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to emphasise that the 7th proposal is very, very important. And we broke the biggest slices in the Commission right around this proposal. Here is a list that will then be seen. So I would ask for support for Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U414	Members support proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U415	Proposal No 8 is the proposal by Mr Kirštein to exclude Article 9 and it is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U417	The 9th proposal is again Mr Kirštein's proposal. And the Commission is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U418	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U419	Dear President, Honourable Members! This proposal is for work to be continued at the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers (Interpoint.) an interdisciplinary panel. That's not what this one is saying. Why? I think that the present commission, which has finished its work, has irritated many. Firstly, it is like a dart in the eyes, because it was found that from 380 protests of agents submitted to the courts, only 10... was admitted that they had been agents, but the others had not proven this cooperation. However, while the Commission was working on it, it became clear that these non-existent agents had very diligently written reports to the State Security Committee. Second, the four volumes prepared by the commission can read unpleasant things about us. It's not about a certain person there's a small rapporteur, but about society as such. It's a public mirror. The Commission has carried out a very detailed examination of the State Security Committee's subsegments. It's not here... Whereas Mr. Ulmes... talk about individual people. The task of the Commission, which I believe it did, was to explore how Intourists work, how Peace Defence Committee works, how the so-called Committee on Cultural Relations, Academy of Sciences, religious organisations work... and without illusions. Because if the commission finds a document that says that nobody could contact foreigners from the Academy of Sciences if he was not a KGB agent, much becomes understandable. And many people don't like it. Then the next idea appears that the commission is not necessary, because it has been unprofessional. I am looking at the progress made in an existing commission - it says that 13 of the 25 members of this commission have been doctors of history and other sciences. Several dozen experts and scholarships, lawyers and historians as attracted people. What is the main point, then, why should this or another commission continue? The Commission published, i.e. recommended full secrecy of the KGB documents, public disclosure in the National Archives of Latvia, in accordance with the principle of provenance of the archives for science. ‘ Provenance’s Latin source is a separate organisation or person related to documents. All of them must be kept together. There was quite a great deal of SAB resistance to both card research and the idea that these documents could be split up. So one of the principles of the archive is not to modify or edit documents, all of which must be kept together. In January this year, as indicated in the report, four fifths, or 82 percent of Latvian citizens, who had a specific opinion on the KGB documents, said that they wanted publication, and 45 percent thought that the documents should be disclosed immediately, without special comments. So the documents are being opened, but the commission could work. If we haven't yet discovered all the documents about World War II in 70 years... about Hess, the British people have secreted for another 20 years... I don't think this and maybe the next 10 commissions in 20 years will open up everything. One more thing. The SAB’s premises hold LDC documents, of which a large part have been examined on a sample basis, also provide information on other aspects of public interest activities. For various LSSR residents, cultural and scientific employees, trips abroad. On the tasks assigned by the cheque to be performed abroad, on the LSSR KGB lists with the Central Unit of the USSR State Security Committee in Moscow, for example, to receive instructions and sanctions for spying measures. More information about these and other areas of activities and activities of the KGB, which could be of interest not only to politicians but also to members of the public, can be found in the 2828-page review, which includes 75 studies, 55 of which have been published. And the last one. I would like to see this proposal, together with my proposal - 16, which is even more extensive - on the creation of an Institute of Historical Memory. That's why I thought... when discussing with members of the commission that... I have to remove this proposal, and I call on everyone to support Amendment 16, which is broader and, like other countries, to create... invite the Cabinet to set up this historical memory institute. And I call on everyone to vote in favour of my 16th motion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U420	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U421	On behalf of the Commission, I can add that the Commission discussed... I need or I don't need to leave this commission... but it will be a question for the next government. Although many good works have been done by this commission, they have also discredited themselves with delays, high money costs and so on. That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U422	Next, proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U423	10. and Alexander Kirštein's proposal. It is partly supported and included in our 6th support. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U424	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U425	11. - Alexander Kirstein's proposal. This is also partly supported and included 7. - in the committee's proposal, on which we have already voted.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U426	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U427	12. - Alexander Kirstein's proposal. And it is also partly supported, included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U428	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U429	13. - Alexander Kirstein's proposal. Partly supported and included in the above-mentioned proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U430	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U431	Proposal No 14. The same thing again: it has been tabled by Kirštein, and it has also been partly supported, incorporated 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U432	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U433	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U434	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U435	Finally, Amendment 16. It was also presented by Alexander Kirštein and has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U436	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U437	Dear President, Honourable Members! To continue this work, which has been started, and maybe to expand... I understand, of course, that this is already a task for the next Saeima, but we can include it in this law and vote on it and for another third reading. However, I would like to show you... if the commission has prepared such four volumes - four, yes, neat! - Where, as I said, various subscribing organisations have been studied, other institutions that have cooperated, and so on... But there's one main thing. Cards like these - they actually don't say anything. It's the USSR document. Well, man has signed, he could be there, he could not report anything... But why does the commission or this historical memory institute have to work? These reports, which are reports, should also be examined in the Delta database. And knowing about the time or about the organization that's known there, and putting it together with the log and with cards, will prevent what... It is wrong to say here, Mr Ulmes, that something is inserted, because nothing can be inserted because there is a log. And so that all of this can be checked, you have to work further for this commission or an updated commission... or this historical memory institute. And these four volumes, as I said... The first is “Control and repression of the totalitarian society”. The second volume, prepared by our Member, Ritvars Jansons, is "the operation of the security authorities of the LSSR ( 1944-1956)". So all those agents... the main ones that killed the partisans... It's such a big subject! And you see that every volume... can work for dozens of scientists... I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. At the third reading, if someone has something better, we can discuss and vote in the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U438	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U439	It's not about having no memory center, but... Well, this commission has discredited itself. I didn't want to talk about it, Alexander, but you started. They're eternal knuckles between the Ministry of Justice... In the end, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Constitutional Protection Bureau were intercepted in the bitch. This commission - call it what you want - either to re-start or to create a new one. I think this is a question for the next government. And that will, of course, depend on the coalition... if they don't, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U440	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U441	On behalf of the Commission, I can only say what I said on my own behalf - that we debated it and left it to the next government. And we don't write anything that should be changed later if the government were in other views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U442	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 35, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U443	And the 17th proposal is a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U444	Members are in favour. And there is also proposal 18. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U445	The 18th proposal is also Mr Kirštein's proposal and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U447	That's all. The deadline for submitting proposals can be said? ( Independence: “We must vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U448	We have to vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U449	We are, of course, voting in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U450	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the preservation, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and the fact of cooperation of persons with the detection of the KGB”” (Interface: “SAVE, vote!” ) support for second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U451	The deadline for the third reading of the proposals, so that we can now do our homework, is five days - 25 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U452	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U453	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” (No 1307/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft legislation at first reading and supported it. The purpose of the draft law is to clarify the conditions for changing the category of land use (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) Depending on the quality of the land, several land units located on the coastal land part of the sea are transferred to the local government, as well as the issues regarding the ownership of the land units transferred to the reserve land fund after their assessment... on jurisdiction in the country, and the draft law is supplemented with a new procedure for monitoring soil in agricultural and forestry land. The draft law provides for several technical amendments, specifying the time limits for drafting regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. As I have already mentioned, this draft law was approved by the Commission at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I also call on you, colleagues, to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U454	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Land Management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U455	Thank you, colleagues. Let us wait until 25 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U456	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 September this year. On the agenda - draft law on animal breeding and breeding, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U457	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law on Animal Breeding and Breeding (No. 1284/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these draft laws at second reading. A total of 35 proposals were received. I'm trying to get out of here. 1. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U459	Two more. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U461	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U462	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U463	4. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U464	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U465	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U467	6. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U469	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U471	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U473	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U475	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U476	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U477	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U479	Also 12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U481	13. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U483	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U484	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U485	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U487	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U489	17 as well. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U490	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U491	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U492	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U493	The same is true of the 19th century. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U494	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U495	As well as 20. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U496	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U497	Also 21. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U498	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U499	And like 22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U500	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U501	And finally 23. - the Minister for Agriculture (Sitting Manager knocked down with hammer.) John Duklav's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U503	24. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U505	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U506	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U507	26. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau was supported by proposal 30.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U508	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U509	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U510	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U511	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U512	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U513	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U514	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U515	30. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U517	31. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U519	32. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U521	33. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U523	34. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U525	35. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U527	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call on my fellow Members to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U528	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on animal breeding and breeding. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U529	Thank you. Let us wait until 25 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U530	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U531	Colleagues! The Commission has examined the amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees. The fundamental issue of these amendments is a radical reform of the in-depth cooperation programme. Reform in a way that eliminates this commission, which has previously evaluated the participants in this in-depth programme. This process shall be as automated as possible. And it is also important that additional groupings of taxpayers by volume are introduced, thus enabling small and medium-sized enterprises to become part of the support programme, since in the past this was only a possibility for large companies. The Commission has examined and supported this draft law. I also invite you to support the sitting of the Saeima... The Commission has examined this draft law and is calling for urgency to be given to it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U532	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U533	I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U534	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U535	The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year. Second reading: 27 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U536	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year. Review at the Saeima sitting on 27 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Culture Capital Foundation”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U537	Dear President, Honourable Members! In order to ensure predictability and stability of the activities of the State Culture Capital Foundation, an amendment to the Law on the State Culture Capital Foundation has been prepared. The changes in Article 5 are such that in future 3 per cent of excise duty on alcoholic beverages will be allocated for the current year, 2 per cent of excise duty on tobacco products, 1,37 per cent of the planned annual state budget revenue from lottery taxes and 2,21 per cent of the planned state revenue from gambling taxes for the current year. And the commission also asked to examine it as an urgent matter.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U538	Hence, the Commission asks for the urgent nature of the law. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Culture Capital Foundation” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. And the Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Culture Capital Foundation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - no, for - 8. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U539	Deadline for submission of proposals - 25 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U540	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U541	27 September
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U542	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 25 September of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 27 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U543	Dear colleagues, The aim of this draft law is to improve the regulation of the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations Law regarding persons who have reached retirement age or receive service pension, as well as to establish that the creative person may receive support scholarships within the framework of the programme of events, if its income in the three calendar months preceding the submission of the application for support scholarship does not on average reach 75 per cent of the minimum wage established in the country. It should be noted that this regulation has only recently entered into force, but it is clear that amendments need to be made to make this system more effective and that already this year artists can receive support under the programme. The Commission has therefore examined, supported and called for the urgency of this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U544	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U545	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 25 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U546	Review of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U547	27 September at the sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U548	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 25 September of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 27 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the property law of the apartment”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U549	Hello! The National Administration and Municipal Commission has developed and submitted for first reading a draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”. Existing regulation The first paragraph of Section 4 of the Apartment Property Law means, unfortunately, that it is no longer possible to split the dwellings into the dwellings if they are located on a single plot of land. It is also not possible to split newly built dwellings into dwellings, and this situation makes it difficult or impossible to develop real estate, and it is also, on the other hand, significantly impairs the legal situation of the buyers of the apartment. This draft law also provides for the possibility of dividing the non-residential building into separate properties. The draft law also provides for the decision-making mechanism to be addressed in relation to these amendments. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U550	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U551	The Commission calls for proposals to be submitted by 25 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U552	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U553	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U554	On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U555	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The essence of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” is the addition of the law with the norm, which provides that funds are allocated from municipal budgets to preserve and restore cultural monuments of regional and local importance which are available for public inspection. In fact, this provision has already been established in practice, but perhaps for technical reasons it does not appear in the law. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading and to make it urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U556	Let us first vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. And now we will vote in favour of the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U557	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading without a re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U558	Do Members have objections to the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on the protection of cultural monuments! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. The draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 516 Latvian citizens “The earth under apartment houses should be owned only by residents of these houses”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U559	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On 20 April 2018, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 516 Latvian citizens (The Head of the Seimas knocked down with a hammer.) under the heading ‘The land under apartment buildings must be owned exclusively by the inhabitants of these houses’. On 16 May, the Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima heard the applicant, who pointed out that in 1991, at the time the land reform started, in most cases the land parcels were not offered for redemption to the residents of the house; there was no information about the time of sale, about the land owners, about the meeting place with the land owners. Now all residents of these houses have become financial hostages of this system and are forced to pay 30-40 euros per month: the land reform adopted in 1991 has affected almost 350 thousand people - owners of Latvian apartments and members of their families who pay the land rent. The author explained that communication with landowners is minimal: they refuse to contact the residents of the house, do not perform any improvement of the territory, but only demand money and calculate the fine. According to the author, “the plot of land written to the apartment house must be transferred to the property of the residents of this house or of the society of residents”. The country must correct its error, buy land and return it to the owners of the apartments. On June 13, in the meeting of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Chairman of the Committee of State Administration and Local Government of the Saeima, and Viktors Valainis, Member of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government of the Saeima, expressed their views. The representatives of the Commission expressed their support for the nature of the application, stating that the draft law on the termination of forced split property in the privatised multi-apartment buildings to be examined by the Commission provides that, by agreement between the parties, the land is to be redeemed but paid for by the person himself. The State could provide guarantees and financial support for groups such as the low-income, pensioners and others. The representatives of the Commission recognised that the biggest problem is that risks arise in the context of the Satversme, if there is a dispute between two persons involved, caused by unjustified decisions taken by the State. The decisions of the Constitutional Court are also in favour of land owners. The National Administration and Local Government Commission supported the application and agreed to continue to look at it while working on the draft law on the termination of forced divided property in the privatised apartment houses. Having assessed all the above information, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application decided to prepare the draft decision of the Saeima and to submit this application to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. At its meeting on 12 September, the Commission unanimously decided to submit a collective application of 10 516 Latvian citizens “The land under multi-apartment houses should be owned only by the residents of these houses” for further assessment by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U560	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 516 Latvian citizens “The earth under apartment houses should be owned only by residents of these houses””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. (Applause) Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of the draft law. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U561	Hello! We work with the bill. Four proposals have been received for the third, final, reading. The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U562	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U563	The proposal has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U564	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U565	The proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U566	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U567	And 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U568	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U569	I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U570	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. But I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today. Member of the Minister for Health Anda Čakša “On adequate operational security of the national health insurance system” of Zarina, Tretjaka, Niconova, Zuvėvs and Zemļinskas. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the burden, it will not be possible to attend the oral response. So replying to Members' questions will not happen today. A question has been received from Members. Members Arturs Rubiks, Raimonds Rubiks, Tretyaka, Morozovs and Cilevičs have submitted the question “On safety control in the event of viral infection in animal holdings” that we give to the Minister of Agriculture to respond. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U571	Dear colleagues, Has not registered: Aija Barča, Inesis Boķis, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dombrava, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Nelli Kleinberga... Oh, Kirstein is... Ivan Klementjevs, Ainars Latkovskis, Jeļena Lazareva, Imants Krādnieks, Renārs Putniņš, Romualds Ražuks, Inguna Silverba and Silvija Simfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-20-PT12-493-U572	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
