ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Let's start the Saeima meeting on 17 May 2018. Before we start to examine the agreed agenda, we need to decide on possible amendments to it. The Legal Commission is asking for an amendment to the agenda of today's sitting to include the draft decision on the approval of Vineta Mazures as a judge of the district (city) court. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking for an amendment to the agenda of today's sitting to include the draft decision “On approval of Irina Norkusas as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. On the other hand, the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for an amendment to the Saeima's agenda for today's sitting and includes a statement entitled "On the renewal of the 12th Saeima Member's mandate" before the section entitled "Results of the Bureau". Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Members Tutin, Ribakov, Adamson, Ivan Klementyev, Orlov, Pimenov, Zujev, Tretjak, Potapkin and Arthur Rubik are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of today's sitting “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member John Tutin from the National Security Commission”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Members Ivan Klementyev, Ribakov, Adamson, Tretjak, Orlov, Pimenov, Tutin, Zujev, Potapkins and Arthur Rubik are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of today's sitting “On the withdrawal of Mr Ivan Klementyev, Member of the Saeima from the Committee on European Affairs”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Members Adamson, Zarins, Urbanovich, Ribakov, Andrejs Klementyev, Orlovs, Zujevs, Arthur Rubiks, Morozovs and Potapkins are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of today's sitting “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Sergey Potapkin from the Sustainable Development Commission”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Members Tutin, Ribakov, Adamson, Ivan Klementyev, Orlov, Pimenov, Zujev, Tretjaka, Potapkin and Arthur Rubik are asking for the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member John Tutin to the Commission for Sustainable Development to be on the agenda for today's sitting. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Members Ivan Klementyev, Ribakov, Adamson, Morozov, Orlov, Pimenov, Tutin, Zujev, Tretjak and Potapkin ask for the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Ivan Klementyev to the National Security Commission to be on the agenda for today's sitting. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. And Members Adamson, Zarins, Urbanovičs, Ribakovs, Andrejs Klementyevs, Morozovs, Zujevs, Arthur Rubiks, Orlovs and Potapkins are asking for the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Sergey Potapkin, to be on the European Affairs Commission, to be on the agenda for today's sitting. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Dear colleagues, We are starting to discuss the agenda for today's sitting. The first item is the report by Inga Betes, Member of the Parliament, on the renewal of the mandate of the 12th Saeima. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications announces that according to the parliamentary roll, Article 5, paragraph 2.1 and paragraph 3 and the application of Inga Bites of 8 May 2018 for renewal of a Member's mandate, which she has placed on parental leave, she will restore her mandate. Ivars Brīlērs, who, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, was part of the Saeima for a period from the list of Riga electoral district of the Association of the Regions of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U3	Thank you. Please, Members of Inga Biti, take a seat in the Chamber. And I would like to thank Ivars Freeer on behalf of all of us for his work at this time while he was working in the Saeima. The next item is the reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by the Member of the Saeima to the committees of the Saeima and that it be established that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible. According to the parliamentary roll, one Member can speak "for", one can speak "for". ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U4	Colleagues, good morning! Some quotes to have a context. Egil Levit believes that this proposal to involve voters in a certain way in the selection of candidates could satisfy some of the dissatisfied, as however, it is possible to get involved in some way: “I think that it is perhaps a completely new proposal.” Edgars Pastis: “This solution sounds a little unexpected, but it is certainly interesting and worth the discussion.” Member Ringolds Balodis: “In principle, I think that the whole direction of thought is welcome.” Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere: “We are offered such a very specific francenstein... As such, the parliament should elect this man as President of the State, who has the highest powers in foreign policy, who has the highest powers in the field of national security (which is the highest leader of the national armed forces). And the question you're offering us at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Do you really understand how dangerous it is?’ Inese Lībiņa-Egnere said a few years ago that the Reform Party, together with the National Union, was hoping to convince Unity of a people's elected president and that another question was about the scope of the President's mandate. Then I have a question: what did you offer us at the time? Did you really understand how dangerous it is, Mrs. Lībiņa-Egnere? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Libiņa-Egnere: “You live today or yesterday?” ) In particular, the evaluation and discussions on this initial proposal remained entirely absent, as the coalition agreed in a friendly manner, wiped out this offer from the agenda in a way that would be overlooked and gain no less attention from the public space. Therefore, colleagues, we reduced our solution to the minimum, leaving only the essence of what is particularly important - the open election of the President. And the most important thing here is the opinion of the ZZS. Augusts Brigmanis very positively appreciates the fact that the elections in the Latvian Football Federation were closed and Gorkšs was elected in the secret elections. Mr. Brigmann, seriously?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The management of the Latvian Football Federation is elected by football clubs, which are financially dependent on this Federation and its decisions - whether the club will then be given money. Therefore, the elections are also secret. Let me remind you that Members of the Saeima are on the contrary! - are financially dependent on all taxpayers and not on party sponsors. Isn't that right? Correct if I am wrong! The people of Latvia have the right to know exactly who has acted with their powers and elected the first highest state official of Latvia - the President of Latvia on their behalf. It's so easy! The second argument. Mr. Many! It is the open vote of Members that is more influential than the secret vote, because the Member is forced to take a common view, whether it is established by the party or imposed by the party, and perhaps, if he does not want to risk his political career, his relationship with the members of the party, he votes contrary to what he actually thinks. In particular, in a secret ballot, without risking these consequences, a vote may be taken independently, not in accordance with the majority of the political group represented by the Saeima. Colleagues! It turns out that there is only one day in four years when Members are released from the trap in the wild or in freedom when they can vote independently. I am afraid to think about how you come to work for the remaining 1455 days in the parliamentary term when you make absolutely all the other decisions that need to be made openly. Are they fear of repression, fear of their careers? What happens to the election of other officials - SAB, KNAB, Security Police and judges - which is taking place openly? Colleagues! A week ago, the situation was hopeless. These were only 36 votes for the open election of the President, namely the inclusion of the proposal on the agenda. Even the Member Kaimiņš, who told the Saeima to fight for openness, listened to the dictate of Member Augusta Brigmanis, took and voted against the open election of the President. But on Tuesday evening, the leader of a group in the programme by Mr Dombur recognised that the group SASKAN would support the open election of the President. Colleagues, this changes everything! We have a narrow opportunity to support right now and to do what the Saeima has been unable to do for years: we have today, colleagues, a constitutional majority. The question is: do you have a statehood and the spine just now make a decision? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “Urah!” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U5	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U6	Good morning, honourable Chairman of the sitting! Good morning, colleagues! The previous speaker, to put it simply, the walker of the great parties, who (Dep. L. Cigan: “And you?” ) has just presented this amendment to the Constitution... I would like to add that the President of Latvia must be elected to the open Saeima vote here in this Chamber. Open! I am against the fact that the Unity Group has tabled this amendment to the Constitution by 51 per cent... Oh, no, no, not a faction of Unity, but another faction. I know the Unity of factions, I know THE SOUND, I know the National... But what's that... I don't really know that group... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L.Vigāne: “Wood in your head!” ) But on the proposal to speak. I mean, the future in three minutes and 50 seconds... I expect the ZZS to vote against the open presidential elections. SASKAY will vote, Mr. Urbanovich, 'for', right? Oh, of course! I'm predicting the future. The agreement will be voted in favour, the National Association will vote in favour, the CPV LV will vote in favour. But what will now be done... I think it should be done that it's not 51 percent... 51 Members of the Saeima vote... not by 51 votes, but at least 70. And I repeat: if the President is not elected in the first voting round, then the leaders of local governments also take part in the vote. This will lead to greater revolt, greater competition (Dep. E.Smilten: “What is the link with this proposal?” The opportunity here, in the Saeima, to get the best presidential candidate for our country, Latvia. I call for support. But sorry, Mr. Many, that I spoke against (Sitting Leader: Yes!) ), but... You will also vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U7	Yeah, but you're breaking the Rally of the Order right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U8	Yeah, I...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U9	You had to speak against. One can speak 'no', one - 'for'.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U10	Yes! Yes! I'm mixing! I'm mixing! Yes!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U11	Yeah. It would be desirable to learn Article 54 of the Order Roll within three and a half years. Please call me! Let's vote in favour of Mr. Cleinberg...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U12	We made an application!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U13	I'm sorry! First of all, we are voting! ( Internouncing call.) Mr. Smilten! You can't climb without an invitation! I'm telling you about breaking the Order Roll. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “I will immediately throw it out of the Saeima!” ) We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by the Members of the Saeima to all the Saeima committees by Ms Kleinberga, Ms Smiltēna, Mr Viļuma, Mr Krūmiņš and Mr Melgalis, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Group, it is requested to give the floor to Mr Hosam Abu Meri's Group's Unity to state the reasons for the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U14	Good morning, colleagues! Head of sitting! For more than ten years, this issue has been on the Saeima's agenda. And for more than ten years, the Saeima has been unable to make a decision at last to end political trade around our country's senior official. The official who is the face of our country in world politics. The closed votes in the Saeima have humiliated many talented and capable professionals. Although they received the majority support publicly, they were not elected solely for reasons of political intrigues and various personal interests. I would remind you that 45 Members of the Saeima voted as candidate for the post of Prosecutor General Janis Maitis, but before that, 58 Members of the newspaper “Daena” had stated that they would support his candidacy. So 13 Members lied! But the public did not know their names or the price of this vote. By committing ourselves to the office of Member, we “proclaim Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform our duties in good faith and with the best consciousness”. However, there are Members who want to continue climbing. This simple amendment only involves replacing the word ‘enclosed’ in the Constitution with the word ‘public’. This would make the last hidden political market as part of the vote by a Member impossible. It's so easy! But every time this question comes to a decision by the Members, it's like drawing a fire on the heels. The resistance of individual parties and the efforts made to block this initiative and to remove red lines clearly demonstrate the vital importance of this cover for the oligarchs. However, the decision about the President of Latvia must be made here in the Saeima, not in the "Rīdzene" hotel, in Puez or in the "Clouds" - it must be open! Now too, illusions that this draft law has a future in this Saeima. However, colleagues, we have to ask a rhetorical question: is there no shame for our vote? Can you explain it to the public? Do you not think that the inviolability of your personal views should be more important than the basic parliamentary principles? We do not represent each and every one of us, we represent the people of Latvia, and they have the right to know what their leaders choose as President of Latvia and why. They have the right to know what their superiors decide about Lacplesy's day... Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Saeima Presidium has received an application from 10 Members - Kleinberg, Schitz, Smiltena, Melgiel, Platopera, Šimfas, Krumina, Ruka, Viļuma and Betes - in which they are asking to read, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 140 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the vote of each Member on the referral to the committees of the draft law "Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia". The second paragraph of Article 140 refers to Article 54 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that one Member may speak "on", one of them against this proposal. No one has applied for, but in any case we must vote on this proposal. So please call! We will vote in favour of the proposal of 10 Members - to read the vote on the referral of the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to the commissions! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 53, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the proposal is supported. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunārs Kūtris, to read the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U16	The results of the vote on the referral of the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” (No 1251/Lp12) to commissions. Hosam Abu Meri - for, Aldis Adamovich - for, Jānis Adamsons - for, Inga Bite - for, Andris Bikiķis - for, Boris Cilevičs - for, Einars Cilinskis - for, Lolita Chigāne - for, Sergey Dolgopolovs - for, Jānis Dombrava - for, Raivis Dzintars - for, Artis Gustovskis - for, Aleksandrs Jakirovs - for, Ritvars Jansons - for, Andrejs Jubins - for, Artuss Kaimiņš - for, Aleksandrs Kiršteins - for, Nelija Kleinberga - for, Andrejs Klementjevs - for, Ivans Klementjevs - for, Rihards Kols - for, Karlis Krēsliņš - for, Varis Krūmiņš - for, Janina Kursite-Pakule, for, Inese-Ain, Ainazis Latkowskis - for Biosa - Jas-Ags-Ags-Agizs-Agizs-Agizs, Bioe for Bioe for Biosssssssss-Aa-Aa-Assssssss-As-As-As-As-Ass-As-As-As-As-Ass-As-As-As-As-As-Asss-As-As-As-Ass-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-As-A Veiko Spolitis - par, Jūlija Stepanenko - par, Laimdota Straujuma - par, Mārtiņš Šics - par, Silvija Šimfas - par, Juris Šulcs - par, Jānis Tutins - par, Jānis Urbanovičs - par, Juris Viļums - par, Dzintars Zaķis - par, Mihails Zemļinskis - par, Igor Ząjevs - par, Gundars Many - v, Gundars Kūtris - v, Aivars Meija - v, Inguna Silver - anti, refrains - not. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “And who took the cards?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U17	Thank you. Let's move to the next item on the agenda. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission’ submitted by the Saeima's Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Member Debtor wants to talk about? Please turn on the microphone for the debtor!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U18	There was an application from the Commission to approve at first reading, without a re-examination, by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U19	Yes, my dear colleagues! The parliamentary round intends to change the agenda once the draft law has been passed to the commission, and then we will talk about the section “Review of draft laws”. Thank you for your reminder, but I know that. So no one is against it. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Labour Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Are there any objections from Members? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Electronic Documents” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 22, no. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Notary Law” be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 23, it's not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Meeting the Issues of Apartments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -23, refrains - not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the rental of residential premises” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Law on the rental of residential premises” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -24, refrains - not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, Before we start to discuss the next item on the agenda, we need to decide yet more on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda of today's meeting the first reading of draft laws, drafted by the same Commission, amending the Law on the Financial and Capital Market Commission, without re-examination by the Commission. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The next item is "On own-initiative proposals tabled". Members Jānis Dombrava, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Andris Buiķis, Inese Laizāne, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Einārs Cilinskis, Ringolds Balodis, Gaidis Berzins, Kārlis Krēsliņš, Romanas Nadiņš and Raivis Dzintars have submitted their own proposal – draft decision “Declaration of a crime of totalitarian regimes and a condemnation of totalitarian ideology”. Are Members opposed to putting this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for today's sitting? Members object. We must therefore decide whether this own-initiative proposal should be placed on the agenda for the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima. Do Members have objections? Members object. According to the Rules of Procedure, one Member may speak in favour, one against the draft decision, the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the next part-session. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein. He's obviously going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U20	Honourable Members! Why, though, do we need to support this declaration today, and why is it written right now? We just celebrated Karl Marx's 200th birthday, a man. L. Chigan: “We didn’t mark! You don’t have to generalize!” )... In the European Union (Internal references.) ... the man who created social racism and genocide, the man who proclaimed that non-private ownership, freedom of competition, and the rule of law are the best. Proclaiming that the value of a good is determined by a job, ignoring investment, innovation, competition, private property and heritage rights, he created training that led many countries to poverty, low-quality production, hunger and genocide. If someone says that this is not the case today, let us see how this lesson is implemented in Zimbabwe or Venezuela, North Korea or Cuba, where there is not only a shortage of toilet paper, but also a lack of money to print this wonderful state facility for financial support. These experiments would be perhaps a minor disaster if, according to various estimates, this learning had not caused around 100 million deaths in the world: in Europe - 30 to 40 million and in Asia - 60 million. Genocide, the Holodomor in Ukraine, caused four to seven million deaths. And as a crown to the entire European Commission President Juncker's greeting to the European Union, honouring the founder of bloody ideology in Germany, visiting the statue of Marks, which was given by Chinese Communists in Germany on the day Germany starts to build Nord Stream 2, together with Marks, who was trained in communism schools in the region. What, then, did one of Karl Marx's works teach us, the manifesto of the Communist Party? Just a few of themes. The whole history of society has been a battle of classes. In this sense, Communists can express their theory in one subject: the liquidation of private property, the dictatorship of proletariat. The proletariat uses its political power to phase out all capital and capital for bourgeois... and achieve the entry of capital goods, tools into the hands of proletariat. What this means for us in Latvia was demonstrated in 1919, when Peteris Stučka tried to realise this idea: expropriation of land property, elimination of inheritance rights, centralization of credits in the hands of the state, state factories, production, landscaping and cultivation according to a common plan, compulsory work for all, establishment of industrial armies in agriculture. We saw results in Ukraine in the 1930s. The system of colloquiums in the former socialist countries. Political power in the real sense of the word is one class of violence against the other class. This theory led to a network of concentration camps and genocide in all socialist countries. As we know, the first concentration camp in Latvia was installed in Zakusala. The proletariat dictatorship will promote socialism. It could be said that it was in ancient times, and today it has nothing to do with it. However, these ideas have survived like a Phoenics from the ash. In Greece, more than 30 percent of the parties voted under the flags of sirp and hammer; in France, more than 11 percent voted for Communist ideas. ‘ Get off with the illusions! Prepare for battle.” - with this invitation from Mao, the well-known professor of French philosophy, Alain Badju, opened a convention in London in March 2009 entitled “Decommunism Ideas” and formulated the main idea that Communism will be won sooner or later. To conclude, I therefore call on everyone to conclude: if even the President of the European Commission shares these ideas, then our duty in the new countries of the European Union is not to forget the victims and to remind us of the devastation and disaster that the ideas of Communism have brought to the peoples of Europe. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U21	Thank you. No one has applied for to speak against, but there were many rounds from the hall that did not support the inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the own-initiative proposal - the draft decision "Declaration of the condemnation of crimes of totalitarian regimes and of totalitarian ideology" - to be included on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting of the Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 15, against - 28, refrains - 25. This draft decision is not included on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. Are there any proposals for transferring this draft decision to one of the commissions? Please turn on the microphone member Janis Dombrava!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U22	Given the call to move this issue further in the format of the Baltic Assembly, I have a proposal to refer the matter to the Foreign Affairs Commission, which can then also move it forward - to the Baltic Assembly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U23	Thank you. Under the Rules of Procedure roll also on this proposal one can talk about, one – “to”. Nobody's signed up. We have to make a distinction between this... I'm sorry? ( Insight: “Do not! Don’t!” ) Atis Leiiņš. Yes, please! Turn on the microphone for Mr. Atom Lenys!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U24	I'm sorry. I'm sorry! There are no grounds for this. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U25	Yes! Thank you. ( The utterances are: ‘ Let’s vote! ’) ) Please call again! We will vote for the transfer to the Foreign Affairs Commission of the draft decision of the Saeima on the condemnation of crimes of totalitarian regimes and the justification of totalitarian ideology! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 14, against - 40, refraining from - 20. The draft decision has not been referred to the Commission and is therefore to be considered rejected. Dear colleagues, Before we start to discuss the next section of the agenda for the Saeima, we need to decide yet more on possible amendments to the agenda for today's sitting. Members Bite, Kleinberga, Melgailis, Viļums, Šics, Smiltēns, Ruks, Symfa, Platoper and Krumins are asking for the draft decision on the election of Member Inga Betes to the Legal Commission to be on the agenda of today's sitting. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Members Bite, Kleinberga, Melgailis, Viļums, Šics, Ruks, Smiltēns, Platoper, Šimfas and Krūmiņš ask for the draft decision on the election of Member Inga Betes to the Commission of Mandate, Ethics and Application. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. Let us start by looking at the next section of the agenda, entitled 'On the granting of leave'. For granting unpaid leave to Member Romanas Moneys from 5 June to 7 June 2018. Member Roman Money asked him to grant unpaid leave from June 5 to June 7. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Roman Money from 5 June to 7 June this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Leave to Member Money has been granted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision on distrust to the Minister for Health Anda Čakšai, submitted by Members Kleinberga, Smiltēns, Šics, Platopers, Melgailis, Freezers, Ruks, Krumins, Symfas and Viļums. Let's start a debate. The name of the Member Silvia Symphas, who will speak on behalf of the speakers.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U26	Hello, honourable colleagues! Dear colleagues, Madam Minister, Minister of Health Anda Čakša entered his post on 16 June 2016. Today, the Association of the Regions of Latvia demands her resignation or resignation, because the concept of "demission" means both. She has served for almost two years as Minister of Health. The opponents of the mission will say that it is too little time to ask her for any significant results. I would like to remind you that before she took up the position of Minister at the highest level of health care organisers, Mrs. Čakša had been on the board since 2011, when she became Chair of the Board of the Children Clinical University Hospital. For a few years she was also a member of the board of Pauls Stradins Clinical University Hospital and a medical adviser to the Minister of Health Gunta Belevičs for a few months. We like it or not, but we live in a time that requires rapid decision making and rapid action. Moreover, no one has removed the requirement for these decisions to be taken as far as possible, with predictable consistency and qualitatively met. This is the time and circumstances. Nothing personal. By collecting information on the work of the Ministry of Health both at the sittings of the Saeima Commission and from its voters - the users of the health care system - and from the information field and conclusions of internationally recognised experts, the Association of the Regions of Latvia has fallen out of the view which can be expressed with the words of the opinion of the State Audit Office. I quote: “The Ministry of Health has not positioned itself as a strong leading institution in the health sector, because its activities are not sufficient to achieve the objective set by the Ministry of Health of ensuring timely, safe, high-quality and equal access to health services, while at the same time making rational use of available resources.” ( End quoted) I expect that in contrast to this, the advocates of the Minister will call for the historically largest increase in funding for the sector in the restored Latvia. Say what else can be done in our poor country? The Ministry has won as much funding as ever for the health sector! But it is less imprudent, because the international authoritarian organisation at the OECD, where we recently joined, deciding, by the way, on the cost of a member's money, is saying (concluded) about us in its report: “The amount of funds and system resources devoted to health in Latvia is abnormally small.” I stress these two words “extra-small”. ‘ Latvia spends 5.3 per cent of GDP on healthcare... – less than the OECD average of 8.9 per cent [...]. This is partly due to low public funding in Latvia, which accounts for 3.2 per cent of GDP, much less than the OECD average, which was 6.5 per cent in 2013. Of all OECD countries, only Mexico spends as little as Latvia and Chile [...] of GDP on health through public funding." ( End quoted) I stress "public funding". On the other hand, if we express ourselves in the same style, the people of Latvia pay an unusual amount of money from their pockets for healthcare. This has also been noted by the European Commission and has long been pointed out by the Latvian governments. I quote: "The main obstacle to access to healthcare is the quota system and high co-payments by patients, which accounted for 42 per cent of funding from the whole sector in 2015. On average, in the European Union, this figure is only 15 per cent. Therefore, it is not surprising that the estimated life expectancy in Latvia is still well below the average of the European Union - 74,8 years against 80.6 years, but mortality rates are among the highest in the European Union.” ( End quoted) I think that it is still fresh to remember how the Health Financing Act, one of the main elements of the reform of the system, was created with great distress and discussion. The Association of the Regions of Latvia has always been sceptical and critical about this law, the analysis of which was carried out by three high-class lawyers in medical law - Slokenberg, Gusarova and Vilka. This assessment is, in our view, also relevant to the law that has already entered into force. Jurists answer the question of whether the objective is to create funding or to solve problems, that if the objective is to create additional funding for the health sector rather than to address problems, this seems to have been achieved to a large extent by setting up an appropriate infrastructure for it, it is not clear how effective it is. If the aim is to solve the growing problems, the lawyers believe that this will be a failed attempt. They can be agreed, as problems exist in the use of existing funds (e.g. tariff formation, choice of service providers and volumes). With only an increase in funding, but without addressing the issue of use, without establishing clear principles of the use of funding at the level of the law, the expected effect actually decreases to meet the immediate need and not to create a sustainable health sector. Every person who participates in the formation of funding in order to obtain the status of an insured person will feel it in their daily budget. The insured person will fulfil his obligations towards the state, the state will also fulfil its self-esteem in the health sector - promote responsible tax payments. But the question of whether the State commits to insured persons and whether the charges collected and the additional resources planned will indeed ensure the necessary availability, quality and scope of healthcare remains open. The European Commission notes in its report that the poor health indicators in Latvia are certainly related to the low level of public expenditure, but also notes that other European Union countries achieve better results with equally modest per capita expenditure. And if, until then, all the absences in the health care system, under the direct political responsibility of the Minister for Health, could be justified by the lack of the necessary financial resources, then after such a conclusion - not at all. Of course, we know that the claims against the health system and its creators and maintainers - the Ministry of Health - have developed and accumulated since the previous governments and previous ministers, but it must also be recognised that, within less than two years, Mrs Čakša has not been able to demonstrate that, under her leadership, the Ministry will be able to resolve them in a reasonable time and effectively. This is reflected in the endless continuation of the eHealth gap, with an increasing number of millions of euros without any acceptable outcome. An official of the Ministry who is involved in the formation of this saga (instead of encouraging verification of service!) , the Minister and Minister's striking unwillingness to address the problems posed by the donor sex cell business (in spite of the persistent efforts of the Parliamentary Commission on Social and Labour Affairs to get this field right for at least three years!) ( The noise is on the grass, and the Members are talking to each other.) , Paula Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital’s new hull construction peripetias, oncology patients’ “green corridor” problems, office management statement on planned increase of the punishment...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U27	Dear colleagues, The noise in the Chamber just exceeds the voice of the rapporteur. Please be polite to one another and to the speaker. Please continue, Mrs. Schiff.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U28	... Notification by the management of the emergency medical service of a planned increase in the penalty if the call for emergency assistance is qualified as an unjustified call. Is it not the Minister for Health who should have thought the first to think about the health problems that such information will cause for older people, and how many fathers and mothers will fall into the heels of their hearts thinking about children's disease? To our unvisitable, complex, bureaucratic jungle of medicine, it is like a disabled person with no leg to take off the cops. But where are things as subtle as psychology! Patient organizations have the slogan that patients are not just ill bodies in hospital beds. The question is whether and when the Minister and the health system as a whole will hear it. The European Commission notes that 26 percent of Latvians do not have access to healthcare services. And this is a high indicator, because on average it is five per cent in the European Union. The number of working population in Latvia is decreasing, and if it is accompanied by the poor health status of many people and consistently increasing number of people with disabilities, the problem is getting worse. What measures are being taken to prevent the lack of access to healthcare? From the patient's point of view, nothing tangible. Patient contributions and co-payments remain, quotas and queues remain, the need to pay to the private sector (if no longer expected) remains, drug prices do not decrease. The outlying inhabitants of Riga region also have a geographical unavailability: doctors are far away and not enough, roads are not available, public transport is rarely and uncomfortable. And what the Minister with his army... Is that so? Often more clearly the figures and facts of a particular case or situation are characterized by similarities. There you go! I see the Ministry of Health as such a large, clumsy body, whose head is connected to the body in a tiny song and rolling forward. It is also something that works for him, but to a large extent thanks to the fact that it is supported, encouraged and delayed by the presidents of two parliamentary commissions - Aija Barča and Andris Berzins - with the participation of members of the Social and Labour Commission and the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission, as well as the participation of members of the Public Health Sub-Committee in the lead of Romualds Produku. As a member of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and a member of the Sub-Commission on Public Health, who is also involved in this supervision, hastening, fearing, I am increasingly strengthened by the belief that the Minister does not direct the Ministry, the planned reform, processes or the system. The question is, Is there a need, and why, for executive powers that fail to meet their direct responsibilities? Some time ago, her personality in the daily newspaper “Daily” – a very independent expert, as he described himself, candle John – because of the mistakes of another minister in his article “Demission - Panacey” – said so (please quote): “It is clear that the depressions solve problems. Latvia's difficulties are caused at all by the under-remissions. In Estonia, I think it is much more common to derision, not to mention Finland, Norway, Denmark. That's why life's better. In addition, it saves money. If the minister and other perpetrators remain in their places, commission, spend on consultants and in such a way.” At the end of his reflections, Rundži Jānis asks: “By the way, do you feel a displeasure of the past in the quote “I will stay in my place... ‘?’ Your vote on the resignation of the Minister for Health Anda Čakša, colleagues, will be a very tangible answer to this existential question.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U29	Thank you. The name is Anda Chakša, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U30	Hello! Honorary Head of the sitting! Your Honorary Saeima Office! Dear Members, honourable Members, Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! Almost two years ago, the Saeima authorised me to run the Ministry of Health. At this time, enough has already been done in the sector to make sure I now feel that I have justified your commitment advance at that time. I am very grateful to the legislator for consistent support for me and the Ministry, especially for the law adopted last year at the end of the law reforming the financing of health care. My greatest thanks to my fellow Members for this year's national budget, which gave medicals an increase of almost 200 million lenses. Such a generous contribution finally allows the sector to implement the long-needed, permanent and, I want to believe, also societally appreciated changes. Therefore, I am counting on your vote today to receive a renewed and convincing mandate for my work and for the work of the ministry to continue the programme of the government of Māra Kučinska to improve the health care system in Latvia. On the other hand, when I began serving as a minister, I had little reason for optimism. Health problems have been accumulated for many years - many governments. Despite traditional pre-election promises, the sector was financed on the principle of surpluses - something else always seemed to be a priority. Therefore, the state of health, as it were in Latvia at the time and is still at the moment, is precisely described by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the European Commission's 2016 study. At the beginning of the summary of the study it is stated (concluded): “The Latvian health care system as a whole provides effective care to citizens with significantly less resources – and more health care needs – than in most OECD countries.” The study highlights that Latvian health care funding has a very small proportion of public investment compared to the national health care systems of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This represented around three per cent of gross domestic product. On average, in the European Union, this figure was 9.9 percent in 2016. Therefore, the amount currently allocated by Latvia to health care of one of its citizens - it is 565 euros per year - can only be impressive if it is compared with the corresponding 2015 rate of 395 euros. The cost of the Estonian state for each of its people is twice as high as EUR 1155. In Sweden, Ireland, Germany, the health budgets per capita are close to four thousand euros. I think that these figures show how deep the health system was and still is in the crisis. I was entrusted with a sector in which patients had to go in hopelessly long lines for years, waiting for their opportunity to have access to the overcharged professionals. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rīklana: “What has changed?” ) The amount of their co-payments increased unstoppably, reaching 40 per cent or more of the price of the services received. Even the state-compensated medicines people in Latvia had to pay more and more due to the increasing tendency to prescribe expensive brand medicines rather than effective patent-free medicines. The work of doctors and nurses was not properly paid. Their vote with their feet or fleeing from Latvia or from their profession became ever more tangible. The hunger for human resources went hand in hand with the so - called extended normal working hours. It seemed to be an inevitable rule in hospitals. Meanwhile, somewhere in the peripherals of my and industry attention to the bounty of public health policy developed a long and difficult clash of e-health. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Ryban's transcripts.) To change things, you first need to talk about something openly. To make the room bright, the lights are turned on. And I have to say that the government of Māra Kučinska ended this sweeping under the carpet, brought these problems to light and put them clearly on the table. System disasters and faults were recognised and named on behalf of us by drawing up a sectoral reform plan, which we started with the most painful points (in order of priority). The aim of the health sector reform is to establish a sustainable health care system in Latvia with stable and growing funding, which would serve the interests of both patients and professionals working in the sector, from family doctor practices to highly technological and complex services provided by university hospitals. For patients, it will ensure the availability of all necessary health care services by reducing their co-payments, and for doctors and other medical professionals - it will guarantee adequate pay and professional development. Today, Latvia's healthcare is very far from any ideal. We are still looking for the most effective solution to a number of the disasters in the sector that I have called for. However, there is a positive dynamic in the sector, as seen by both patients and medical practitioners. Healthcare is currently at an important moment of breakthrough. This year's budget in excess of billions of euros has finally made it possible to resolve the most important tragic nodes operationally and create the conditions for further development. As a minister of true political firefall, I had a reform of a hospital network called a health card. It was a dramatic clash between the vital interests of municipalities and the political need of the government. However, the Ministry, together with municipalities and the management of hospitals under mapping, managed to achieve the result by taking into account the needs of patients, their ability to get real help, and also meeting quality requirements. I am pleased that this work has resulted in the maintenance or even improvement of the range of services available at first, second and third-level hospitals, involving European Union funding, as well as the creation of uniform indicators of quality in order to receive the service in the same way throughout Latvia. In either group, treatment in the hospital was not reduced and the range of tests was not reduced. This experience has strengthened my conviction that we can carry out all the reform of the sector without any kind of outward shock therapy, and even more so without brutal amputations. As of this year, half of the increase of EUR 200 million in addition to investment was invested in improving the availability of services. And there is already a reduction in rows. The state pays a lot more health care, and therefore patients are able to receive 200 thousand more investigations this year, 100 thousand more specialist consultations, about 30 thousand more daily hospital services... Sugar diabetic offices that train patients and outpatient rehabilitation. From the second half of 2017, the government is investing money in services where the longest lines are formed. The results show that the solution is the right one. Additional funding was obviously able to reduce the number of rows - to certain specialist consultations even by 42 percent, to investigations - by 33 percent, to individual day-to-day hospital services - by 68 percent. The industry demonstrates to Latvian society that we are able to make effective use of the investments entrusted and even to guarantee them a satisfactory return. The public health care system learns to lighten earlier the strong impression of itself as a bag. Of course, what looks good in percentage does not always create optimism when you see absolute numbers. For example, in Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital - hospital “Biķernieki” - row to services in ophthalmology is decreasing by almost 90 percent. That sounds impressive. In absolute terms, this drop means that prior to that, the patients waited 5,000 days in the queue, that is, 14 years. At present, this reduction is up to 500 days. Less than a year and a half. Not 14 anymore, but anyway, of course, too long. This is an incentive to continue our policy of investing in reducing queues. Almost EUR 100 million was invested this year in raising the remuneration of doctors, assistants to doctors, sisters and assistants to nurses. On average, doctors' salaries have increased by 31 percent compared to last year, while nurses' salaries have increased by 27 percent. In the major public hospitals, where work is more intensive, salaries grew by an average of 30-50 percent. Family doctors also have increased capital money this year, as well as income related to meeting quality criteria. They have been complemented by a total of 15.7 million. Two programmes have also been launched for the development of family doctor practice, firstly by stimulating their work outside Riga, and secondly by promoting cooperation between doctors and other specialists. However, this increase in remuneration should not remain a one-off measure. Motivating and addressing expectations will not prevent the chronic shortage of specialists and staff. In order to keep their doctors and other doctors in Latvian hospitals and practices, to encourage young people to study medicine, a policy of stable growth in the salaries of employees in the sector is necessary. General public health insurance was set up as one of the most important instruments to ensure stable financing. Only with stable funding will it be possible to ensure access to treatment at the level of the most developed European countries. This is the only way to strengthen the sector's success in Latvia at the end of the liver transplantation, prevention of cardiac risks, and reduction of women's mortality risks at birth. Already in the middle of last year, the Ministry of Health started to phase out the extended normal working time for medical patients introduced in the years of the economic crisis. I am grateful to the Constitutional Court for its recent decision to speed up it up and let us abandon this practice already in 2019. One of the objectives of the health reform is to reduce the cost of medicines for patients. The country has significantly increased its contribution this year to compensate patients for the costs of medicines they need. The budget for this purpose has been increased by a quarter. Last year, EUR 128 million was allocated to eligible medicines, with 161 million this year. From this year, 100 percent of medicines for Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and psoriasis are being compensated. The list of countervailable medicinal products includes new medicinal products for gastrointestinal tumours at multiple locations, metastatic lung tumours with proven mutations, metastatic intestinal tumours with and without mutations, metastatic prostate tumours before and after chemotherapy, and metastatic breast cancer. In the short term, this list will be supplemented by medicinal products for melanoma, ovarian tumours and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Additional funding in the first quarter of 2018 allowed to increase the number of HIV and AIDS patients treated by a fifth compared to the respective period in 2017; overall, 2023 HIV and AIDS patients received treatment at the end of April. The second is to reduce the cost of medicines. The Ministry of Health launched a new political initiative based on the experience tested by a neighbouring country, by limiting the prices of state-compensated medicines and the co-payment of patients. It provides for the price corridor to be set in the reimbursement system for medicinal products, or the maximum price difference allowed for interchangeable medicinal products (no more than 100 per cent of the price of the cheapest or so-called ‘rapporteur’ medicinal product). Statistics show that in 2016, patients in Latvia paid 23,6 million euros by purchasing much more expensive or non-rapporteurs. Much of this could have been saved. Regarding corridors, one of the most effective ways to reduce patient queues and improve access to treatment is through public-paid special programmes, where money is focused on specific areas of treatment. We call it the Green Corridor. At the end of 2016, we started this practice in oncology. Family doctors and gynecologists can order patient referrals to the order of priority within 10 days; in addition, doctors' consilies and scheduled bonuses for complex oncological surgery are paid out as a matter of priority. This idea was initially a scandal for both professionals and politicians in the sector, but now all those involved in these processes have found that the green corridor is a positive result. A number of oncological diseases have shown a significant increase in the number of cases detected early in the first and second stages, and the faster the diagnosis is made, the faster and the more effective the treatment is started. Based on our experience, we are currently developing a green corridor for our second major problem – cardiovascular disease. Without these optimistic perspectives, you have to touch on topics that hurt me and even more for doctors and pharmacists. I was morally prepared to have the Pandora box of the Minister for Health - full of serious problems in the industry - but it also concealed the Trojan horse - the information system for e-health, which is now my greatest political challenge. Today, public accusations and indignations over the National Health Service over the ancient sins of others. It required computer specialists and programmers to work in extraordinary mode on all holidays in May - to correct and modify this information system. I am convinced that due to their professionalism and perseverance, all this evil nightmare for e-health users will have been successfully forgotten in the second half of the year. These days, there are major changes to the system. There is increased server power, there is a reprogrammed prescription block. This must soon be seen as a result of improving speed in the middle of the working day, when the system is under greater pressure and therefore slows down. Even despite the hard experience of doctors and pharmacists, e-health has already become an integral part of the industry, which has been intensively used. By 1 May 2018, 4.2 million prescriptions and half a million sick leave were issued in the eHealth system. There are also a quarter million visual diagnostic findings available on the portal. Some 20,000 people received European health insurance cards through e-health. I will briefly remind you of the progress of the eHealth project. It started to be planned and designed 15 years ago - in 2003. The basic development of the project continued for eight years – from 2007 to 2015. As a result of the crisis, the project was divided into several stages. It was attended by eight different developers: Lattelecom Technology, In-volv Latvia, ABC Software, Computer Science Centre, Lattelecom, Meditec, Exigen Services LATVIA, Tieto Latvia. Some of the companies had already completed this process of land, when the strange product of their well paid efforts was made for my responsibility. A large amount of money was distributed and learned, servers bought, system blocks programmed, but I did not find the necessary results for healthcare and society - an effective e-health system -. Therefore, the Ministry of Health carried out its verification of this project, the results of which we submitted to the Prosecutor General’s Office for consideration, but no criminal offences were found there. Politically, it would have been easier to make everything made, to throw it out, to publicise the responsibility of the money learners and to start everything out of a white page. But would it be national? Would such an approach help the health system because of the loss of years and tens of millions of euros? After long discussions, it was decided to work on improving eHealth and to develop it by replacing obsolete codes with new technologies and helping it to start working as a normal system. I knew it would be hard, but someone had to burn this long boiled and overheated quail. I thank the Prime Minister for his public accountability. The opposition of the Saeima expresses its displeasure, including the state health insurance implementation process and the pace as a formal basis for the demand for my mission. It seems a strange argumentation, given that the members of the Association of the Regions of Latvia themselves voted against the adoption of the Health Care Financing Act, politically against general health insurance. The task of the insurance system, which will start work on 1 September of this year, is to stabilise and increase the funding available to the state-owned health care system. Latvia must grow to at least four per cent of gross domestic product. There is an opportunity and it would be desirable to achieve this as soon as possible. Recently, the Director-General of the World Health Organization (I quote): “There is no single way to universal healthcare. Given the social, political and economic circumstances in their country, every government must find its way. In any case, however, it is based on a strong primary care system with a focus on health promotion and disease prevention. The construction of a universal healthcare system has several dimensions, requiring sustainable funding, skilled staff, good governance and service, full and accurate data management and widespread availability of medicines." When assessing our situation, I can say that, by rewording the Director-General: accessibility is funding, and funding is access. I would also perhaps like to give everything to everyone. However, at present, our economic and also health-care realities are as follows. However, the compromise on public contributions is a success. In fact, none of those who are actually at risk of poverty have been left outside the insurance system. Any Latvian citizen whose insurance contributions will be provided by him or by his employer or, in the case of people included in social groups, by the state of Latvia, will be entitled to a full basket of health care services. In turn, only a few basic services will be available free of charge to employed people who do not make a deliberate contribution and do not pay taxes. They will have to pay the full price for all other medical assistance. The fact that such people could turn out to be quite many and that a party seems politically profitable to regret them does not scare either government, ministry or medical practitioners. Social justice does not mean pretending to people who steal their country and their fellow people. I am convinced that general health insurance, by closely linking the health services available to citizens with their personal responsibility for their social security, will effectively facilitate the exit of workers from the grey economy. The introduction of public health insurance has been carried out in accordance with the plan approved by the government since 1 January of this year, when the Health Care Financing Act came into force. Until 1 May of this year, the necessary legal acts have been developed: regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on the procedure for making health insurance contributions (which was adopted on 3 May); regulations of the National Health Service Advisory Council; regulations of the Cabinet on the establishment of a state health insurance information system to connect databases of many state institutions. A report on the provision of state-paid health care services at state, municipal and private health institutions will be prepared by 1 July of this year. A working group was set up at the Prime Minister's request. It has already met twice, and a draft report is planned to be discussed in the working group on 29 May. According to the decision of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima, an interim report was to be submitted by 1 April, and a letter was sent to the committee on 26 April. Until 1 September, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on minimum medical assistance, the procedure for purchasing and providing services must be adopted. A draft of these regulations has been prepared, and the Ministry together with the National Health Service is working to make regulation as simple and understandable as possible. The final draft rules will be drawn up by 21 May. For evaluation, a minimum package of services has been sent to non-insured persons for key specialists. The work is carried out in full compliance with the government's timetable. According to the provisions of the Health Care Financing Law, until 1 January 2019 a state health insurance information system will be established. It is a database in which information about the status of each Latvian citizen, both insured and uninsured, and the amount of services available will be found by him, as well as by a medical doctor or pharmacist, who will provide him with a state-paid service (of course within the framework of data security). This system, which will be under the responsibility of the National Health Service, will operate in the same way as the register of the Road Safety Directorate or the database on compulsory civil liability insurance. In addition, the system will provide an individual calculation of the contribution to be paid to those people who choose to join general health insurance, and it will also act as an Internet bank, ensuring payment with the beneficiary of the insurance contribution - the Treasury. It is a major information technology project with many components: a system that is technologically complex, because it accounts not only for people who make or, on the contrary, do not make national social security contributions. As set out in the Law on the Financing of Health, the State assumes the obligation to insure the following groups of Latvian residents, in total 21, by guaranteeing them a full basket of state-paid health care services: children under 18 years of age; orphans and children without parental care up to the age of 24 years; persons attending general education institutions, vocational primary education or vocational secondary education institutions, participating in European voluntary work, interest education or youth mobility programmes or being full-time students; unemployed persons who have been registered with the State Agency for Children’s Empowerment; organ donors; persons who have suffered as a result of an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power station, as well as persons suffering from its consequences; persons receiving compensation for the care of a child under adoption during the pre-adoption period; persons receiving a child’s disability allowance or a family allowance; one of the parents raising children under the age of seven or at the age of at least three; persons receiving services at long-term social care and social rehabilitation institutions registered in the social service provider’s register; persons receiving social care grants for social services in favour of a registered social care facility; persons who have been granted access to social services under a social insurance scheme under a registered with a social insurance scheme, a registered with a social care facility, a family protection facility, a health insurance authorisation, a family, a health insurance authorisation, a family, a health insurance authorisation, a health insurance authorisation, a society of social protections, a social protections, a social protections, a social protections, a societys, a societys, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socialssssssssssss, as, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials of socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, a socials, as, as, as, as, as as as as a socials, a socials, a socials as, as, a socials as as, as a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a persons for whom Group III invalidity has been established. Persons who have reached the age set in the Law on State Pensions for granting old-age pensions; persons who receive retirement pensions or special state pensions; politically repressed persons and members of the national resistance movement; monks and nuns of traditional religious organizations living in monasteries; persons who have suffered from violent criminal offences and victims of human trafficking, whose status is certified by a copy of the decision of the leader of the process or by a certificate of the law enforcement authority. The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the period during which these persons are to be regarded as insured persons; persons who receive remuneration for the performance of the duties of a foster family. Many groups. The national health insurance information system will bring together information from 17 public institutions, 119 local authorities and 228 social institutions in order for people belonging to each of these 21 groups to be well-founded and timely registered as state-insured patients. The system with the necessary data and its updating will be provided by the National Health Service, Paula Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Interior Information Centre, Ministry of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, Ministry of Welfare, State Social Insurance Agency, State Commission of Health and Work Capacity Expertise Doctors, Ministry of Finance, State Revenue Service, State Treasury, Ministry of Education and Science, State Education Development Agency, International Programme Agency for Youth, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Defence. What has already been done to set up a national health insurance information system? The laws necessary for its development have been adopted, financing has been found, the process of the public health insurance information system has been analysed, ensuring its compatibility with the databases of all 17 institutions, and the so-called architecture has been built. A description, estimated project basis has been created. Currently, the development of technical specifications is ongoing, and from 1 June programming work begins within two weeks, ordering it in the electronic purchasing system. The testing of individual system blocks will begin on 1 September. There's no reason for any anxiety about the delay. In a few months, general health insurance will start to serve the public interests of Latvia. The insults and exaggerations that have been heard today will no longer seem worth anything. Perhaps we will soon forget about what we have been talking about today. The aspects on which I have informed you today, honourable Members, are just a brief summary of the big blocks. The real amount of the works and their actual list would take a disproportionately large part of your attention and the Saeima sitting. Thank you very much once again to all the Members of the Saeima, who supported the increase in the health budget and voted in favour of laws of sector importance. Thank you to Maris Kučinskis and the government for their trust, collegiality and defence at the most difficult times. Thanks to the staff of the Ministry of Health and in particular to all medical professionals, all employees of the sector who selflessly work, providing highly professional health care for all residents of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U31	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U32	The pen has been forgotten. I don't need any souvenirs from the STECF. Minister for Health of the Republic of Latvia Anda Čakša! Why are you lying here? You lied from the highest station in Latvia! Your speech just said that you were grateful to the Constitutional Court that it had interrupted the extended normal working hours for medical staff from 2019. You're beating something a little bit! The Ombudsman Juris Jansons went against the Saeima, and for four years directly the Ministry of Health was against the abolition of the extended normal working time. It was the Ministry of Health! And you are Minister for Health. It's about the first lies. And now for the second lie. I looked at your CV... Seeing your CV as if you're a reasonable person. Even in the private sector, work experience is quite high. But I am most confused by the decision taken nine days ago in the Cabinet to allocate EUR 1.85 million to some sort of mystical databases, IT specialists and so on. And now they're... Especially those who maybe not very much understand from IT things... I have consulted a lot specifically with IT specialists, programmers, on this issue. And now, the honourable Saeima and all the other interested, very simple mathematics. The Cabinet allocated an additional EUR 1.85 million, bypassing completely any form of budget rule. Actually, it's... And this Excel project... I hope that you have opened it up, because now it is available to the public and you can open it and see what is really written there. This project says that you need 1800 people days. That's the term human days. Human days - this means that 1800 specialists can do this within one working day. Well, that's it! If we have 1800 IT specialists, they have this problem in one day... They'll do it. Well, that's the logic. 1800 - one day. Then it happens: if there's one specialist, then for eight years he's going to solve this problem. Logical, right? Right? But if there are 10 specialists, Mrs. Chachsh, they're going to do it for five months. And now think of five months... One human day is a full-time working day. If these 10 IT specialists will work for five months, from day to day, then what is it about abnormal work volume?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What are they going to do? All personal codes overwrite, new, apologies, Windows figure out? What are they going to do? Because, think about prices now! €1.82 million... And how much does a human day cost this one specialist? 480 EUR... Dear viewers, 480 EUR per day - excluding VAT! That means 60 euros per hour! That means more than Brigman in the month, Kučinskis in the month and Vejonis in the month! And it is earned by IT specialists! And then I have a question for you as a Minister for Health: do you have any idea what the secretaries of your ministry are doing in some way?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That sum is abnormal! It's theft of the people! All this would be done 10 times cheaper in the private sector. Ten times cheaper! And we're not talking about e-health as a project... Like a frantic mother in general, which for 10 years was made up of EUR 14 million... And, as we know, there is still a need for EUR 16 million. In fact, e-health works today only for issuing prescriptions and sick sheets. There is no whole programme for e-health - so that we can know which one has had an analysis and so on; so that we can see all this spectrum; so that we do not... So, sorry, Brigman's birthday... walk around with your disease history at each office and give the doctor... Let those times be over. The task of eHealth was this. And imagine, the Estonians did. The Estonians did it for... Guess! 300 thousand euros. 300 thousand euros! And these are three things I've just told you here where you're just lying. You cannot do this as a minister! There must be new standards in the country regarding moral and political responsibility. The fact that you are Minister after Belevičs and that you have such an inheritance... Well, you shouldn't have agreed! You're thrown into the well, and then you're going to swim in that shit! There's so much manure there that you can't even reach the ground with your feet! And now, in principle, you have to resign... or because of these three named cases. You read the texts written by the Pantérievs for 33 minutes. Maybe you wrote together, I don't know... 33 minutes... You left all the spheres. I just went through three. The rest of the opposition will come back and talk about the others. So, please, Minister, you should take responsibility - politically and morally - for the ministry to pay 480 euros a day to one IT specialist in the country. One IT specialist a day - 480 EUR! How much is the minimum wage in the country?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How could you even sign that? You're not ashamed! You've been working in the private sector. Who can receive this kind of salary? And it is very good that there is now a demand for demission, because otherwise in the Cabinet we could not... We could not speak in the Saeima, because it took place in a closed session at the Cabinet. To support you, please express your distrust to Minister Anda Chakša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, It is time for a break, so we will obviously continue the debate after a break. Please register the call! Please register the Members! Please, check-in result! Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunars Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as the results of the registration are available.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U34	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Gaidis Berzins, Ints Dālderis, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Romanas Miloslavskis, Ināra Mūrniece, Renārs Putniņš... Yes, Edwin Schnore, Zenta Tretjaka and Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U35	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U36	Dear colleagues, The clock is 11 and one minute. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. We've just found out that we already have a quorum. We are continuing the debate. Name in the debate for Member Juris Vilims... Please take the seats, honourable colleagues, so that Juris Viļums can speak calmly and be sure to hear him! The floor in the debate for Member Juris Vilims.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U37	Dear Sir, Ladies and gentlemen, who are present and who are rushing towards the continuation of the Saeima sitting! We are already used to the fact that the government and ministers do not listen to the opposition. So I'll give you the opportunity to listen to what the coalition Member says, because probably what was said in the Fractional Opinions programme a week ago... you do not always listen to what your own colleagues say. Mr Putniņš expressed a very good opinion of the Group's Unity a week ago. Since Mr Putniņš is not in the hall and he has not applied to tell us, to repeat this opinion, then I will try to read it in a short version. ‘ The public explanations given by the Minister for Health Anda Čakša about developments in the sector do not provide a clear and concrete answer to the questions raised by the industry. During the negotiations, it has emerged that the Secretary of State, Mr Lapiņš, does not know health policy planning documents. Often, demands for money for the health sector are justified, but the use of these funds is not clear and whether the objectives have been achieved. For the time being, it is associated with simply getting money. The word "reform" is used everywhere and whenever possible, but it is not the case with real structural reforms. ... is another surprise: a request from the Minister for Health of EUR 1.9 million for the creation of a database based on the new Health Financing Act and the population groups defined there to receive health care. It is strange that this money has been given by Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis out of funds for unforeseen events, because the Health Care Financing Act came to the Saeima already in autumn last year. The law referred to several regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that could not be seen during the drafting of the law, not to the opposition or apparently to the coalition (I say it for my own part), “they were not developed, but were promised that they would be ready soon. In view of this request, it is clear that the Minister for Health Anda Čakša has deceived the Commission and has failed to deal with the work to be done. A Fractional Unity casts doubt on the ability of an existing Minister for Health to carry out his work qualitatively, where there is still a new system. An outstanding example is the introduction of e-health, which was planned as compulsory for all doctors more than a year ago, but was postponed to a year due to justified family doctor protests and planned to start with a pilot project. Instead of complying with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers and implementing the pilot project, the Minister of Health... deceived society and claimed that the system is ready for work and that the “bad” family doctors would not want to work with it... Prime Minister Kučinski said recently that doctors' old computers were guilty, and only a few hours later, the health minister Anda Čakša was forced to call on family doctors to continue to prescribe reimbursement medicines on paper for another two months, as the availability of medicines for patients is already under serious threat. This indicates that the faults and the bad work of the system are not the faults of the doctors, but the system itself, which, as a prodigal, was made compulsory.... E-health is very much needed..., vital for the daily work of doctors. Many hoped that its introduction would result in a significant reduction in the number of paper documents, and that important information could be entered and stored quickly and conveniently in the system. However, its work is so unsatisfactory that family doctors are preparing for repeated protests, because the Ministry of Health does not listen to complaints and does not look at models to improve cooperation. Haos and the constant demand for money are a source of confusion among the people who now have to pay higher taxes in order to raise salaries for medical staff. The promised benefits - such as reduced lines, better quality - are lagging behind. This generally leads to mistrust [...]. So far, people were surprised that we had built the most expensive bridge in the world, but now we will be able to say that we have the most expensive e-health in the world," said Mr Putniņš, a coalition Member, a very harsh health sector and its leader a week ago. The Unity of France has repeatedly called on the ministers of Čakšu to assess whether she is able to manage the sector, to understand the importance of the financial investment and whether any positive results can indeed be expected in the health sector. Have you received any answers? Mr. Putniņš apparently hasn't received them, because I don't see him at the Saeima sitting either. as they say, on the spot. Finally, I must also say that, obviously, the Unity Group does not really know what its ministers are doing in the government, because the Unity Members are outraged at the last time (for the time being, there will be someone else!) cash allocation (contingencies from funds!) The Ministry of Health was followed by UNIFORM Ministers at the Government’s meeting without any reservations. I have already pointed out in the past that, in my opinion, a coalition would only be obtained if Mrs Čakša and all the Cabinets of Ministers themselves, and at least in the current three-party coalition, created a new, professional government that would truly work for the common good of the country, not just to brighten the feathers of their party, which now, in the face of pre-election, is getting even brighter. Ministers have to the extent that they use public money to pay for their own advertising. Mr. Bergmanis calls for participation in radio advertising in Jaunsardze, but until recently Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola on social networks and also radio told about the wonderful new tax reform foam that we have to fix, correct and thirsty here in the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen! Members of the Coalition! Now be a master in your country and make a one-time decision, not cover up every ministry's failings... like a stab with a head in the sand. Today, thank you to Mrs Čakša, who came here and gave her opinion. We got some answers and new promises again. However, Mrs Čakša, the speech that your assistants prepared and your own, without lifting your eyes, was not convinced. There is no reason to believe that we can continue this expensive, state-debt experiment, which will unfortunately have to be returned to our children.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U38	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Janis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U39	Hello, honourable Mr. Dale! Colleagues! It was very interesting to listen to Mr Viļuma's referendum on the views expressed by Member Putniņš. This only means that representatives of coalition parties and Members are free to express their thoughts and talk about their own visions, their own views in a particular case. And that's not bad. I'm a little embarrassed... In the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, we are very often together with Mrs Šimfas and Mr Šics. And especially when different issues are being discussed by the Ministry of Health, it cannot be said that health care professionals or any other specialists in the sector would question what the Ministry of Health is doing at the moment, what the government has dared, to decide on additional funding for health care. Very often, representatives of the Ministry of Health are invited to inform Members about how this additional funding is spent. Is it for the salaries of sisters and doctors or for the reduction of rows, or for the operation of the green corridor, and what is the effectiveness of this corridor? There are also 400 000 additional investigations and consultations and patient access to various other health services; the review and regular monitoring of the reimbursement system; the granting of compensation medicinal products for new diagnoses and the revision of the aid intensity. And, of course, it is important what the doctors themselves say - there is an ever-increasing introduction of innovative and new medications into treatment, which is much less traumatic to patients. I think it is important for all of us that doctors and sisters are no longer Latvian export goods. In previous years, we exported our educated people, medical practitioners, to work in Estonia or to Norway, or to some other country. This has come to an end thanks to the courage to provide additional funding and to channel it to remuneration in this year's health budget. Any cleaning of the house creates dust clouds. The farmers are best aware that these dusts are sometimes very corroding and stinging. And so “dust” in the work of the Ministry of Health, led by Anda Čakša, these decisions that no one dared to take for many years... But these decisions and these actions are necessary so that we do not lose our medicine altogether, do not lose our doctors and sisters, and that the patient who is in difficulty and who is suffering from health problems may receive appropriate care. The question is one: what does the Minister need and existential for this claim of distrust? It seems to me that it is very important for the Association of the Regions of Latvia itself, and through this it is trying to raise its capital, its visibility, as it wants to be a member of the Saeima next autumn. Thank you. Please do not support this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U40	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U41	Hello, brothers and sisters! I understand that the proximity of the elections leads to many different activities. This is the most pointless election campaign activity. I do not see any attached document to confirm or show that the Minister for Health ignores the action plan and does not systematically follow the action plan. There is no plan of action approved by the leaders of the people (Interface: “What is not the case?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) what should be done by the Minister for Health. There is not even a plan of action approved by the leaders of the people to the Cabinet of Ministers, there is no talk about long-term goals, which should be achieved by the state administration apparatus. I understand that only a small number of people in society and Members are aware of the principles of good governance, which is the organisation of work, which is the management of work, which is the planning and control of work. Expression of distrust to the Minister for Health: it is pointless electoral activity and a poor expression of power, without a dry balance. Showing power, which also appears from time to time among us: some of the assigned responsibilities to organise the work of the leaders of the people, so that the interests of the people are truly represented, understand how to give or not give the leader of the people the opportunity to express his views and defend the interests of the voters. Those who are well aware of the principles of good governance understand that ignoring the organisational framework, ignoring the Prime Minister as the immediate Prime Minister of health is to prevent the Prime Minister from carrying out his duties. Those who are well aware of the principles of good governance understand that responsibility for what is done or not done by ministers can be claimed by the Prime Minister. Those who know the principles of good governance understand that we have not set long-term goals to be achieved by the Cabinet of Ministers and approved action plans on how to achieve the objectives, and in fact we have no right to demand anything for the Cabinet of Ministers because we have not commissioned anything to do so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Viļums: “Then go home!” ) Expressing mistrust to the Minister for Health - this is the most pointless election campaign activity. And in conclusion, I would like to say as a father of six children... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: ‘A stranger or six?’ ), six, six. Take an example! Children are greatly affected by their parents ’ psychological emotional condition, and if you want to harm your child, keep your parents under stress. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “Mother needs to live at home with a child!” ) Scientists have found that stress is a cause of many diseases. I would like to ask my dear voters: with what aim do you want to create a pointless state of stress for a little girl? Yes, as a leader of the people, I am not satisfied with the awareness of the public and the Members, who understand health primarily as the treatment of diseases. But by distrusting the Minister for Health, we will not change the public's and Members' conscience, nor will we change our understanding of the principles of good governance. We're good owners in our land!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U42	Thank you. The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U43	Honorable Chairman of the sitting! Minister! In the phrase of the classics, I would like to say: "Dear members of the opposition! Be masters in your heads, for you cannot mix all things together.” What do we hear here? The Minister is being incriminated against what has not been done in 27 years, with little funding and everything that has not just happened. This has been our common cause in all these years! And the government, ministry, the Saeima began to act last summer, because there was no more where to go. We were indeed able to lose a social type, namely health care for everyone - with queues, with difficulties, but for everyone. And it was the Unity that insisted at the time of the tax reform that it was time to increase health funding, because otherwise we will get irreversible changes. That's first of all, we're just a little bit apart from all the things that are in charge of. We had a very useful and sharp conversation yesterday with the ministers, and we asked direct questions. We are concerned about many things, especially how we will succeed in developing the new information system, given the sad 10-year e-health story. These are the concerns and concerns that we have expressed. It is not a cause for disbelief or distrust. We will be following this very closely, using both the Unity mechanism of the Group, the Social and Labour Commission and the Sub-Commission on Public Health. But, honourable members of the opposition, you are against introducing compulsory national health insurance! There's that root. But there is no other way! For our doctors, the 80 million, of which was the salary supplement, the first tangible wage supplement in recent decades! - It's one percentage point of insurance. Tell the doctors you're against! That you don't need to increase the salary for medical staff, you don't need to motivate them to stay in Latvia! So let's be the owners in our heads! Parliamentary supervision of the Ministry's activities must be carried out. As early as next Wednesday, we will once again look at the implementation of eHealth - where there is a mistake, where there are foreign experts and what has happened there at all. This is our weekly work - if not daily work. But to ask the Minister for Health for a debut at the moment - this means stopping the reform of health and healthcare financing; it means ruining our health system and irreversibly losing it to private service providers. That's why neither I nor the Group Unity... We decided yesterday not to support the Prime Minister's resignation. And I call on the honourable opposition not to spend the Saeima's time so useless and nationalistic! - harmful things. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U44	Thank you. The name of the Member, Renar Putnins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “ Renar, don’t be afraid! Tell me what you think! Do not be disobedient to the dictate.’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U45	Dear colleagues, Saeima to the Presidium! Minister! I guess it is no secret in this Chamber that I very critically appreciate the work of the Minister for Health, Anda Chaksch. Why? Because I work as a medical practitioner in the health care system and see it from inside. Many medical staff choose either to remain silent or to go abroad or to leave the medicine altogether. I have an advantage because I have this troupe and I can say almost everything I mean about the management of the health system, its management and so-called reforms. Belēvičs, the former Minister for Health of the ZZS, was forced to resign from his position as Minister for Health for lies. Is Minister Čakša also ready for such a step? Because it seems that her lies are coming across. Yes! E-health is an legacy and an attractive IT project with a long history. Mrs Čakša described the project as a francenstein in her interview. And she planned to introduce this monster at the end of 2016. Only after the protests of the family doctors, followed by a strike, Mrs. Čakša withdrew her intention and left the deadline for implementation for one year. During this year, an eHealth pilot project had to be carried out and the project had to prevent errors and convince doctors that the system was working. This, of course, has not been done. From January 1, the Minister blackmailed this monster to doctors, and no one listened to the doctors. The National Health Service, the Minister of Health of Čakša and later Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, who served as Minister of Health, constantly repeated that the system is all right, that the fault lies with the bad medical and old hardware. The medical patience mayor goes away. The daily work shows various systematic errors. But insults only add to frustration, and the idea of protest and demand for the Chach Demission is expressed. And here, as rescuers, foreign experts suddenly appear, whom no one has seen and which no one can call by name. As a fairy tale, a fairy comes to the villages of the poor pebble and promises to turn the pumpkin into a carriage. Nice! But we don't live in a fairy tale, and miracles don't happen. Anda Čakša cannot also name the amount spent. And even more surprising is the way experts choose – through the electronic procurement system. It is very nice that Anda Čakša has learned about such a system, because the State Regional Development Agency has been willing to transfer the part of the EIS related to medicinal products and medical goods to the Ministry of Health for two years, but the National Health Service is not ready to do so. It would be interesting to know whether these super-experts have also created an estimate of the new population database that brought together people who do not have access to healthcare. There are few positions in them, but they also raise a number of questions. For example, for 350 thousand are purchased discs, which will include a database that is already available at the Latvian State Radio and Television Centre. Anda Čakša can hire PR specialists, but it will not improve the health care system. And a recent study, or survey, shows that more than 80 percent of the population has not seen the so-called reforms of Chaksh. The information report mentioned by the Minister on the reform plan, I want to respond, has been written with only one aim: to learn European money, and it does not include any structural reforms that have been recommended by all foreign experts and by the European Commission in their annual reports. I, as a medical practitioner, do not see any reform. Also, the budget derogation, which was "failed" from the European Union and government, was not fully used. The efficiency and efficiency of the use of money did not allow time for discussion either by the government or the parliament, but only for the last week of December was put in front of the distribution of money, which most took note of and did not object. You can already give money for organ transplantation, but it is clear that the possibilities are limited, because Latvia has not engaged in the exchange of donors and recipients in networks, which significantly increases the possibility to reach the necessary donors' organs. There are 12 offices for training in diabetes, but there are no common standards and guidelines which should be taught and how. It is planned to set up an expensive pathology centre, but new and innovative oncology drugs are still not paid for by the state. At the beginning of the year, there are not even those who have been promised to include certain groups of cancer that have just been listed by Mrs. Čakša. It is planned to buy robots for chemotherapy drugs for millions of years, but it requires special facilities that are not available in hospitals. A large pump was promised to help patients with rare diseases, but good time has already passed, but the Cabinet of Ministers regulations have not yet been submitted. The same is true for other items where it is intended to spend the deficit derogation money. Nor can we forget Ainaži Hospitals and child psychiatry problems, but there is no attention from Anda Chakša. These lists could be continued for an additional hour, because the misunderstandings and omissions in health care can be evaluated... to be measured on a wedding basis. And more and more are accumulated. I will not vote in favour of Anda Chakša's depression (interim: Oooo!) ), because I am a team man and I am aware of the importance of coalition stability. However, I call on Mrs Čakša not to hide behind the coalition agreement and to resign himself from her post as Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U46	Thank you. The name of Member Aija Barch.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U47	Highly honored members of the Saeima Presidium! Dear Members, Dear Members, Let me speak on behalf of myself today, personally, and also express those opinions, its thoughts and the work done in the Saeima by the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and the Sub-Commission on Public Health. I am a little bit confused with Mr Renara Putniņš's speech, because several of the things he spoke about have already been looked at and will continue to be dealt with by the Subcommittee on Public Health. I will probably now have reason to ask the Chair of the Subcommittee on Public Health - why, in line with the parliamentary roll of order, the Alliance has not yet been informed that its honourable Member is very rarely seen there? It is not surprising, therefore, that several things are unknown and incomprehensible. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Because he works at the hospital, Barča!” ; intermediate: “Then you need to choose!” ) In the case of a request for a mission... Today, I have heard superficial criticism, with no serious, in-depth analysis, of the motivation given to the demand for a mission today, my fellow Members. I have not heard any serious proposal. If we have a bad attitude, what can we do to make things better? Unfortunately, I didn’t hear it even very carefully. Nothing else to do and where to get additional funding. — Dep. I.Rijana: “Ministry of Finance!” )... All the more so because a judgment of the Constitutional Court has just been made, and the judgment of the Constitutional Court is not subject to appeal, but enforceable, therefore, starting from January 1, 2019, we must assume that much more money will be needed for the wages of medical persons. We base the Ministry of Health on all sides. But that's our job! Only by drawing up laws and cooperating, I think we can do good things. And if someone thinks that the works that have been done for today are not good enough, then be so kind and speak very specifically in this room - tell me what else to do. Because “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”... We remember, colleagues, this draft law, too, until our final vote, had a rather thorny way. Both the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia were for a good time imperative against this one extra percentage for national social insurance. Just like with the new Health Care Finance Law, where, if we remember, and if we don't remember, then be so kind and open the transitional rules, where the Ministry of Health and the whole Cabinet of Ministers have very specific tasks on the issue, which is the subject of quite a discussion today. This is additional funding from unforeseen sources. I think it is perhaps a mistake for the Cabinet of Ministers to record it in a single decision. Because you have already heard the Prime Minister's report and the information that has been given to us today. There's no one for the Ministry of Health, comma, how many million there. They are distributed to the State Social Insurance, the State Employment Agency, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and so on. And then we have to talk about these very specific things, what then the State Social Insurance Agency... a database will be specially prepared to be sent to e-health... And for all the others... Indeed, we have spoken and discussed this very seriously within the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and within the Sub-Commission on Public Health. And, honourable colleagues, there will be further requests for funds for unforeseen events (Dep. I.Zariņš: “No doubt!” ), and these will be requests for money to be given to oncology. And I am absolutely sure that all three members of the Centre of Understanding (Dep. I.Zariņš: “There is no Member of the Centre of Reconciliation!” ), which work very seriously in our commission, will certainly support it. And similarly, I think that if it were to be voted on here in the Saeima, Mr Zarins would also support it with both hands. Because already this year it is necessary to buy new hardware (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “The old ones have not yet been turned on, they need new ones!” ) to launch new investigations next year, and this is about oncological disease in our boys of different ages. What can we achieve now, a few months before the current parliamentary elections, when we ask for the resignation of the Minister, in substance, or can we achieve it? I think absolutely nothing. Let us only cause confusion, just ignorance, and the process will be stopped. In my opinion, this request for resignation is not personal, but, my fellow Members, I understand it as populism. If in this way we want to address people in Latvia without telling us what we can do here in Parliament in cooperation with the government that we have created, it is not serious. I call on my fellow Members to abstain from the vote on democracy. I will certainly vote against such a request.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U48	Thank you. Name of Member Līga Kozlovsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U49	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Dear Members, I want to say the same as Renārs Putniņš: I am also a medical practitioner. And I'm also a family doctor. And I remember that a year ago, on April 16, there was a large assembly of family doctors and specialists at the Gailezer Hospital in the Conference Hall of Gailezers, which discussed the increase in funding for health care. The Minister of Health also attended this meeting. And I was on the other side of the barricades. I was the one who invited colleagues to take an active part in the campaign - the family doctor strike - at the time. At that time, as you know, nurses in hospitals and doctors on-call at night took part in various campaigns, and they asked for overtime to be paid. At that time, our medical union was also very active in these actions for the increase in funding. And I want to say that at the beginning of the family doctor strike, which was also actively supported by the Latvian Association of Rural Family Doctors, we talked very actively with the Minister of Health and the Prime Minister in parallel. And for the first time, for the first time, forgive me! - in the history of the independent state, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the health ministers, the Prime Minister and the non-governmental organisation on an increase in funding for health care as a whole, while at the same time proportionately increasing funding for primary health care. One of the points said it too... Family doctors who participated in the failed e-health project for several years were those who called for the delay of the e-health project to start operating as a pilot project from 1 January 2018. This was also achieved on the basis of this agreement. At the same time, colleagues, I would like to thank you very much, Members of the Saeima, for your understanding when we adopted the health budget at the end of the year. We were all involved there. An increase of 200 million was disastrously needed to start the basic things that were not done - forgive me! - 27 years ago, our first government, the God-Man government, said clearly and lightly: "Everyone in the budget will have enough money, except for health care. That's 50 percent!' With these 50 percent of healthcare funding, we have lived for 27 years. And thank you for understanding that, for the first time in our lives, we have 3.6 percent of GDP, and in 2020 we intend to increase to only four percent, although in other countries, as the Minister said, there are nine percent of GDP. And this decision, this discharge, has enabled us to fulfil some of the promises made to our doctors and to our patients in the programme, in this project. And one... I can say exactly like Renārs Putniņš: I am a practitioner, a family doctor, to the hair roots and to the hair ends, because I have 2500 patients registered. In organising my work, I worked with them on a day-to-day basis, including Saturdays and Sundays, and I use that terrible francenstein, as our e-health has been called. And I want my dear colleagues to say that. I don't know how Renārs Putniņš, let's say, beyond his hard work, can do e-health (Dep. H.Abu Mary: “He doesn’t work!” )... I work with e-health every day, yeah... I work day-to-day, and I can say that: unfortunately, only two positions work - e-prescription and sick leave. The Minister has reported with her entire team that recycling is taking place this month and the following month. Unfortunately, we are not IT specialists, we are users. And we only have two options. We, for example, are calling for this Frankenstein... Let us say, with tomorrow or tomorrow, just break the contract, and we stop working on this project. So from next day we just write off those 16 million. Well, we've also written off OIK, I understand, 100 million or more of salt. But, colleagues, I want to say that e-health is a helper. When I work in real day-to-day, I can tell you: if e-health works, it's an assistant. My patients get medication at the time and place, I can do it much faster and easier and at the same time accept and advise much more patients. Now, unfortunately, there are problems... I hope that they will be addressed. And, with regard to the increase in money for the database, my fellow Members, I would like to say that (Mr Laimdota Straujuma will not be allowed to lie): yesterday we listened to the national database at the Sustainable Development Commission. Such a database is also necessary, for forgiveness, for the development of NAP. However, in fact, colleagues, there is no such database. There are fragmented databases. And maybe this database, which is now intended... I don't know, I'm not an IT specialist, and I... ( Dep A. Kaimiņš: “We don’t need to talk... !” ) Yes! All right! All right! I left you a question about the money, Mr. Neighbours! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk!” ) Yes! For your money! ( Interface: “Artus! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U50	Don't talk to the grass, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U51	Yes! But I let you speak if. So e-health must be said that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and the responsibility of the Saeima Members - how much we will follow up on how things go. Colleagues! I would also like to say what has actually improved over this very short time. Again I talked not only as a member of the Saeima, but also as a medical practitioner. Colleagues, the Green Corridor works! When I identify this suspicious diagnosis for my patient, the suspicion of cancer - any localization cancer - I, my colleagues, within five to ten minutes, can call the Latvian Oncology Centre and apply for advice. It's never been before. For countervailable medicines. In terms of reference prices, colleagues, we can prescribe the cheapest medicines to any patient. Naturally, yet a long way is possible, so that we increase the compensation to a greater extent, for example, for people with cardiovascular diseases. For innovative medicines. Colleagues, I would like to say that hepatitis C patients receive specific treatment from this year, and I can claim this as a practitioner. I am responsible for this. In the case of HIV patients, the Minister mentioned the figures, but I speak as a medical practitioner. And, my fellow Members, I would like to end by drawing your attention to the fact that our healthcare suffers from this malignant disease - low blood pressure, acute low blood pressure. In addition, funding for health care. And in reality, it depends only on us - whether we, the Saeima, will be responsible for this and will be involved and co-responsible for the increase of this funding from next year and also for the coming year. Diagnosis is severe. And not all diseases can be cured by homeopathic means. You can, of course, try to treat with the resources of the people - for example, find a scapegoat. But whether it will produce the expected effect is difficult to say. It is possible that Saulcerīte will have to stay on the Mount of Glass, since his father’s sons are very many and are struggling, but we will probably not find the true Antilles so easily. With this similarity, my fellow Members, I want to end this small presentation, the speech. Let us be co-responsible for our health care, and at the moment, the health ministers will call for these hard work to continue, not to be dissipated, but, on the contrary, to continue! And we're there and follow with us! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U52	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U53	Hello, colleagues! Yesterday, some politicians from the Association of the Regions of Latvia visited Domburs, and in answer to the question of the frequent request of ministers for a democracy, Mr. Smiltēna said: “The request of frequent demisions to the Association of the Regions of Latvia as an opposition party is the only instrument to bring the issues to light.” And what is the opposition's main problem at the moment? We were answered by party ratings published on 11 May. There we see clearly that the Latvian Association of Regions has a rating of 2.8 percent. And that means that, for the rest of the time, we will still see a number of populism-spoken draft laws and a request for demission coming from them. As Mrs Šimfas said in her speech, this is an existential question. During the renewed period of Latvia, health ministers have changed 19 times. There have been farmers, economists and even veterinarians in this position. For three years, this Ministry had been eliminated as a class. And all these years of independence, no government and no minister have had the courage to stick to any serious reforms on this issue. There have been extremes, yes, the purchase of super-expensive equipment by hospitals, which must be closed today, a minister walking around for three and a half years with a master plan, which he did not see in his life, and all these years of medical problems have accumulated, and I apologise for having a pile of manure in a further corner, from which everyone just avoided and walked around. And when someone starts moving this pile of manure now, logically, with good things, of course, there comes an unbearable smell, I'm sorry. And the greatest smell now, of course, is the e-health mentioned several times. But does anyone else remember that the e-health conversation started 15 years ago? Its implementation started around 2009, and in fact, a process is under way that could be compared to an old Zaparozhec one trying to push skin seats, navigation and getting in touch with more. Of course, not this minister's failure or mistake is what is happening with e-health. The error probably started when the government then chose the e-health implementer, and let us call it the right name: Lattelecom, a company that is partly state-owned. And maybe it is time for the country to ask why this company's leading employees receive salaries that are even incomprehensible, and maybe they should start paying back something for the whole measure. I agree with that. ( But A.Kaimiņš, "But who is the ruling party?" ) This is my idea, which I have presented at the moment, and the government could take this into account. Of course, as the previous speaker said, it would be logical to put an end to this system with tomorrow, to put an end to it and to start from the end. But unfortunately, Mrs Kozlovsk, we will not write down 16 million. We will have to return these 16 million to the one who gave them, that is, to the European Union. The fact that the Ministry of Health has received criticism from some members of the coalition party is, of course, healthy. This shows that there is a diversity of views. We are listening to this because it is just as critical at the moment that we are dealing with the reform initiated by Shadursky in the training of six-year-olds. There too, I'm sorry, another kind of e-health can come. So let's talk about it again. The Minister himself told us here in detail what has been done and where there are still problems. That is why, when we vote in favour of her depression, we must all answer the question: is medical care, its availability and the queued situation worse than two years ago, or is there more positive change? Fortunately, we will never know how it would have been, if this government had not dared to bring about changes in the health sector, and perhaps it is good that we will not know that. I therefore call on you not to support this depression.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U54	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U55	Hello, colleagues! Head of sitting! In my hands, I seem to hold one of the most fresh documents of the World Health Organisation - the rank on health care systems. Latvia is in 105th place, and we are ahead of countries such as India, Pakistan, Nigeria, Myanmar and Chad. Iraq, Bulgaria, Libya, Bangladesh, Macedonia and Lebanon are better than we do. We are far from those countries where health systems are organised. In our view, the Minister for Health must be released and released immediately, before irreversible damage has been caused, the threat to public health by the Minister, I would say, because of the uneconomic and non-professional activities. Significant additional resources have been allocated which the Minister is unable to use in a useful way. Even the situation gets worse, there is no improvement, and both patients and doctors are currently dissatisfied. It seems that only Mr. Kučinski is satisfied. Partly, other coalition parties... You have to ask, why? This gives the impression that public and public health are being undermined by a failed public health policy. State policy - this is in the interests of power parties. If the Minister is not released today, the coalition will have shown its true face: it does not work for society and weakens the country. Here are some arguments. But there is more to mention. As a medical doctor, I said with full confidence that the health situation in the country was critical and that the existing minister was unable to sort it out. This is about the health and life of the people of Latvia, life and disability. We have one of the highest co-payments of patients in the world and in Europe: 40 percent. An indicator of the inability to arrange health care is expensive medicines. Many of them are much more expensive than in the neighbouring republics. There is a huge outflow of doctors, and money supplements have not resolved and encouraged the preservation of essential specialists in Latvia. Stupendous lines at doctors for investigations. Patients with rare, severe diagnosis receive help late or not at all or forced to collect donations. Some rare diseases are not identified at all. As an example for the third year in a row, I will mention the unfortunate patients of cystic fibrosis, people who die in their youth because the disease is not being monitored. Unavailability of medical services in regions due to the optimisation of the hospital network. The availability of rapid assistance for rural people is also deteriorating. There is a privatisation of health care, the transfer of many services to private institutions. At the same time, as a bad thing, we are getting rid of the proposal that all services should be transferred to public authorities and local authorities, and only if they are not dealt with, to the public sector. Hence, it is sometimes dangerous, costly, and ineffective to stay in medical institutions. I would also like to say a few words about the so-called face or false insurance that is now being carried out. It's not insurance. It is the collection of additional money - one percentage point -. Another issue that is very worrying is the elimination of professionals from healthcare institutions. For example, Ms. Slokenberga, the Chief Doctor of the Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital, a respected doctor, was released as an inadequate post. She had reduced the hospital’s external debt from eight million to two, but was dismissed: “You’re no longer right for us!” And the debt grew to 14 million in the next year, and we gave it through the appropriations. Then, when Aija Mežsarga, the Head of Health Inspection, discovered with her people a very rough... In two hospitals, a written record of half a million, and the issues were passed on to the prosecutor’s office, she was released from work and transferred to the moor as an employee. These are the phenomena of its personal policy! And the last one that concerns us is talking about these professional and staff assessment cases. As a crust in the face, as a glass of cold water for the medical community was an insult to the inability to use e-health and the ministry's thank-you article for these, I would say, the e-health defilers - Mrs Daina Murmane-Umbrashko and the project supervisor. Now we're... You can't give it! Maybe there should be a three-star order with the Saeima's decision to grant, if? That is why I am calling for a vote in favour of the resignation. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U56	Thank you. Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U57	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen! Some remarks to what Members of the heading have said earlier. First. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we have such a long debate today, a long report from the Minister for Health, only proves once again that the problem is really deep. Next. Dear representatives of the position! Please keep one opinion, as you say, because, on the one hand, you say that the criticism of Mr Putniņš is that it is a diversity of opinion, that is to say, an expression of democracy, but on the other hand, the criticism of the opposition is only populism and the campaign of pre-election. Don't come together! Next. You are asking us to say what to do, how much funding to spend, what problems to tackle and what programmes to support. When we asked the Minister for Health at the very end of last year for her to say in concrete terms the positions where these 16 million will be spent, we did not have information. Controversy again! Let's go. You are calling for concrete proposals in the health sector as well as in other areas, but you are already ignoring them! Let us also say that the requests that will be made are from the BEAR and our side. You all rejected them. All the opposition says is populism and campaign of pre-election. Demission... At the moment, you are really forcing us, at least in some way, to make you think and to put you in a position to answer the questions you have asked. I would really ask Mr Dūklavs and many others for him to say no to all, to the whole government. And that's what I've said on several occasions, and for every one of them, if necessary, I'll see for at least 15 minutes. And by the end. You say that now, three months before the next parliamentary elections, now that there is nothing else... Well, let me work until the end of Mrs. Chaksh, yes. He came back to work to finish what he had begun. Mr Putniņš criticised this long, and he says in the end: well, yet he will vote against this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! The Union of Greens and Farmers! National Association! CONNECTION! If you stand so close to each other's thoughts and defend each other so strongly, be courageous: create one common list for the next, 13th Saeima, elections and start to society so that the voter appreciates your work!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U58	Thank you. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U59	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, I really tried to refrain, not to talk, but what Karl Sergeant said about education problems - six-year-old training - forced me to come to the platform and to say (Internary.) ... Yes, yes, yes, to express my opinion on what I have heard today. We have lies, very big lies, and then there are statistics. Listening to what the Minister for Education and Science, Shadursky, said from this troupe, and today Mrs Chakša - very comprehensive figures, there is a valid question: if these statistics are a report on the work done, or if they could nevertheless serve as a basis for criticism that much has not been done. Ask any Riga residents on a random basis on the street, just the opposite: “Do you feel the improvement of health care?” The usual answer is: “No!” If one boy has an earache, he will go to his family doctor who tells you to go to a specialist. Called and found out that the line of the specialist is that his ear could be looked at in a month, at best three weeks. Well, that's the reality! Now we hear that the Ministry plans that the Emergency Medical Service and other medical institutions with road transport can do without drivers... Go on. Mrs Barch, the idea is as follows: if there is a wrong call, then there will be a fine of EUR 60 for this unwarranted call. This is a source of great reflection and indignation. How a man can determine whether... Is that so? If I give my mother rapid medical help when she is ill, I will say: “I’m sorry, it’s the responsibility of a family doctor. This must be addressed to him!” And you'll have to pay those 60 euros! That makes me confused. How do we even organise medical care?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Many ministers mentioned by Karl Sergeant, who were not professionals... Yeah, but who then appointed them, dear, good? From the street, did one patient come and appoint them? You are not ashamed at all, to be honest. The same applies to education. I can name you all the ministers who did not respond to this professional assignment. ( Therabs: “On the subject! For the depression!’ ) I am speaking on the subject! I ask: how can it be here that you say that those ministers were not adequate? And why is there no condemnation of the money spent? Why do we have to hear from the troupe here that if we do not do anything here in full, then we will have to give back the money from the European Structural Fund - 16 million... Is that so? I'm sorry. How can that be? What are these words in general? I have a question. Why can no minister solve the question of the prices of medicines? We hear that in other countries like Bulgaria, medicines are twice, three times cheaper than in Latvian pharmacy. We cannot solve this issue because, it turns out, it is about a commercial law that cannot be violated. But the people don't have money to pay for these expensive drugs. People don't take its medicine, unfortunately. And the last thing I want to remind you. You don't have to say that we've improved the situation. 200 million were given to us, and our nurses now have a salary of between EUR 1000 and EUR 1500. Well done! Just great! Why does the teacher have only 710th and minus taxes? Why? ( Interface: “Because of coming autumn! ” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “Why is autumn? I don’t understand!” ) Because if you can’t, it turns out, to improve medical care, drive away nurses. We have achieved that young people do not choose the teaching profession and do not want to learn to be teachers. Why? Well, that's the answer! If nurses do not leave now, teachers will leave. Who's gonna work in schools? And that's why I don't really like to remind... then talk about the whole country. For the whole country! Why can I solve my problem with a private doctor? For a lot of money, I can afford it! How much can a peripheral mother afford to do ultrasonography? She has to wait three to four months! Let us not talk about other acute things! To make hip operations... We have to wait for half a year again before the state gives something. I call upon you not to finally use statistics and not to praise your colossal works. The Minister had to tell her here what makes it difficult for her to get this, forgive me, to reduce chaos in medicine. I'm not talking about spending money that Neighbours said exactly about. You can say that he lied. — Dep. A.Kamiņš from the grass: “But he didn’t lie!” ) He did not lie, it turns out. Why is this issue not resolved in the public prosecutor's office so that these cash flows, which are very large, can be investigated? Thank you for your attention. I call on you to vote... ( Dep A. Kaimiņš: “On the Demision! ” ) That's absolutely right!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U60	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U61	Colleagues! On the style and shape of the Ministry of Health. Four blocks. First. On the financing of health care. I think, colleagues, we all remember the end of 2016. The main discussion was about what model of health care financing or insurance to choose – private health insurance model, funded or mixed by the state budget. Mrs Barch's home with her head, remembers well. And if we are talking about shape and style, then it was decided with the MK's protocol decision that there would be an increase in the health budget and that it would be found in the context of the new tax reform. A new tax reform package is coming - I have read and seen those big long sheets myself - but there is nothing at all about funding for health care. There is nothing that was promised at the end of 2016. It's a style. It was at that time that my first question in the Coalition Council was - but where are the promises? Where is all this going? There was no cent! Where was the Minister's strong insistence, the insistence? That was the attitude, well, if there was no money, nothing, nothing. But the result was finally achieved. In the last months of the year, we adopted the Health Care Financing Act. It has been half a year, and can someone today make a clear statement, or is it clear to anyone exactly how many people are left out of access to health care? The question is, how can you make such an important decision, a law, without knowing what the impact on society is? Block two. E-health. We know historically that millions have been spent, but how does this eHealth system work? We know it's bad. What's wrong? I agree, there's a legacy of the past. But what was the fault of the ministry’s rhetoric? The first version - doctors are too old and do not know how to use the system. The second version - no, but not doctors are too old, but computers are too old and unable to operate this system. When experts are involved, it turns out that the error is still in the system itself. And now it's all to be reprogrammed. Was it a respectful attitude toward those who are working hard for the wages they have in their health? It was hoped that 13 million would be enough. Clearly, it was not enough, it was not of good quality. But there was hope that a new policy would come that taxpayers' money would be saved in the future. It's nothing! Let's get a new picture in. Within one day, you find two million euros to force the system to negotiate - that is the definition. The price is so expensive! Colleagues, unwillingly, but I'll agree... Where's Mr. Neighbour? We calculated something similar. Here, too, may be smelling after corruption. Block Three. Private and public medicine. At present, as we know, the proportion of private medicine’s health costs is already 30 percent. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “Smilten, speak faster!” ) The real situation - rows, wait, but the solution is. At private you have an opportunity to get a service already today. Perhaps at the expense of the budget quota, but it is very likely that we simply have to pay off. Oh, you don't have any money? I'm sorry! Wait three, six months. That's the system. Long-term discussion... and was incorporated into the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, Mrs Barča, the proposal (not that it is ideal, but perhaps correct) that state budget resources should prioritise public health institutions and this system. And only if and only if the State is unable to perform these functions, is unable to perform these functions to the appropriate extent or at the appropriate time, funding is diverted to private or foreign countries. Where does it all go? Some ministers ran each day (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Hi, man, you sat alone, there you were all fine!” )... No, at that time, Neighbouring, I didn't sit down. A.Kimiņš: “You sat there like a little bunny!” )... At that time, ministers ran and, in one day, gathered up a meeting on Thursday, it seems that all was taken out. It was December! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš' intermediate calls.) Neighbours, learn how to use the calendar!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U62	Dear colleagues, Now somehow try each other's elements to respect at least publicly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U63	What is happening now with this discussion, my fellow Members? What was the purpose of it: to dig it out of the law, to take it away from the Saeima, as far as possible? They loaded them in the car and took them at least to the Ministry of Health. From Jēkabs Street. That this issue should not be discussed and that everything should go on as it has been. In particular, the healthcare system is slowly moving towards private medical care. And this working group has been set up with the sole aim of getting this debate away from the Saeima, because the Saeima should not say anything about it. Discussion, discussion and debug. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate calls.) So that, at least until the elections, the debate and this idea can be wiped out and discarded. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “No more!” ) And the last one. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It was the last one! That's it!” ) The question of closing the Aluksne hospital may be symbolic. We understand very well how we tried to destroy the Aluksne hospital. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate calls.) An attempt was made to destroy it! And Mr Brigmanis knows how many hours we spent discussing and fighting about these issues and what you were opposed to avengeing that we raised that issue. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: ‘Aday or a day!’ ) In the Northern Middle Land, patient flows are diverted in this way to Gulbene and Prize hospitals, which were privatised at the time; they are private. Perhaps unlawfully privatised. And the inhabitants of Gulbene have already written a lot of applications to KNAB and the Public Prosecutor's Office (both at the time and in the recent past). Some accidentally, under the leadership of the Prize and Gulbene Hospitals, there is a person who gives advice to the Minister of Health for years. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Publish! That's right! It's a Trupove!” ) Severe negotiations and protests made it possible for the inhabitants of Alūksne, Ape and surrounding regions to obtain medical care within a period of so great importance. But what happens next? Is that story over? It's not over, colleagues! A second level of formalisation was left to align European funds and to analyse them in the right directions. Simply increased the number of levels. And the last one. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It was the last one! What you lie!” ) Is the issue of the processing of the Gulbene and Prize Hospitals... Please make sure you order. The Gulbene and Prize hospitals always run for 90 or up to 100 percent of this quota, forcing patients to go to the Aluksne hospital where they are overcrowding... And the Aluksne hospital gets a loss. However, this guarantees profits for privatised hospitals in Gulbene and Balvos. These are some of the questions I wanted to ask Minister Chakša, which would require precise and clear answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U64	Thank you. Before we give the floor to the next speaker in the debate, I informed you that the Saeima Bureau has received a request from Mr Abu Meri, Mr Dintaras, Mr Brigmanis, Mr Sergantas and Mr Zariņš to continue today's Saeima sitting without interruption until all the issues are examined. Do Members have objections? ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for the parliamentary session to continue without interruption until all issues are discussed! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's 12, it's not. The sitting of the Saeima shall be held without interruption. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U65	Hello, colleagues! I am listening to this debate and I understand that we will have to have a couple of moments of truth so that we do not have health care in the same way as the OIC. (Applause) And it is very good that the Minister for Health has applied for this debate because I have very specific questions that I hope she will answer here from the tribunal. And now very specific questions. You've been talking about how health funding is learned, how much it's spent. Unfortunately, we're talking very little about how it's spent... And in order to really spend it as efficiently and as properly as possible, e-health is a very important instrument in which, unfortunately, this functionality... how we can track, money is still not foreseen. You called e-health a francenstein, for which the responsibility of the current National Health Service is not justified. In fact, we should already say that it is not even the francenstein that has been made. Only its separate organs are made. And my question is this: if you say that it is not right now to ask and blame the National Health Service, please call me, specifically, whose official is responsible for this francenstein, as you call it! Please come here and tell me from the pub! If you are the Minister for Health responsible for this area, tell him who this official is. I have investigated this issue in a number of requests, I know these officials. I would very much like you to name them here from the platform. Why did I ask? Because you have just decided about almost two million going to the so-called new database for health insurance. There, we can see the same officials who will be taking over this money again with the same success. We will have a story about this. And I very much hope that you will answer. Next question. A few days ago, on television, you said that international experts had found a major mistake in one of the e-health modules that hindered the functioning of the entire system. I call on you, Minister for Health: come here and tell me from the pub, which are these foreign experts, who they have discovered and how much it has cost us, because you are still avoiding to say it. Don't let you lie to the public. Because, as you know, your predecessor, Mr Belevič, the Minister for Health, once said very intelligent words for which he took full responsibility - that small lies cause great mistrust. I hope you come here and call all these things or you will confess to your lies and be as honourable as your predecessor. Otherwise, I have to remember the Latvian proverb... who's lying, it's not just lying. And in this regard, I want to ask you about the Stradini hospital body - about the new building that is going on there. There must be a coordinated project in June in order not to lose ERDF funding. Will this be done? Come and tell me from this platform whether this project will be coherent and whether you assume full responsibility as Minister for Health that the new A2 body of the Stradins Hospital will be designed and built in time and within the foreseen budget. Talking about this budget. If you remember, you defended this budget at the Cabinet meeting... He defended the estimate of the project A2 of the Stradins Hospital Corps, which was approved. And that was EUR 1500 per square metre. The Governing Board then rightly argued that such an estimate could not be made. So they're fired. If we now look at what the Ministry of Economics has just told us... They say they're building rental houses for 2500 euros per square metre. The price is almost one and a half times higher. I cannot understand now: is it your absolute incompetentness that you do not understand what you are talking about, or is the Minister of Economics doing the next phase, as is the case with OIC? And how is that really happening? Do you work as a single team or as a single gang that has simply divided its... has divided the places near the crib and each looks just on the unhappiness and each other... I'm just trying to get the other one's in. And that's why you're covering each other here today and you're not going to vote for this depression. Mr. Brigmann! I have more questions for the Minister for Health. If you could just make sure that she can listen, because it looks like he doesn't have a chance for the minister... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Brigmanis talks with the Minister of Health A.Čakšu.) Head of sitting! Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U66	Yes, the chairman of the meeting is not allowed to speak. But, Mr Brigmanis and Mrs Chakša, let us respect the speaker, because the speaker really makes the points to the Minister for Health!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U67	Yes! So if you don't forget... To avoid forgetting, we have so far asked specific questions. So, about these foreign experts. Who were these experts? What exactly did they find? How much money has been paid for? Go on. E-health officials. Who has created this Frankenstein? Who is responsible for this? Next. We are now talking about this hospital corps of Stradins. Are you taking political action... Do you assume, as a Minister for Health, the responsibility for the new corps being designed and built in due time, and for the budget that has been agreed upon, which you have submitted to the Cabinet? And, as you know, that's what it was like there was EUR 1 500 per square metre. Go on. I'm interested in... From this troupe, have you complied with the court ruling on illegally released Health Inspection Officers, the Head of Messarga and her Deputy? Is this fulfilled? Have you apologized and paid the court’s moral compensation? If you have paid this moral compensation, what money has it been done? Did you do so from your own resources or from taxpayers? Go on. ( Milestones.) I'm interested in... Explain how you currently ensure the management, management and management of these IT projects? Why are these working groups not on the premises of the Ministry of Health, but on the premises of a private cantor? What is the purpose of doing so? And don't you have anything to do with this private cantor where it happens and who's on Elijah's street? Go on. What do we know about IT matters? I have to face them professionally. Many healthcare institutions have local IT solutions. These solutions record the changes made, but do not record who has viewed these entries. Colleagues! The General Data Protection Regulation will enter into force immediately on 26 May. How do you intend to ensure that this regulation is implemented? Are you responsible for this being done? 26 May - General Data Protection Regulation... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Will IT solutions relating to healthcare ensure this? And finally. Colleagues of Unity, do you not see, for yourself, how hypocritical it is that you refrain from supporting this request for duty, on the pretext that there will then be a stop on the health-care-related processes and that you may be putting something at risk? How much time has it been left before the elections? May is over. June, July, August, September - less than five months. If you have not noticed, I would remind you that the Minister for Health was on decree leave very recently. Did the industry collapse? On the contrary! At this time, I have heard a lot of optimistic statements about how well everything is developing with regard to healthcare. Maybe the other way around... Is that so? If you really care about it, then you should reconsider your position. Or admit that you are doing it, not because you care about your health, but because you care about your place at the shelter. You've divided it all up to cover each other and to be able to keep going, like it is happening ( Dep. A. Berzins: “Aaa!” ) with OIC. If you ask, what would be the benefit if you support this demand for depression, you will make one child in Latvia more happy by providing motherhood. I therefore call for support for this request. Thank you. ( Milestones.) (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U68	Thank you. Name to the Minister for Health Anda Chakša, for the second time. ( Interface: “Maybe we shouldn’t come anymore? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U69	Good afternoon! And I need it! I need it! Why? To thank you for the active critical remarks that I have heard today. And I have to say: if health were not so important, probably the debate would not be that long. This debate is very important for every citizen of Latvia because health really matters for everyone. I have heard very clearly those questions that I might not have spoken about in my first - longest - speech, and all the answers that were not included there will I prepare. I am also ready to go to the political groups and to explain everything individually. Today, I would like to ask you to support me so that I can remain in this position, given that I take full responsibility for all the decisions that I take, and I really do everything to ensure that people in Latvia have quality and access to healthcare. So thank you for this criticism.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U70	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U71	Minister of Health, I ask you to answer for your words and answer your questions. So - which specifically are these foreign experts, mentioned before society as a whole? What exactly have they discovered, and how much has it cost? Which official is responsible for the fact that e-health is such a Frankenstein? Do you assume responsibility for the completion of the Stradins hospital corps in due time: design, construction and budget, which you approved? Go on. In particular, what is your decision that was annulled by a court ruling with regard to health inspection officials? Have you apologized? Have you paid compensation? And what money have you done? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Watch the request!” ) You do not need to prepare for this, you can come here and answer all these questions immediately, because these are questions of your competence. As Minister for Health, you believe that you have not only formal law, political rights, but also moral rights. Otherwise, it turns out that you are not even worthy of the previous Minister for Health. I look forward to answering these questions. And the whole society is waiting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U72	The debate is closed. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “For distrusting the Minister of Health Anda Čakšai”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 49, for - 2. No decision has been taken. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Read, please, all!” ) The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Vineta Mazures as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U73	Hello, dear colleagues! On 16 May this year, a draft decision “On the approval of Vineta Mazures as a judge of a district (city) court” was discussed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima. Vineta Mazure was born in 1978. In 2007, she graduated from the University of Latvia, obtaining a qualification as a lawyer, and in 2009 she received a Master of Social Sciences in Law at the University of Latvia. On 18 July 2015, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Vineta Mazuri as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered her to perform the duties of a judge in Riga district court. Judge Vineta Mazure will have served as a judge for three years on 17 June 2018. She participated in 45 seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia for her qualification, as well as in training organised by the Judicial Administration and the Latvian Municipal Training Centre for the Protection of Children's Rights. Vineta Mazure views all categories of civil cases, applications under civil procedure, applications and materials to be examined outside court hearing, as well as complaints about decisions of institutions received in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia. In his statement about judge Vinetas Mazuris, the Chair of Riga District Court pointed out that the quality and results of proceedings are good. Vineta Mazure can organize her own and compositional work. The procedure before the Court of Justice shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of procedure. She has good cooperation with the judge's assistant and secretary; she has felt the work of the team. The opinion of the College of Civil Cases of the Riga Regional Court indicates that rulings of judge Vineta Mazures have been drawn up in good legal language and in accordance with the requirements of procedural legal norms. The Judicial Qualification Committee has assessed the positive professional activity of the Riga district court judge Vineta Mazures and delivered a positive opinion for the approval of the judge without limitation of the term of office. In view of the above, the members of the Legal Commission of the Saeima have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to confirm Mr Vineta Mazuri as a district (city) court judge without any limitation on his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U74	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Vineta Mazures as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Irina Norkusas as a judge at the Land Register Division of the district (city) court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U75	On 16 May this year, a draft decision “On the approval of Irina Norkusas as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima. She was born in 1981, graduated in 2010 from the Baltic International Academy, obtaining a lawyer's qualification, and in 2011 she also received a professional master's degree in private law. On June 6, 2013, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed him as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered Irina Norkusa to perform the duties of a judge in the Land Registers of the Riga City Vidzeme Suburban court. Irina Norkus will have served as a judge for three years on 12 June 2018. She participates in five seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia for her qualification. Irina Norkusa is positively described in the report of the head of the Land Books Division of the Riga City Vidzeme Suburban court, which indicates that the judge Irina Norkusa takes decisions within the time limits set by law, the work of the assistant judge is well organized and controlled. Procedural documents shall be drawn up in good time without prejudice to time limits. The report of the Board of Civil Cases of the Riga Regional Court shows that the decisions taken by the judge correspond to the content of the decision specified in the Land Register Law and the Civil Procedure Law. These are well-structured, factual circumstances set out correctly and successively in the decisions. The submitted documents have been assessed and analysed comprehensively and the conclusions are logical. The decisions are generally well-founded. The language used in them is understandable and legally correct. The Judicial Qualification Committee has assessed the positive professional activity of Irina Norkusas, a judge of the Land Registers Division of the Vidzeme Suburban court of Riga and delivered a positive opinion for the approval of the judge without limitation of the term of office. In view of the above, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Commission, I call on Irina Norkus to confirm his appointment as a judge of the Land Register Division of the district (city) court, without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U76	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Irina Norkusas as a judge of the Land Register Division of the District (City) Court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U77	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U78	Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Jānis Tutina from the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Jānis Tutina from the National Security Commission”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr Ivan Klementyev, member of the Saeima from the Commission of European Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr Ivan Klementyev, Member of the Saeima from the Commission of European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Sergey Potapkin from the Commission for Sustainable Development. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Sergey Potapkin from the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Draft decision “On Election of the Saeima Member Jānis Tutinas to the Commission for Sustainable Development”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima member Jānis Tutina to the Commission for Sustainable Development! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Ivan Klementyev to the National Security Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Ivan Klementyev, Member of the Saeima, to the National Security Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Sergey Potapkin to the European Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Sergey Potapkin, to the European Commission for European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Ms Inga Betes to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Inga Betes to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the election of Ms Inga Betes as a member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Ms Inga Betes to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. Decision adopted. The next item is the treatment of parliamentary requests. If a Member could be a little quieter, then, of course, all the other Members would hear much better about what we are talking about right now. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It could be!” ) The MEPs Vitalij Orlovs, Ivans Ribakovs, Raimonds Rubiks, Igors Pimenovs, Sergejs Potapkins, Boriss Cilevičs, Arthur Rubiks, Igors Zujevs, Ivans Klementjevs and Andrejs Klementjevs have submitted a request to the Minister for Health Anda Čakša “On the actions of the Ministry of Health and institutions subordinate to it and their relevance to public interests in the implementation of the drug pricing policy, resulting in differences in the prices of medicines in the Baltic region for the treatment of diseases of vital importance to society”. Name for motivation to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U79	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, I think that each of you, when talking to the people of Latvia, has had to hear the question: “Why are medicines so expensive in Latvia?” I'm not an exception either. And one thing is when a person only expresses his dissatisfiance in words, and the other when a person comes and proves such cases with payment cheques, where the amount of identical medicinal products in Latvia and Lithuania is even four times different. You can imagine: a prescription product made in Germany, issued by a doctor psychiatrist, with the same amount of tablets and daily intake of tablets, costs four times more in Latvian pharmacy shelves than in Lithuania! I stress: A prescription product prescribed by a doctor psychiatrist. As we know, pharmacy is strictly regulated by the state, and therefore the price of medicines should be strictly set according to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. At present, the National Medicines Agency and the Pharmaceutical Department of the Ministry of Health are making very little use of their possibilities to try to reduce the price of medicinal products - especially if the range of price differences in the Baltic States as a whole is very visible and verifiable. With our request, we want to get answers to the following questions: What prevents the Ministry of Health from engaging in the development of a unified drug price policy in all Baltic countries in order to reduce the price of medicines? What prevents the inclusion of innovative products in the drug system of the Ministry of Health, whose availability in Latvia compared to other Baltic countries is negligible in order to reduce the mortality of the population from chronic diseases?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U80	Thank you. This request shall be addressed to the Commission. Members Sergey Potapkins, Arturs Rubiks, Raimonds Rubiks, Ivans Ribakovs, Andris Morozovs, Vitalijs Orlovs, Igors Zujevs, Sergejs Mirskis, Jānis Adamsons and Ivars Zarins have submitted a request to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the public statements of the Prime Minister for the “Morning Panorama” programme on 10 May 2018.” The word for motivation to Member Sergey Potapkin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U81	Dear colleagues, This request was prepared to clarify the real attitude of the Prime Minister towards the division of the excess principles and competences of the legal state included in Article 1 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia among the organs of state power. In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, there is functional and institutional separation of state power in the Republic of Latvia. The institutional division of state power is based on the division of competences between the organs of state power. In the Constitution, seven bodies of state power have been established - the total of citizens, the Saeima, the President of Latvia, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, and the State Audit Office. On 10 May 2018, the Prime Minister publicly stated in the “Morning Panorama” programme “Morning Panorama” in response to the question about the conclusions of the State Audit Office that “after the “Flights” of the State Audit Office it usually seems that everything has been destroyed, that is the style.” On the same day, the State Audit Office expressed misunderstood that “expressions about “demolition of all”, when assessing the work of the public supreme audit institution as “flights”, were unthinkable and did not promote good cooperation in public administration, nor public trust in public administration”. In the context of this statement by the Prime Minister, we ask the Prime Minister to provide clarification on the following issues: First. Being politically responsible for the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in general, what interests did you accept the aforementioned public statements regarding the independent constitutional body - the State Audit Office? Second. Do the public statements made without evidence on the functioning of an independent constitutional organ comply with the meaning of Article 1 of the Satversme, the principle of good governance, promote cooperation in public administration and strengthen public confidence in the state power? While accepting such public statements, was it not excluded that the dangerous tendency of one branch of power - the executive - to highlight itself as the dominant, thus ignoring and distorting the system of the parliamentary system of the Republic of Latvia? And the last one. Do you think the public statements on the functioning of an independent constitutional body should be allowed from the point of view of democratic policy ethics and the ethical principles of governance? In your opinion, in order to avoid a repeat of a similar situation, would the question of the code of ethics of the government be relevant, which would establish ethical principles and rules of conduct for all members of the Cabinet of Ministers? We ask for answers to each question individually, numbered as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U82	Thank you. This request shall also be submitted to the Request Commission. Inga Bite, Nellija Kleinberga, Riharda Melgailis, Arvīds Platopera, Mārtiņš Šica, Vara Krūmiņa, Jānis Ruka, Silvija Simfas, Juris Viļumas and Edwards Smiltēns have received a request from the Minister of Welfare Janis Reiras “On non-compliance with the planning document approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Law on the State Budget and promises made by the Saeima”. The name of the Member Inga Bite - motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U83	Dear colleagues, At the end of 2016 and in the beginning of 2017, here in this hall and in Saeima committees we discussed babies in orphanages. It was proposed that children under the age of three should not have children in their homes. And we talked about this quite a lot and quite a lot about it, and I would like to say that most of you agreed that it is true: children under the age of three do not have to be in orphanages. However, this proposal was rejected at the time. This was rejected because the Ministry of Welfare (in the person of Minister Janis Reiras, in the person of many higher officials of the Ministry, and in the person of colleague Hosama Abu Meri, who was the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Welfare) promised that the money would be allocated and that there would be immediately specialised families who would receive a reward for their work and who would be ready to receive and raise these infants. And the question was postponed for this reason. At this point in time, we see that the Ministry of Welfare has drawn up rules that are known as the Rules of the Youth Family, and these rules do not refer to specialised foster families who would be ready to take care of infants. In addition, we hear in the public media that foster families do not receive remuneration for their work and it is not known whether they will receive it in the near future. It should be recalled that one and a half years have passed since these promises were made. Does the Minister really think that one and a half years are enough for us to forget what has been said here, from this platform, and what has been written in the planning rules? It seems that these promises are made on the basis of the principle of “How can you not be sold?” and left here in the air hanging, because the Ministry's real activities and documents do not reflect them. This is also the basis for this request. We demand the Minister to explain his actions. We call on the Minister to show where the EUR 5 million allocated for 2017 has been left for the creation of these families, and where it is planned to use the funds that have been allocated for this year and for the following year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: Election campaign! ) Dear colleagues! In response to the discussions that take place here a year and a half ago, not as part of the pre-election campaign, I ask you to support this request and ask Minister Janis Reirs how he has fulfilled these promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U84	Thank you. This request is also addressed to the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, for the transition to the next section of the agenda - Examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to law on environmental impact assessment”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U85	Mr President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment” (No 1175/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined this draft law for the second, final, reading. A total of 18 proposals were received. 1. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U86	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U87	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U88	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U89	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U90	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U91	4. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U92	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U93	5. - Mr Gerhard's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U94	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U95	6. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U96	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U97	7. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U98	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U99	8 / 8 - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U100	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U101	9. - Mr Gerhard's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U102	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U103	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Gerhard's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U104	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U105	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U106	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U107	12. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It was partly supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U108	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U109	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U110	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U111	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U112	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U113	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U114	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U115	16. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U116	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U117	17. - Mr Gerhard's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U118	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U119	And finally 18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U120	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U121	I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U122	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U123	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods” (No 1189/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy in general examined three proposals for this draft law. 1. - The proposal by Ringold Arnis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U124	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U125	2. - The proposal by Ringold Arnis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U126	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U127	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U128	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U129	We have therefore examined all three proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U130	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on the law on the movement of dangerous goods! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U131	Hello, honourable Members! The National Administration and Municipal Commission has not received any proposal for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electoral Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania”. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U132	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Geospatial Information Law”, third reading. Anrijs Matīss, Member of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U133	Honorable Chairman of the sitting! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Geospatial Information Law” (No 1120/Lp12). In total, eight proposals have been received by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at its third reading of the draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U134	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U135	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U136	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U137	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U138	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U139	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U140	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U141	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also partly supported and included in 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U143	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U144	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U145	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U147	And also 8. - Legal Bureau's proposal - the Commission has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U148	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U149	We have therefore examined all the proposals. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U150	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law "Amendments to the Geospatial Information Law" in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inguna Rībena.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U151	Dear colleagues, Document No 4914 - Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”. 17 proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U152	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U153	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U154	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U155	3. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U156	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U157	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U158	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U159	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 9 has been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U160	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U161	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 9 has been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U163	7. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Melbard. 9 has been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U164	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U165	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It is also supported and included in 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U166	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U167	9. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U169	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been partly supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U170	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U171	11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U172	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U173	12. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U175	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been supported and included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U176	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U177	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U178	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U179	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U181	16. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It has been partly supported and included in 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U183	17. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U184	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U185	Please vote in favour of the draft law as a whole at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U186	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The law is passed. Draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Riga Stradins University”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inese Aizstrauta.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U187	Hello, colleagues! The Education, Culture and Science Commission has not received any proposals after the second reading. The Commission has examined the amendments to the Constitution of Riga Stradins University and is asking to support the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U188	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Riga Stradins University” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, against and refrains. The draft law has been adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U189	May 22nd.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U190	May 22nd. Members shall not object. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U191	Mr President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses’ (No 1195/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined this draft law for second reading. One proposal was received. It is a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U192	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U193	We have therefore examined the proposal. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U194	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U195	Thank you. Let us wait until 22 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U196	May 22nd. Members agree. Dear colleagues, The next item is the draft law on the protection of alarms at first reading, as well as the alternative law on alarms at first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Astrid Harju.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U197	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Saeima! Last year, the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government received from the Government the draft law on the protection of alarmers, which was put aside for various reasons due to a large number of questions. In order to be able to draw up this law of quality, various negotiations, various discussions took place, and an international conference on the promotion of alarms and the protection of alarms was held at the Saeima in October last year. The conference was attended by representatives of many European countries and experts working in this field, as well as representatives of the United States and experts working directly on such legal provisions relating to alerting in their countries. The conference highlighted the main aspects and directions that we could look at and how we could move this draft law forward to real life. And the commission took the decision to draft an alternative law “Warning Law”. Thus, the name itself has already been changed in substance. How does the draft law on the protection of alarms differ from the draft law on alarms? The difference is that the purpose of the law, the nature of the purpose, has changed. The draft law “Ambient Protection Law” states that the aim is to ensure the protection of alarmlers in order to promote alarm about violations in the public interest, whereas the draft law “Ambient Protection Law” states that the aim is to promote alarm about violations - in the public interest or in part thereof - and to ensure the establishment and functioning of alarm mechanisms (channels) as well as adequate protection for the alarmer. The alternative draft law also defines very clearly the rights, responsibilities and responsibilities of the alarm provider. And for the first time, the state, as provided for in this bill, determines legal protection for the alarmer as well as his relatives. If today there are different regulatory regulations that allow alarming to work, when writing an application within the framework of the law... an application and report on infringements or offences against the public or part of the public, then... There was no one-size-fits-all... Such a draft law provides for all legal frameworks in this area. And, as I said, for the first time there is protection for the alarm. Moreover, the form differs from the Application Law: if information is provided to the rapporteur on the basis of the application, then in this case - in the event of an alert - the most important thing is to prevent the infringement. ( Internouncing call.) There was a lot of discussion and working groups, but I wanted to touch on these important areas of the draft law. I invite you to vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the protection of alarms submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission is calling for this draft law to be rejected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “The Dolgopolov Commission is that? Horrible! We need support!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U198	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “The Law on the Protection of Alarms”! I recall that the draft law has been rejected by the commission responsible. Please vote mode! ( Internouncing call.) Please get the result! For - 2, for - 64, for - 5. The draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers has been rejected at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the alternative draft law “Warning Law” drafted by the Commission of the State Administration and Municipality! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - no, for - 2. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U199	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 8 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U200	June 8, 2008 Members shall not object. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions, second reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U201	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” (No 1179/Lp12). 15 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis to exclude the words "or work" from Article 1 of the first subparagraph. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U202	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U203	Proposal 2 - to be supplemented by the words ", irrespective of age, retired from service in accordance with the decision of the National Commission of Health and Work Capacity Experts or due to a reduction in the number of employees and having a period of service of not less than 20 years". Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U204	Yeah. It should only be said that this proposal has also been made by the Minister of Defence. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U205	3. - to exclude the words 'or worked'. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U206	This proposal was also submitted by the Minister of Defence and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U208	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U209	4. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U210	Mr. Schitz! As rapporteur for the commission, you have to report who has submitted the proposal. I don't need to repeat and speak for you all the time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “He already doesn’t know! Mr. Schitz, focus!” ) The Minister for Defence has therefore also tabled a proposal 4 and the Commission has supported this proposal. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U211	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U212	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U213	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U214	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U215	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U216	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U217	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U218	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U219	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U220	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U221	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U222	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U223	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U224	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U225	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U226	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U227	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U228	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U229	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Defence Bergmanis. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U230	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U231	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Defence. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U232	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U233	And to establish that the law will come into force from 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U234	That is not a proposal. That is the text of the first reading of the draft law. All the proposals have been examined. I understand that on behalf of the Commission you probably want to call on the Saeima to support this draft law at second reading. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You understood correctly, Mr. Many!” ) Please call us! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U235	The deadline for the third reading of the proposals is 1 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U236	June 1st Members shall not object. Thank you. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Andris Morozovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U237	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, which we see at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U238	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U239	Hello, Mr. Many! Hello, colleagues! On the transition from the accreditation of subjects and programs to the accreditation of fields of studies, ideas shared. In the Commission, both the majority voted, and therefore all the changes have been accepted here. But we opposition MEPs voted 'no'. I'll explain why. Only quite recently, in 2013, and with great discussions, with the participation of all universities, amendments were adopted to accredit study directions and not study programmes. So the transition was five years ago. Now it's all turned back. Question: "Why?" There was no happy university rectors, nor the Latvian Council of Rectors, nor the students. The only ones who looked happy about the program... change of direction of accreditation, were the employees of the Ministry of Education and Science themselves. The question is: in what context is it also with our education laws that we are looking at? Will it not be five years and we will not return to what we are now adopting? Will the fragmentation of study programmes not return again, which was one of the arguments for the transition to the program... the accreditation of directions? Question: "Who will pay for all this?" Of course, all this will be paid by universities and students themselves. As we are well aware, the accreditation of one-way programmes cost about EUR 6 000. Now, accreditation for one study programme will cost more than 10,000. The rectors said: “What are we going to take that money from? Of course, from what we will earn! These will be student fees, student contributions!” Well, which students then do we have the biggest payers? Of course, these are foreign students. So we're going even more to attract students from abroad who are able to pay. And, as we know, most of these students do not come from the countries of the European Union. And for those who do not come from these countries, studies and studies in Latvia are like such a good illegal visa. The moratorium on study fees shall end in a year. Then the country will probably be more expensive. And at the very end, I want to remind you that this law comes into force on 1 April 2019. That only this does not happen as a good April joke for all future university students and also for the universities themselves! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U240	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U241	Dear Mr. President, Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! I must agree with what Member Krūmiņš said about these things. And since I have really devoted my professional life to higher education and I have also been an officially recognised expert in this field, I have my own point of view, and that is the view: today, in this draft law for the second reading, nine of the 11 proposals submitted by the education sector involve a strategic error (in this case the Ministry of Education and Science and the Saeima Education, Culture and Science Commission). Why did I base my opinion on this? In principle, I see these second-reading proposals as a Trojan horse... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “Nice, listen once what you are saying!” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “I hear everything!” ) (The Head of the sitting knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U242	Please, quiet in the room!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U243	... as a Trojan horse, because at first reading we received a very normal draft law that covered two things: that the founder of the university has the opportunity to decide whether to open new courses or not, and that only an institution based in Latvia (and in this case it is the Centre for Academic Information) can be accredited, or one of the accreditation institutions included and recognised in the European Union Special Register (the second case has long been discussed in the higher education sector). These are two things which are still present in this draft law and which are to be supported, but all that is connected with the transition from accreditation to accreditation of study programmes is, in my opinion, a strategic mistake. In the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, we discussed these things very thoroughly in 2011, when we moved from accreditation of programmes to accreditation of directions. And the reasons were both those mentioned by Mr. Krūmiņš - both cost reduction and... The main reason for this was that when accrediting universities and accrediting study programmes, it was observed that universities had one and the same resources – both teachers' resources, material resources and... Thus, different types of intellectual resources were allocated to different study programmes: first level professional higher education, bachelor's, master's and doctoral programmes. There were the same professors, the same audience, the same computers, the same laboratories. In some universities, if they read together, how much one professor works, looking at four-level programmes, it came out that he was working more than there was a working hour a week, and some of the audiences were also using more than there was an hour at all. And in order to avoid this double-counting, it was decided at that time to move away from the accreditation of programmes to the accreditation of fields of study so that a full area can be seen in order to allow an analysis of the full area. And indeed, at that time, in 2011, it was discussed in very detail, recognised as being in favour of us and, to be honest, in these seven years, I have not heard any objections to accreditation of these courses. Universities have learned to live with it and to realize it. Over the last few weeks, when speaking to those who are still active in the higher education sector in different positions of responsibility, I have not heard from anyone a consistent statement of reasons why the transition from accreditation to accreditation of programmes would now be necessary. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “Ministry changes after!” ) Therefore, based mainly on these arguments, I will not personally support proposals 1 and 2 as well as proposals 5 to 11. Proposals 3 and 4 concern the cases I am referring to and were already related to what had been tabled at first reading. I would remind you that the draft law at first reading came to the committee last autumn, and there was also a sufficiently long break between the sittings of the Saeima, but it has now come to pass that the draft law with a completely different content at second reading came to the sitting of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U244	Thank you. Member's name is Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U245	Colleagues! This time too... In the Commission we have dealt with these issues on several occasions, and personally, it was also very difficult for me to agree that we are moving from accrediting to accrediting programmes, but if you look carefully, Mr Vucanas, there is actually a path towards an even more modern one - to accrediting universities - allowing the university to decide on the programmes itself after it is accredited. And I think this is the right direction in which we need to go for university accreditation. In the Commission, we had a lot of discussions, and there is a lot left if you noticed... right - a set of programmes that actually have the same direction.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U246	Thank you. The name of the Member, Janis Wuzan, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U247	Thank you, Mrs Straujuma, for this explanation, but it turns out that we are now going back some half a year to move on to quite different norms. In my opinion, it is not correct that amendments are tabled at second reading on all relevant matters affecting the sector... Since this was not the case at first reading, we cannot read a single line in our annotation. The public cannot, therefore, obtain full information that will go on. If it were as you said, it was all to be reflected in an annotation, to discuss with the industry, and I would allow some of these issues to fall apart. There has not been any discussion with the sector at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U248	Thank you. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U249	Hello, dear colleagues! Indeed, amendments to this opening of the University Law were tabled last autumn and a long discussion took place at several committee meetings. This second-reading version, which is currently being directed for approval at the Saeima sitting, was discussed with both the Board of Directors of Latvia and the Council of Higher Education, as well as with the Association of Universitys of Latvia. So practically... Well, I can say that there is therefore a compromise option here so that we move gradually towards institutional accreditation as an option, that is to say, to university accreditation. In addition, these programmes, which were already planned to be accredited in 2019, are being extended... Thus, the deadline is extended by one year so that universities can prepare themselves. Financially, it'll probably be more expensive... this accreditation of programmes. But the main reason that this is being done is for the ministry to be able to... in order to allow accreditation bodies to really assess which programmes are to be accredited and supported for a period of six years and which are likely to be closed. Yeah... I repeat: in 2006, we had 630 higher education programmes, whereas now we have more than 900 programmes (by number of students - minus 27 per cent). And, of course, realising that there is still a lack of financial resources for universities, we are continuing to lay our hands open for new programmes, but we are not assessing the previous ones - which are qualitative and which are not. However, the request to support this option.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U250	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U251	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen! The head of the commission listed many organisations present. But I would like to know how many of these organisations agreed. Because it is not right to just read - there was the Latvian Council of Rectors, there were students, there was LIZDA and so on. But what did they agree, and what were the opposite arguments? That is first. Secondly. I must agree with Mr Vucana that we must not put at second reading issues that have not been dealt with at first reading at all and which are not annotated. The Commission is now trying, forgive me, to "put" something that the Ministry itself has come up with, and in essence it is doing so bypassing the procedure set out in the parliamentary roll of order that first reading, first reading, presentation of the idea in the debate, second reading, and third reading, add to it. We had a similar situation, by the way, at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission: there were also a number of proposals from the Ministry of Finance for second reading. We rejected them in the Commission, but immediately supported the move towards a separate draft law with a separate annotation. Moreover, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima found a great deal of errors there. Everything has been improved a lot, and we can normally work on it. I call for the same thing to be done in this case: to support, in substance, Mr Vacana's proposal and to vote against the first proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U252	Thank you. The name to Member Varis Krumins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U253	Say hello to everyone again! Well, there was a very interesting view in the committee meeting that Mr. Storm was sitting here like this... with the gripped head, reject with the hand and said there is no worth fighting. The students were 'no'. I don’t even know what was “for” if we talk it honestly. Who was "for" then? ‘ About” was the Ministry of Education and Science and... Members who voted in favour - they were also in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U254	Member Aldim Adamovich, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U255	Colleagues, I will also remind colleagues of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science: two sessions ago... when all these named organisations objected to the Ministry's proposal, the task was to find a compromise and to present the most acceptable version, which was also examined at the last meeting of the Commission. And there was no objection at the last meeting of the Commission to the Latvian Council of Rectors, the Council of Higher Education and the Latvian University Association. Students offered calculations for accreditations, but... Well, we can draw these calculations out of context and... I don't know... offer any national accreditation commission in this register and call this price, of course, mystically high. So, of course... Yes! I call on you today to vote in favour of the proposals adopted by the Commission. But now, think!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U256	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U257	Dear colleagues, It would be very good if Mr Adamovich said how all these issues were discussed. Of course, there were big reservations, disputes. Many of those present, including university rectors, said, and then it was the most interesting vote. Minister Šadurski said: “If you vote on Amendment 3, I withdraw Amendment 2 if you vote on Amendment 6, I withdraw!” And it was the vote on about five proposals. I've been in the commission for the first time, something like that... Not discussing every proposal and comparing, but... No. No. And that was the most interesting thing - one of the Members of the Unity - just these questions were voted well - six were 'yes', five 'no', 'no' - they did not vote... So six to five. As soon as this issue was resolved, the honourable Member of Unity rose up and disappeared quickly and gave the opposition the opportunity to go out. A.Kamiņš: “Who?” ) and not to discuss the next question at all, because there was no quorum. I understood that the bill at any cost was pushed out to be the only one. And the reservations were that... Vucan, we already said that to the Commission. Did anyone listen to that? Well, he didn't! And here's our tragedy! What we haven't done! What we have not done in education, health and elsewhere, because the coalition is better than the opposition, because the opposition always says something bad. Something disgusting, something for Latvia would not be necessary if. I have always asked a question to all members of the coalition. You are giving me one area of education, which has been organised in 27 full years, now 28 years old. No one! No pre-school, no primary school, no secondary school, no higher education. We are a small nation, less than two million. We seem to have the highest number of universities on every citizen. And, Mr Adamovich, it is not the draft law that you now want to adopt at any cost at second reading that I will put something in order. I'm not gonna do anything! Because the state has not determined what university student should learn, so that Latvia can be afraid of some progress. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: University Autonomy! ) Higher education institutions must be forced (intermediate call.) prepare them (interim call.) , which is necessary for the Latvian state. Why are we missing... I hear from the Commission all the time: we do not have 3,000 specialists in information technology. Why? Why we have an enormous number of lawyers and do not know any other social workers, and what we have been preparing so far. And in the commission I hear all the time, saying, There is no learner. Well, there's the effect. Mathematics can be taught when it is taught correctly from Class 1. Chemistry, biology, physics, on which engineering science is based... and can be supplemented by the fact that music is needed in very large amounts to develop the brain that... Unfortunately, I feel that in 27 years, very many members of the coalition lack analytical, critical thinking and everything else, so that Latvia moves forward, not all the time, sorry, back... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Rightly right!” ( ) Why do we always compare? Salary teachers in Latvia are twice as small as in Estonia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri: “Proposal!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U258	Mr. Platoper! Go back to the proposal, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U259	Everything I said! Because we accept some silly laws, but we don't put the system in order! No progress is made in each area, starting with kindergarten. Thank you for your attention. I call for this bill to be simply not voted in favour of it, so that it is finally properly arranged by the committee for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U260	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U261	Colleagues! Indeed, the draft law was reviewed several times, the commission had decided several times that representatives of universities should meet with ISM and agree with each other. The final decision has not been made either by anyone or by others; therefore, each one must vote with his own conscience. The Commission has received 11 proposals. Proposal 1 - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for clarification of the terms used by the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U262	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 26, for - 28. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U263	Proposal No 2 is a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, Karls Šadurskis, who intends to clarify the particulars to be entered in the register. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U264	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 25, for - 27. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U265	The proposal is a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for clarification of the procedures for accreditation of universities. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U266	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 47, for - 10, for - 20. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U267	Proposal 4 is a Commission proposal which provides for clarification of the accreditation procedures for joint university study programmes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U268	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U269	Proposal 5 is a proposal of the Commission, which intends to clarify the procedure for licensing university study programmes. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U270	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 25, for - 25, for - 26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U271	Proposal 6 is a proposal from the commission responsible, which provides for the exclusion of Article 2 of the draft law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U272	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 25, for - 28. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U273	Proposal No 7 is a proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, which provides for clarification of the competences of the Board of Directors. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U274	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U275	Colleagues! You see that with this draft law, Amendments to the Law on Higher Education, there is a great deal of roughness and we, Members, cannot take any decision normally. In conceptual terms, I propose that all proposals supported by the Commission be rejected and that the draft law itself be rejected at its very roots. I would like to remind the party of the Unity, that is what. Today, the Minister for Health was a good bar. Minister of Education and Science Šadurskis... I don't know why this message has disappeared somewhere... Seven times he had no time to meet with the representatives of the LIZDA! And LISSE will go to you and ask for an explanation. ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) Either Shadursky's phone battery... all the time is turned off... he has no time. I'm calling...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U276	Mr. Neighbours, let us come back to the proposal, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U277	... I call for consistency. And if there are any proposals of this kind from Shadursky, then he must also talk to LizDA in this regard. Seven times you don't get here or hear and turn off the ignore mode - that's not acceptable! So I ask you to reject all the proposals and draft laws supported by the Commission as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U278	The debate is closed. Thank you. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U279	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U280	Are Members asking for a vote? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - a proposal from the Minister for Education and Science! Please vote mode! Please the result of the vote! For - 25, for - 27, for - 27, for - 27. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U281	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for clarification of the competences of the Council for Higher Education. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U282	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 25, for - 30, for - 25, for - 30. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U283	9. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which intends to supplement the rights of the Higher Education Council. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U284	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 25, for - 25, for - 26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U285	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for clarification of the transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U286	Members call for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 25, for - 30, for - 25, for - 30. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U287	11. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for clarification of the time when the law enters into force. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U288	Members don't mind... However, Members are asking for a vote. I'm sorry! Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 26, for - 29. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U289	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law. I will not express my opinion.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U290	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 24, for - 1. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U291	Proposals - till June 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U292	June 1st Members don't mind... June, yes, sixth month. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Financial and Capital Markets. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U293	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Market Commission’ (No. 1252/Lp12) drawn up by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. It contains two fundamental amendments. One is to introduce a general principle and set time limits in key positions, as in the draft law, which has now been passed on to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) and which has been approved by the Saeima at first reading (in relation to the powers of the President of the Bank of Latvia). In honour of this general principle, already there are two time limits established for officials of independent institutions, such as the Director of the Office for Constitutional Protection, the Chief of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption, the Prosecutor General, the Auditor General, as well as the Chairman of district (city) court. At the time, an expert panel was established near the President of Latvia, led by the doctor of legal sciences Jānis Pleps, and the purpose of the creation of this expert group was to analyse the problem of the establishment and operation of independent institutions from the Constitutional aspect and to propose proposals. This group of experts also stated in its conclusions that it was necessary to provide for the number of successive terms of office of officials. So if this officer is elected to the FCTC Council for a term of six years, then two terms of office respectively... Maximum 12 years... This would also reduce the risks of corruption, as stated in the statement. This is also one of these objectives. Celebrating how we can realize it... If three members of the Board are not appointed by a vote of the Saeima, then they shall have this term of office... they may not be subject to restrictions. And the same group of experts pointed out in its proposals: if the independent body is to have collegial leadership - the board - as is the case with the FCTC, then all the members of the board should be approved by the Saeima. On the basis of this expert report and also on the basis of... When examining the creation of the Law on the Financial and Capital Market (which was adopted on June 1, 2000), we see that initially the draft law and its annotation also provided for exactly such a procedure that all five members of the council are elected to the Saeima. However, for the second reading, the then Minister of Finance Krastiņš, representing the People's Party, submitted a proposal to change this order, and three non-Head and non-Deputy members of the Council are currently approved by the President on a joint recommendation from the Minister of Finance and the President of the Bank of Latvia. In fact, when the President and Vice-President are nominated, there is such a tripartite cooperation. The Saeima approves nominations jointly recommended by the Minister of Finance and the Bank of Latvia. And for the rest of the Council, so... The Heads of Commission shall be nominated and approved by the Minister of Finance together with the Bank of Latvia. In order to maintain this tripartite cooperation, it is proposed that the other members of the Board be nominated jointly by the Chairman with the Minister of Finance. It is included in the original version, but the discussion was whether it would be necessary, however, to keep the President of Latvijas Banka together with the Minister of Finance and the Head of the FCMC in the position to direct the other members of the Council. It would then be the subject of discussion for the second reading. And one more thing that led to the discussion. The second paragraph of Section 13 of the Finance and Capital Market Commission Law states that members of the board are also heads of departments at the same time. They are protected by the Labour Law because they have a contract of employment. Even if we create new arrangements for the appointment of these Council members, the Labour Act remains in force. That is why the transitional provisions currently state that the term of office of the new members of the Council expires when new members are appointed. As director of departments, both the Labour Law applies to them, however, in order to respect the second paragraph of Section 13 of the Law, these director of departments will of course have to offer to perform other duties according to their skills. I guess that's all I can say on behalf of the commission. At the Commission's meeting on 9 May, we examined this draft law, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for its support at second reading. ( Insight: “For first reading! ”) ) First! Of course, first! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U294	Yes! Thank you. Please call me! ( Interface: “Lolita wants to talk! ” ) I am sorry, Mrs Chigan, I did not notice. Really! Let's start a debate. The name of Member Lolita Chigan. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U295	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, Probably everyone wants to go to the lunch break, but this is a very important law and is certainly worth just a little bit of it to discuss here in the debate. I know that Mr. Neiminina doesn't want to know anything new. , he has already scattered it several times from his place. However, of course, we are all interested in the Financial and Capital Markets Commission working independently, autonomously and not in the presence of politicians' subordinate servants, as has been the case so far, and in the nature of monitoring the health of our financial sector. The question is whether these amendments really go in this direction and the answer is: partly and slightly. Of course, after that hint with the posts that we received from the US financial supervisor regarding money laundering in our banking sector, we must start to move at last, something must be done, and this is also a movement in the right direction. In particular, we set time limits for the members of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission, we set a procedure for their election, i.e. with the involvement of the Saeima. However, more far-reaching changes are needed here. If we want to really work as professionals in this commission, it is necessary to provide that these professionals are selected in an open competition and have international financial experience. Colleagues, we have a lot of competent Latvian citizens who have gone to work on other European Union... to other countries. It would be very good if they had the opportunity to apply for these members' posts and consequently also the opportunity to return to Latvia and work, and to contribute with their knowledge to the health of our financial sector. Similarly, the procedure for the removal of members of the panel should be supplemented, since it is clear that, at present, these members are required by law to be of good repute. At present, however, it is not foreseen that these members should be removed as they lose their integrity. Colleagues, we are looking at this draft law at first reading. There will, of course, be an opportunity to table amendments for second reading, and the Unity Group will do so, and then we will fight for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U296	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U297	Yeah, colleagues. Indeed, we had a broader discussion on how to improve the work of this committee. There was even such a discussion that perhaps, as it is in Estonia, the FCMC should be part of the Bank of Latvia as such. But what we decided... We decided that only minimal changes were actually proposed for the first reading. If they are complementary to any requirements or, as you propose - select an open competition - all this can be done, and this is a second-reading question. What we keep... we maintain the current principle by setting these two deadlines only, and the appointment procedure is in principle. It is not possible, in turn, to introduce these two deadlines, as I said, for the members of the board who are now... By the way, two members of the Board are working for 17 years, which are already in fact three deadlines. I guess you don't want any corporate links there. They are excellent professionals, and they would be determined by other institutions involved in finance or in this field to find the right place. So, for the second reading, we can certainly discuss and strengthen these requirements, but at the moment, on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U298	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - no, for - 3. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U299	The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U300	May 22nd. Members shall not object. And the agenda of today's last meeting - 'Handing on draft decisions'. Draft decision “On the change of the commission responsible for draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” (1165/Lp12)”. Let's start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U301	Dear colleagues, Without even returning to work at the Saeima, I was informed of the pressure placed on the Legal Commission, the number of work done by the Legal Commission, the number of draft laws to be considered and that it will not be possible in any way to enter into the meetings of the Commission that they are given... and which are taking place in other commissions and that there will be a need for a number of additional meetings to examine draft laws already within the competence of the Legal Commission. I would like to remind you that today we transferred to commissions, including the Legal Commission, draft amendments to the Satversme, which are very important and should be moved forward in the near future. The competence of the Legal Commission is also the draft law on publicising oligarchs negotiations, which has been under consideration for several months and has not moved anywhere, and the draft Personal Data Processing Law, which the Legal Commission was viewing this week. I would like to say that the Legal Commission has enough work to do. Moreover, the review of the parliamentary draft database shows that the regulation of pre-election campaign has always been within the competence of the National Administration and Municipal Commission. 12.The Saeima has two such draft laws, both within the competence of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government; the 11th Saeima had four such draft laws, all four within the competence of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, and the 10th Saeima also had two such draft laws, both within the competence of the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. These draft laws have always been within the competence of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, because of course it has its own justification. It has been heard that these changes are politically motivated, because someone wants to regulate somewhere quickly and quickly. It has to be said that it is reasonable to approach this issue before the elections, it is no longer possible to adopt any changes to the laws relating to promotion, elections and similar matters. But if the coalition has a very, very great desire to get out of something very, very quickly... It should be said that this can also be done in the Commission of State Administration and Local Government by simply voting the chairman, inviting him to put this issue on the agenda and asking him to vote for it, if it is really necessary for one of the coalitions. However, it is reasonable to leave these questions to the next Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U302	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U303	Dear colleagues, I will add to what my colleague Inga Bite has already said about the workload of the Legal Commission. Indeed, yes, the law on personal data processing must be adopted very soon, but we are in second reading and there are a lot of questions. No matter how well Mr Berzins would lead the work of the Legal Commission - he is indeed an excellent specialist - I do not believe that the restrictions on pre-election to communicate with politicians would be such an acute issue as we see. I would also like to remind you that 22 days are left until the beginning of the pre-election campaign period. And so I would also like to understand why Mr Gaidis Berzins is one of the signatories to this initiative, because in fact, despite perhaps the Legal Commission, the Saeima will not be able to pass this law before the 13th Saeima elections. Therefore, unfortunately, it only looks like a pre-election move. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U304	The debate is closed. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election Aggregation” (No. 1165 Lp12)’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 68, for - 3. No decision has been taken. The draft decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, The agenda for today's sitting is therefore under consideration. However, I would like to inform you of the meeting scheduled for today to answer Members' questions. The agenda included the question of Members Krūmiņa, Šimfas, Ruka, Šics and Viļuma to the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis “On the pay schedule of teachers”, but the Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to the previous work meetings. Members Zarins, Ribakovs, Adamsons, Urbanovičs and Arthur Rubiks submitted a question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis about the sustainability of the social system. The question is addressed to the Minister for Welfare Janis Reirs, who informs that he can attend the oral response. Members Zarins, Ribakovs, Adamsons, Urbanovičs and Arthur Rubiks submitted a question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the Sustainability of the Pension System”. The question was referred to the Minister for Welfare Janis Reirs, and the Minister informs that he can attend the oral response. Consequently, two questions are on the agenda for today's question-and-answer meeting. In turn, a number of new questions have been received. Members Zarins, Tutins, Jakimovs, Mirskis and Adamsons have submitted a question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the necessary creation of a database of 1 852 483 euro recipients of health care services”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U305	Colleagues! The saga on e-health, where more than EUR 13 million have been spent, has not yet come to an end, but is already the next story: almost two million will be needed to develop a database for recipients of healthcare services. The question is, do you really... How will this e-health function in general without such a database?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U306	Dear colleagues, last minute's sitting. Please observe your silence.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U307	The reasonable question arises when you get acquainted with the expenditure provided for in this money: in general, in the state administration in Latvia IT projects are somehow supervised and coordinated with each other? In this context, we are addressing the Prime Minister directly, so that he can explain to us how justified the 1.8 million people who will have to learn something very quickly and whether they will not end up in the same way as with e-health. We ask the officials in charge in good time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U308	Thank you. Members Zarins, Potapkins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins and Ribakovs have submitted a question to the Minister of Economics Ašeradens “On the Efficiency of the Application of the Rules for Evaluation and Evaluation of Recompensation of the Rules of Procedure of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 262 of 16 March 2010 “Regulations on Electricity Production Using Renewable Energy Sources and Pricing Procedures”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. Ladies and gentlemen, I forgot to say that the previous question was, of course, referred to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis. I forgot to say that. But now you have a word of motivation for the next question.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U309	These questions relate to the legendary regulations of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which the Ministry serves as one of its heroes' stories as it fights against the OIC. When we get to know them, we have the very opposite impression that these rules are prepared so that we can continue to cover the whole story. And on specific details, on specific amendments to these regulations, we are asking for clarifications from the Ministry of Economics. We hope that the Minister of Economics has been able to rest on our questions for a long time and to answer those questions, but we will not finally need to use the request procedure to get the answers required. The issues are very specific, very directly, on what the Ministry of Economics itself has decided and determined. We hope that the Ministry of Economics will have the competence to respond to them. Or you'll have to answer in a different way.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U310	Thank you. This question is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. And another question has been asked by Members Zarins, Mirskis, Arthur Rubiks, Tutins and Potapkins, who is addressed to the Minister for Health Anda Chakša, "On the avoidance of the Minister for Health to respond to the questions raised by the Commission's request for a debate". Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U311	In today's debate, we asked the Minister for Health concrete questions. The Minister for Health of this Tribunal did not answer any of them - he did not say any words. If you think that the Minister for Health will not be able to answer these questions, I call on you to think about it again and to figure out the right answer. In any case, we will get questions answered. Either here or in some other place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U312	Thank you. This question is referred to the Minister for Health Anda Chakša. Dear colleagues, it's time for registration. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please, check-in result! While the registration results are being gathered, honourable colleagues, I would like to remind you that this Saturday, May 19, the Saeima will have a Museum Night, and the Museum Night, as always, will have an opportunity to see Parliament, as well as to get to know the exhibition “At the Swing of Latvia” about the establishment of our country. The Saeima will be open from 19.00 to midnight, and I call on both Members and staff to take friends and family members and to take part in museum night events. And now the statement. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U313	Dear colleagues from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Meeting of the 14.10th Commission
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U314	And now the name to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U315	Dear colleagues, currently not registered: Gaidis Berzins, Ints Dālderis, Raivis Dzintars, Andrejs Judins, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Jānis Kžads, Armands Krauze, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Ināra Mūrniece, Edvins Šnore, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Upenieks and Juris Vectirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-05-17-PT12-481-U316	Thank you. Thus, on 17 May 2018, I declare the sitting of the Saeima closed.
