ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take office in the Chamber so that we can start the Saeima meeting on 13 December 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Social and Labour Commission of the Law “Amendment to Labour Law” ( 12). Draft Saeima Law No. 1254/Lp12, 13. Draft Saeima Law No. 26/Lp13, re-reading) asks to be excluded from the agenda of the Saeima sitting until further decision of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Draft legislation is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to Land Management Law” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Member Uldis Augulis informs that he has referred to the draft law on transport energy. Consequently, the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? And the objections. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft law “Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against - 15, abstaining - not. The draft law is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The National Administration and Municipal Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The National Administration and Municipal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “Diaspora Law” presented by Member Kola, Krauze, Neighbours, Dombrava and Dzintara be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” has applied to speak on behalf of Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U2	Colleagues! In order to have full clarity about the draft law, I would like to inform you that on 1 November this year 12. The Saeima passed the Diaspora Law. It has not yet entered into force. The date of entry into force shall be 1 January 2019. This law defines what is the Diaspora. Three proposals were put forward for the third reading as to how to define the Diaspora. The proposal tabled by Mr Dombrava was not supported. However, there was also a proposal from the Legal Office and a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission. We voted in favour of these proposals and the vote on the Bureau's proposal was as follows: in favour of - 42, against - 42, abstained - 3. The Committee's proposal was voted on as follows: on - 45, against - 44, abstained - 2. There is therefore no consensus. Opinions are different. What is the dispute? The dispute is about what we understand with the Diaspora. There is no doubt - everyone agrees that the Diaspora includes... includes citizens, includes Latvians. But the dispute is about a group that has ties with Latvia. Whether or not to write... Is that so? Is it to be expected or not? The Foreign Commission considered that if people have ties to Latvia, they are the people of the Diaspora. On the other hand, the Legal Office considered that this definition should not be used. And, as I said, there was no consensus. The law has not yet entered into force. Of course, there may be problems. The law may need to be amended. However, we have two different approaches. What did the applicants do? They took one opinion without discussion in the Commission, believing that 13. The Saeima may think differently and presented it in the form of a proposal that will improve the definition. In my opinion, such an approach is not, by its very nature, the right one. For if we have two different opinions, it would be very logical to call or talk about the Foreign Affairs Commission, for example, in the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. To apply for both options, to speak, and then the Saeima would decide which of these two options is better if there was a need. Perhaps there is a third, the best option: to wait, say, for six months, to live a year, to see how the law works, and then to decide on the amendments. I really think that it would not be right now to move the proposal forward. I have also heard that there will be no problems. Let's move this, then fix it. This is not appropriate in this case. Why? Because there is a single draft issue and its concept is narrowing. We cannot then remove this concept and put someone else. Consequently, I call for this issue to be debated first and then for a decision to be taken. On 16 January next year, at the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, we intend to talk about the policy of the Diaspora. I call on the Head of the Foreign Affairs Commission and all the others to the sitting where we will speak, discuss and take a decision. And if our commission or your commission decides that such amendments are necessary, then on behalf of the Commission there will be an opportunity to guide them and adopt a new law. But just to act as colleagues do, I think it is not collegial, and so I ask you not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U3	“A Member has applied to speak about” Rihards Kols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U4	Good morning, colleagues! A very brief reply to Mr Judine's statement on referral to the Commission. This has also contributed to a wide-ranging debate and debate. I simply do not understand how it is in any way contrary to the collegiality that you mentioned. But there is another view of this issue. First of all, I call for this question to be handled with a cool mind and to think rationally, not emotionally. Do not think about any mystical arguments, but about legal problems. Therefore, a small insight into recent history, although colleagues who so far had no direct connection to the Diaspora law and its formation, would understand why these amendments have been tabled. 12. At the last sitting of the Saeima, the Diaspora Act was adopted and a broad debate was raised about the definition of the term ‘diaspora’. After all, in the Diaspora Law, the Diaspora was defined as “citizens of Latvia, Latvians and others with ties to Latvia, as well as members of their families living outside Latvia”. The Commission did not support such a wide definition, and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Latvian Local Government Union, as well as (you have already received information in your e-mail) the Free Latvian Association of the World. The Saeima’s Legal Office has repeatedly indicated, with specific examples, that this definition is inconsistent. The Foreign Affairs Commission originally developed a legally correct definition at second reading, but then, on the basis of unclear arguments, returned to the review and voted in the legal record. In law, the interpretation of this term must be precise and unambiguous, because its purpose is not to complicate but to simplify the perception of the law and to limit the possibility of interpretation to the maximum extent possible. This definition has managed to do exactly the opposite, because it means that every citizen of the world may belong to the Latvian Diaspora. The words “others with ties to Latvia” are unclear. This link can be completely any: objective, thus legal and legal, or subjective - emotional and self-identifying. For example, the individual can choose whether he will be a member of the Latvian Diaspora based on whether he likes Latvian music, Latvian national hockey selection, our national dishes and so on. The objective link with Latvia can be foreigners who have never been in Latvia but who hold shares in the company or who have invested here. These may include migrant workers, persons to whom temporary residence permits have been issued, persons who have committed crimes in Latvia that have been punished and so on. And if someone's trying to tell you that it's definitely not, and it's impossible... Yes, it is! Sounds ridiculous, right? This seems to be the case, because that is the definition. It is such difficulties that arise from the statutory definition. Colleagues! Many of you received more or less identical letters this week from different persons with an invitation not to open this law. These letters many of you seem to have been fairly effective in handling. The letters stated that it was necessary to activate the Diaspora law from the outset, that the opening of the law would in fact mean freezing the law, that the opening of the law would stop funding for various activities. Pure light of eyes and ears - nothing will happen! The Diaspora Act will enter into force on 1 January 2019. Those who... And you know who you are... Those who deliberately deceive both Members and the public, those who knowingly disseminate false news and manipulate public opinion by spreading misinformation - it is really bad! I don't even like you a little bit. Amendments to the Diaspora Law have been submitted to change the existing definition against the legally most relevant version of the Saeima Legal Bureau, which provides that the Diaspora is Latvian citizens living outside Latvia: Latvians, Livs and persons whose relatives are Latvians or Livs, as well as their family members. Of course, we can talk about different slogans about open Latvian... and that all are Latvians. Yeah, it sounds good! But what will those who will have to implement the law do with these phrases - the employees of state and municipal institutions? The clarity and accuracy in the case of the term ‘diaspora’ is particularly important because the Diaspora Act provides for a number of support measures for the members of the Diaspora. I invite you not to create an opportunity for potential legal difficulties, not to create practical implementation of the Haosa Law in state and municipal institutions, and therefore to support the opening of the Diaspora Law, so as to ensure that we have a legally correct and unambiguous definition of what is the Latvian Diaspora. By leaving the existing definition of the term “diaspora”, we, the highest legislator in Latvia, will deliberately leave a legal brother in a new, otherwise qualitative and very necessary law. I call for the referral to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U5	Thank you. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “Diaspora Law” to the Foreign Affairs Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Labour Protection Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Construction of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of Land in Rural Areas” be submitted to the Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” be submitted to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Expropriation of Public Person’s Property” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Privatisation of State and Local Government Property and Privatisation Certificates” submitted by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers” be submitted to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Land Reform in Cities of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Procedure for Evaluation of Privatisation of State and Local Government Property Objects” be submitted to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Land Register Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Dombrovskis, Svekova, Lochmel-Lunov, Goldberg, Kucin and other draft laws presented "Amendments to the Law on the Medium-Term Budgetary Framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020" be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, with responsibility for the Commission. ‘ Against” Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Colleagues! I call for this draft law not to be supported for several reasons. First, some arguments about the form, then about the content. On the form - first. If we support this draft law, which provides for the re-planning of macroeconomic forecasts here in the Saeima, so as to create an additional fiscal space, we will appear to be the first country in Europe, perhaps even in a world where the macroeconomic forecasts will be political, with a finger in the air, not at expert level. There is also now a regulation laying down common budgetary principles, which states that macroeconomic projections are to be set by an independent body - by professionals and experts - assessing all the considerations and not just how much money we will need next year. In our case, it is the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Second. With such a proposal, where we seem to create a fiscal space, there is no extra money. As the macroeconomic projections change, it is also necessary to change all the other fiscal rules, which will lead to the same fiscal space as we already have. The following year it is with little minuses. Such a proposal is essentially a statement by a false magic artist, in which he shows a tree called macroeconomic forecasts, is still a black hat, and the magic artist promises you to have a havoc worth about eight million. And only after this hat has already been given to you, so that the bunny will pull it out and the gift will be promised to everyone, you realize there's no bunny there. It's a meaning. We cannot create any eight million in this way. Third. Colleagues, I well understand why the SAID, which sits in such a red line fence, makes the following proposals. The main motivation is, of course, to make popular proposals which are difficult to reject, thus creating confusion and chaos. But, colleagues, those of its red lines... All the others... we have removed, I think we have to understand - we must not listen to the voice of the sirens and support such proposals, because it will create chaos and allow us to say that the country has failed... chaos, troubles created... i.e., I call for no formal support. Content. This sum - just over eight million - does not solve those things that are currently painful in the field of medicine. The Ministry of Health has calculated that 87 million are needed to ensure an increase of 20 percent next year. Of course, this should be dealt with by the new government, but, as we may now see the new government somewhere on the horizon, next week, the Ministry of Health will come with a proposal to ensure that these funds will be provided in the next year, in a reasonable way, without infringing fiscal discipline. I call for this proposal not to be supported. It can only harm our country's reputation, because it will violate the rules of fiscal discipline; it can also affect our credit ratings. I urge you to keep your mind cool and deal with matters of substance, not with some false blasphemy. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U7	“About” has applied to speak Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U8	Dear colleagues, I wasn't going to talk about this bill, but yet... First. We are not talking about supporting or not supporting a draft law, but about passing it on to the Commission. Secondly. I would like to thank you very much once again for this decision by the Saeima: to allocate more than EUR 8 million to emergency medical assistance. As you have seen, the doctors have very much appreciated this. Colleagues, it is not important today whether or not the Saeima will support the referral of this draft law to commissions. This battle for NMPD is basically over. Go on. Some technical things. Here I said once that it is an axiom: if there is a higher gross domestic product growth forecast, that means that tax revenues are also higher. How can the opposite be said?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Good question! I think we will see in a while whether the Ministry of Finance, either under the leadership of Dana Reizniece-Ozola or another finance minister, will really review macroeconomic growth forecasts in line with the European Commission's latest forecast. I am sure we will see that this will be reviewed and not the current three percent, but 3.2 percent. And we will certainly see that this will also lead to higher tax revenues, as is always the case. And if we are already talking about a "museum and chaos", then perhaps the Minister of Finance could explain how it can happen that, on the one hand, the Minister of Health on television screens is talking about the fact that, here is a 20 per cent increase in medical fees, but on the other hand, on the next day, the Minister of Finance for Budget and Finance (tax) claims that there is no money. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “I didn’t say that!” ) Could I explain this confusion, please? I think the doctors are looking forward to this explanation - whether it is money or not. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U9	Thank you. So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2018, 2019 and 2020 to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) by stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate “Ozolsalas” in Ķekava municipality, Ķekava municipality – for the implementation of the project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mrs Petraviča, will you talk about it or 'no'? ‘ Against” said Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U10	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Please do not refer the matter to the commissions because the problem has been resolved: I will report on this in paragraph 37 of the agenda - in the draft law on the amendments to the law on personal income tax. Please vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 22, 70, abstaining - not. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on Social and Labour Affairs, tabled by the Social and Labour Commission, "Amendment to the Law on the Financing of Health Care", be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on Social and Labour Affairs “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment” submitted by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic of Lithuania” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, There are proposals for amendments to the agenda of the sitting. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and to review the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and to review draft laws “Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions of the Republic, Cities and Districts and Electoral Commissions” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs asks the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Financing of Health Care” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible and to be examined as the first section “Review of draft laws”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine” drawn up by the Commission to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Ms Inese Lībins-Egner from 6 to 10 December this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere to grant her unpaid leave from 6 December to 10 December. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of any adjustments to remuneration during the financial year in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Arvil Asheraden requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 7 to 10 December of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Colleagues! On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. The Saeima Presidium has received an application from Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Valeria Agešina, Edgars Kucina, Vital Orlova, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Adamsons, Vladimir Nikonovs and Ivan Klementyev to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 April 2018 No. 172 the task assigned to the task set out in the working group on the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity procurement. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U12	Hello, colleagues! Yesterday we had such a chrestomatic meeting of the Committee on Petitions. There was nothing new in principle. We examined the demand for subsidised electricity... the legality and legality of the aid scheme implemented by the Ministry of Economy. Although this request was made almost three weeks ago, even on the day of the examination of the request, the Ministry of Economics was unable to reply in writing to any of the questions. Also when we started discussing it at the commission meeting... These questions, the questions of demand, were on certain aspects of the rule of law: how legal some specific activities of the Ministry of Economics are being carried out by granting this aid. It was requested to provide precise legal provisions justifying legal action by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Economy was unable to designate any such provision. The discussion was similar to that of this anecdote. Two friends talk, and one says: “I heard you were attacked by a shark... “ The other one answers: “Yes, true.” The first continues: ‘... and that she has bitten something for you.” - “No, it’s not true.” So the question was to say exactly what was bited. So we got about this level of discussion. When the Ministry of Economics was asked why the working group it led did not do... OIC... Task Force... You heard it worked for months... has not carried out an assessment of the legality of the existing OIC system, the Minister for Economics stated: “We did not have the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to provide a comprehensive legal assessment of the OIC system. I named you the task assigned to me by the Cabinet of Ministers, we did it accurately. In the question of legal assessment (why it was not included), please invite the Head of the Cabinet of Ministers, Prime Minister Kučinski, and please ask him this question!” Then we have prepared this request for Kučinskis and ask him to explain why this order did not at all instruct the working group to carry out an evaluation of the legality of this system. And we ask him: 'Do you believe that an evaluation of the legality of this support system is not necessary to decide in a competent and responsible manner and to take further steps to put this support system in order? If you do not think so, please submit an assessment, because the Ministry of Economics has not been able to submit an evaluation to us.’ Let us wait for the Prime Minister's answers and perhaps the Prime Minister himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U13	Thank you. Consequently, we shall refer the request to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Draft decision “On approval of the delegated representative of the University Association of Latvia in the composition of the Council for Higher Education, Arthur Zepa”. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U14	Good morning, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, The first part of Section 66 of the Law on Higher Education, which will apply from 1 January 2019, determines that the Council for Higher Education consists of one delegated representative from the Association of Universitys of Latvia. By letter of 14 September 2018, the Association of University of Latvia delegated Artura Zepa to work in the Higher Education Council. Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis has led this candidacy in the Saeima with his letter. This issue was discussed by the Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima and prepared a draft decision - to approve, as a member of the Council for Higher Education, the delegated representative of the Association of Universitys of Latvia, Arthur Zepa, stating that the decision will enter into force on 1 January 2019. Please confirm this decision to the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On approval of the delegated representative of the Association of University of Latvia, Arthur Zepa, as part of the Higher Education Council”. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the approval of Justine Širina as a delegated representative of the Latvian Student Association in the composition of the Higher Education Council”. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U16	Section 66(1) of the Law on Higher Education establishes that the Council for Higher Education consists of one delegated representative from the Latvian Student Association, and according to the second sentence of Section 68 of the Law on Higher Education, the term of office of the student representative is two years. Given that the term of office of the representative of the Latvian Student Association Arcadija Zvaigzne as a member of the Higher Education Council approved on 22 December 2016 will end on 22 December 2016, the Latvian Students’ Association has delegated Justīne Širina to work in the Higher Education Council by letter of 19 November 2018. Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis has led this candidacy for approval in the Saeima. The Saeima Education, Culture and Science Commission examined this candidacy and prepared a draft decision to approve Justīne Širina, a delegated representative of the Student Association of Latvia, in the composition of the Higher Education Council, stating that the decision will enter into force on 22 December 2018. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this decision to be approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of the delegated representative of the Latvian Student Association Justīne Širina as part of the Higher Education Council”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, the Head of Delegation and the Deputy Head of Delegation. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation, the Head of Delegation and the Deputy Head of Delegation of the Baltic Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference by the Latvian delegation and the Head of Delegation. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference by the Latvian delegation and the Head of Delegation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation and the Head of Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation and the Head of Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation, the Head of Delegation and the Deputy Head of Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation, the Head of Delegation and the Deputy Head of Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation, Head of Delegation and Deputy Head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation, head of delegation and deputy head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian National Group and Group of Interparliamentary Union. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian National Group and Group of Interparliamentary Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation and the Head of Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation and the Head of Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is "Proposals for continuing the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima". In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses”. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U18	Good morning, colleagues! In the Commission, we examined the draft law drafted by the previous Saeima, entitled ‘The Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses’. Let me tell you a little about the meaning and nature of the bill. Forced shared property in Latvia has developed in the process of land reform and privatisation of state and municipal property, when ownership of previously owned land was restored to former owners within its historical limits. And in this process it was possible... according to the law, under the laws and regulations governing land reform, former land owners or their heirs had the right to choose – to request the restoration of land ownership rights, to request the transfer or assignment of an equivalent plot of land to be used or to receive compensation in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law. If we analyse only the specific cases related to apartment houses, then we can see that this scheme has created a situation with us that 3677 apartment houses are located... 3677 land properties... on them there are 110 thousand - more than 110 thousand - apartments... is currently in such forced land lease relationships. If we value money, then the value of these lands on which these apartments are located varies, according to the Ministry, from EUR 130 to EUR 180 million. Of all the previous draft laws, when this situation arose, it is clear that the forced distribution of property was originally meant to be a temporary situation which should be brought to an end. But, as we can see now, nothing has come to an end. There is a very great problem that citizens find it very difficult to agree. The current legal order also provides for pre-emption rights and various other instruments that would allow citizens to get out of this situation themselves, but unfortunately this does not happen in practice. There's a pre-emption right for the house... apartment owners who are very difficult to use. They require a one-hundredth of a vote. In practice, though, we have situations in which it is often impossible to obtain a decision from all the owners of the apartments on a matter, because some of them are located outside the country, some are dead and the succession process has not finished or there are no guardians. There are also different practical life cases – simply a landbook has not been settled or something else, why it is impossible to perform for purely practical reasons, and it should be taken into account that the largest house in Latvia now has 400 apartments, and then collecting a hundred percent vote is practically impossible. The 2015 draft law was also presented to the Commission, so the Commission decided to support one of these draft laws. We are looking at the draft law drawn up by the Commission. I will tell you about the major differences from the draft 2015 law, which the Commission decided not to support. So, unlike the 2015 draft law, this draft law provides for the existence of an unlimited right of redemption - the possibility for owners to privatise multi-apartment residential buildings. Also, unlike the 2015 draft law, it is planned to waive the strengthening of the mortgage in favour of unpaid apartment owners. And since the right of redemption will be open-ended, there is a real potential for all owners of apartment houses and landowners to combine property. This contrasts with the 2015 draft law, which already provided for in the same draft law. That could only be 35 percent. The draft law also provides for the possibility to provide support for apartment owners to raise funding for the payment of the purchase price. And about the bill itself. The main points of the draft law cover such a framework. It introduces special right of redemption on the basis of law for owners of forced-for-sale property on the land to be bought; order and principle on how the land to be bought is determined and registered and how the price of the land to be bought is calculated; order and rules on how owners of multi-apartment houses exercise their right of purchase; state right to provide support to owners of apartment houses in order to obtain funding for payment of the price of the purchase; right of association of apartment owners to conclude a contract on behalf of owners of all apartments in order to obtain funding for payment of the purchase price; essential conditions for the cadastral measurement of the land to be bought and land owners of the land to be sold; procedure and rules for strengthening the ownership of the land to be bought in the land book; order of payment of the price to land owners of the land to be bought; and persons who benefit from strengthening the mortgage on the protection of the rights of the land to be sold. These are the basic principles of this draft law, which the Commission has decided to adopt. However, on behalf of the Commission, I must also say that the Commission has mentioned various other versions of how to deal with this problem, so we have agreed that we will hold a broader discussion. It could also be a conference where we will analyse different ideas at expert level, speak out in order to reach a common vision of how to address this issue. I would remind you that it has not been possible to resolve this issue for more than 20 years, so a rather serious, concrete approach needs to be taken in terms of the main possible directions. Possible directions - I'll mention two... additional versions, e.g. state or local government buys out these properties to the public. Such an option also exists, which, of course, pays for something. It is also possible that the owner himself buys out only his part - such a version also exists. All these options we'll look at... Let us also take a look at the meetings of the commission. It is also important to mention that the ransom price contained in this draft law is appropriate. And the annotation also indicates that this assessment is in compliance with Article 105 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia (on disposal). The European Court of Human Rights has also pointed out that forced expropriation of immovable property usually requires compensation, the amount of which is reasonable or linked to its value. This has been done in this case. Thank you. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Law on the Termination of Forced Divided Property in Privatised Apartment Houses” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 89, for - no, for - 1. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U20	March 13th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U21	13 March, huh? Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 13 March 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. Consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” submitted to the Saeima. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U22	Colleagues! This draft law is related to the previous draft law. I'll try to tell you a little shorter about it. It should be noted that these issues have been addressed five times in the Constitutional Court, so today I tell all about this, because this law is likely to come to the Constitutional Court after we accept it. There are many stakeholders with different views there. This draft law is linked... This draft law will also incorporate a norm that... interest paid in cases where the population is unable to reach an agreement. At the moment, the Saeima has set three percent... the gradual path to three per cent which the Constitutional Court has abolished, justifying that these per cent have been determined without any more thorough assessment of the draft law. Now the Commission has decided to carry out a more thorough assessment and to return to these norms. I therefore call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U23	Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U24	13 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U25	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 13 February 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Karina Sprūde.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U26	The proposed wording of Section 14, first paragraph of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials clarifies the definition of donation, stating that donations may be considered to be property, including financial resources, service, rights and other types of benefit. These amendments to the law provide that donation within the meaning of this Law shall be considered as a public legal relationship between a donor and an institution of a public person which has accepted the donation. Please support this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of public officials” (No. Further examination of 150/Lp13). In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U28	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 13 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U29	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted by 13 February 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. No. of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials” submitted to the Saeima 156/Lp13). On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Karina Sprūde.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U30	It is provided that officials, officials of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior system and of the administration of prison places with special service grades and other state officials referred to in Article 7(6) of the Law shall have the right to freely combine the position of a state official with the position in the trade union without requiring the permission of the head of the institution of a public person, as well as Article 4 of the Law clarifies the concept of a state official. The first paragraph of Article 4 of the law defines certain positions of public officials, such as officials, soldiers, members of the Saeima, municipal council members whose importance depends on the scope of their mandate. Currently, the law does not set a time limit for public access to declarations. At present, both declarations made by public officials who have ceased their duties long ago and even those who have died are available to the public. Given that in such cases there is no legal basis for public access to these personal data, the draft law provides that the declarations are made publicly available for a period of five years from the date of publication of the relevant declaration. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U31	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of public officials” (No. 156/Lp13) continuing the examination 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Are Members opposed to this commission being held accountable? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U32	Deadline for submission of proposals - 13 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U33	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted by 13 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to Land Management Law” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U34	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined 12. The draft law ‘Amendments to the Land Management Law’ submitted to the Saeima and supported further consideration of the draft law. 13 In the family. The amendments provide for clarification of the conditions for changing the land use category depending on the land quality assessment, address municipal issues as well as the ownership of the units of land included in the reserve land fund after their assessment of their jurisdiction to the State. A new procedure is also foreseen for soil monitoring for agricultural and forestry land. On the basis of Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission asks 13. Further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to Land Management Law” in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U36	We offer a deadline - January 18, 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U37	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 18 January 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Daniel Pavluts, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U38	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined from 12. The draft law “Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries”, inherited by the Saeima, has been prepared and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. It will be a completely new law. I have to say that a similar draft law or an attempt to regulate the real estate brokerage industry... The fourth parliamentary term is working with it, as we were informed, so it has been working for quite a long time. I would not like to delay this time, I would like to deal with this issue. Why is this important? This issue concerns the prevention of money laundering, since the real estate brokers, which are the subject of that legislation, are also dealt with in that regard. This issue is also linked to the shadow economy, because, as you can imagine, there are large deals in the real estate sector. And if these transactions take place in an unregistered, illegal manner with cash, then a lot of money goes past the Treasury. The draft law provides for the development, creation of legal bases for this sector and for the supervision of professional activities. It is intended to register real estate brokers or those we know as brokers. They may be both natural and legal persons, but they will have to register their economic activities if they are natural persons. It is absolutely imperative that written contracts be concluded. An act without a written contract would constitute a criminal offence that is excluded from the register. There are also a number of other things - let's say, professional responsibility, occupational insurance and so on. Let us look into this draft law in the Commission, let us talk to the sector that has participated in it. Please support the examination of the draft law 13. In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U39	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U40	Good morning, honourable colleagues! In this 13th as well. At the Saeima sitting, we have to decide on the transposition of several draft laws from 12. The Saeima. And one such draft law is also the “Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries”. But unlike a number of other draft laws to be adopted... At the meeting of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, when examining the question of taking over this draft law, it became clear that even the representatives of the four ministries who made themselves known about this draft law do not understand what this draft law is about and how this law will be implemented in life. There was no consensus, everyone spoke something else. Similarly, according to the letters received, there is a difference of opinion in the sector as well. Faced with the need to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, it is envisaged to burden natural and legal persons with an enormous administrative burden in various ways to help large market players to limit competition and generate additional profits. For example, a person who shows an apartment to a potential buyer on behalf of the owner will need to register in a special register, which will be maintained by an unknown supervisory authority, will have to pay a state fee for the registration, will have to purchase a compulsory insurance policy, covering the risk of his professional activity, carrying out a customer research before the conclusion of a service contract, conclude a contract with the customer only in writing, participate in unknown, most likely, qualification measures organised by large companies in the sector, of course paying a reasonable fee for their attendance. At the beginning of each year, a report should also be provided on all service contracts concluded during the previous year, with details of the training measures visited, of course. Why should a broker be required to perform the duties of other bodies without appropriate competence and capacity, for example by examining whether the potential client carries out illegal activities? This could also be the case for real estate owners or managers! Such verification is simply not possible with the information available to the broker. Of course, a purely formal broker may require the customer to complete a regular questionnaire and to load these questionnaires in his office. The data in the questionnaire will in no way be verified, but the supervisory authority that is not named on behalf will delegate a large part of its functions over time (and I think this is the hidden purpose of the law) to the association of large market players. It will then be possible to check whether all documents have been filled in purely formally, but if not, of course, to punish and punish them. It is naive to imagine that such a restriction on the free market will limit money laundering or terrorist financing in the interests of some of the large real estate brokers. It is unlikely that a hypothetical broker, who wishes to serve criminals and their cash, will carry out any registration, formalise his activities or otherwise enlighten himself in any Latvian institution. As regards real estate transactions, it should be noted that already now the transactions are registered in the Land Register and cannot be done without the participation of a notary. In addition, settlement takes place through banks that have put in place strict control. It could therefore be said that there are already filters in place to prevent and clearly identify and reduce the risks of money laundering. If someone wants to improve the quality of the broker's services, it is more important to talk to the relevant associations about what to do, for example, to promote voluntary certification of brokers? What kind of support would the associations like to receive from the country in order to promote them? How to improve existing filters for money laundering risks by addressing notaries or banks that currently control all transactions very scrupulously? In my opinion, there has been a tendency in Latvia to introduce new and unthinkable regulations to the right and to the left in the last years of stagnation, so arguments to drive a new regulation of a particular sector, and one that has not even been agreed by the ministries themselves, should be very strong. Unfortunately, there is only a weak cover in this case, which serves as a reason for the creation of a monopoly in the private sector. This is not acceptable. In the light of all the above, but especially the conflicting attitude of the ministries with regard to this draft law, I call not to support the transposition of this draft law. 13 In the family and without restricting competition, suppressing private initiative, increasing administrative burdens and strengthening bureaucracy in the private sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U41	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U42	Colleagues, once again about this bill. As far as I know, this draft law was created in the previous Saeima by the Commission itself and together with non-governmental organisations, which was supported by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. But at present, there is no real monitoring mechanism for these real estate players. All these instruments, in my opinion, are very ineffective both from the tax... from the State Revenue Service, from the point of view of tax collection and from the point of view of supervision of other institutions. You know... What is happening here and what is the story? Well, one thing is, if we're talking about some rich millionaires that buy each other's property, and what happens in their business mediation... and whether illegal matters do not occur there. The other thing is that, when it comes to the major part of society, it is about people who are absolutely the biggest deal in their lives, this real estate transaction. And now these transactions can be consulted, handled by absolutely anyone, and perhaps this is why we often read and hear in the press about cases of fraud, abuse of some kind of ignorance. That, in my opinion, is not acceptable. The draft law is about imposing an obligation: if you do it professionally, then register so that you are not in some grey area, but in a white area! Register your activity in this market, improve your qualifications! There are a number of professions where there is a constant obligation to improve qualifications, whereas here, where people work with life savings, there is no such obligation at all. Practically anyone can go and do it. I do not think this is acceptable. One thing is selling a grandmother's house, but the other thing is doing this kind of business professionally, isn't it? And there should be some sort of qualifications here. I am not saying that this bill is perfect. I think that the deadline for tabling proposals should be long enough for Members to submit their proposals. Work on this draft law must continue. And such a law, that regulation, I think, must definitely be. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U43	Name to Member Daniel Pavilut.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U44	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that I am very pleased to hear the speech of my colleague, Mr Feldman, because now I am convinced that at least some Members in the New Conservative Party are very liberal - not to say, even liberally! - political views (Interface) that industries do not need to be regulated at all. That it is not a need to regulate sensibly and proportionately and not to impose an excessive penalty, it is not necessary to regulate at all. That you don't need a law. It was very interesting yesterday. At the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, where we talked about this draft law, the question was asked: "Well but why for so long - why is the fourth parliamentary term that this draft law is being drawn long?" One of the answers from the ministries (and then the entire commission laughed!) , it was that, in the past, one of the members of the committee, members of the Saeima, by themselves, through this industry, i.e. through it, was acting in an unregistered manner, and that was the reason why to pull it in length. I can only mention at this point why our colleagues from the New Conservative Party want to drag the matter in length and send it back. I understand that there may be concerns about over-regulation, but then we look at it in the commission, we decide on reasonable regulation! The industry is here. We're welcome, we're having a discussion! We set reasonable regulation! If someone wants to sell his own real estate, no intermediaries need to be involved. But if you do it professionally, it would be reasonable to register an economic activity, pay taxes and take responsibility for the fact that money on real estate transactions is not being carried on, say, in the purchasing network... in a plastic network - cash. So I am calling for this matter to be addressed. And I call on you, however, to look at the draft law and support the decision of the Commission. Thank you. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U45	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U46	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Yes, yesterday in the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we had quite a long discussion about this draft law. And I'd like to say that we actually talked about some intermediary firms representing a buyer or a seller. But we forget about the buyer himself, which Mr. Pavilut has already mentioned here. In fact, we need to think about citizens. Very many people have been deceived over time because this area is not organised and regulated. And here I must say, if we are talking about the laundering of the proceeds of crime, it must be combated. If we oppose the fact that this area is being arranged, it means that we support the fact that someone is washing money. We are in favour of cheating people. And then I think it's so interesting that some come here with already prepared speeches. Those who do not want the sector to be organised may also prepare these speeches for them, so that they can have a good argument and stand up against them.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U47	Mr. Riekstin, will you have enough debate with... Yeah. Are you... Is that so? The debate is held for 15 minutes. Will you have enough time to debate? That's enough? The name is Sandy Riekstin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U48	Hello, colleagues! My speech is not prepared, as you see, Mr Krauze. You should be serious a little bit once. It is not about the fact that we are opposed to regulation at all. It is about this particular regulation, which is pickled up already in the fourth Saeima and is obviously a lame and faint. Now why should we accept it and try to laivify all of this through the fourth Saeima? If four ministries cannot agree with each other normally... Let them agree! Let it be processed! Get a normal bill, and then we'll talk about it! Not now, when it turns out that you're... I like, of course, that colleagues also know in what bags this money is being carried. Nice! Well, I don't know. And it's not just... You are talking about the private people that we need to protect them. If I'm abroad, let's assume the acquaintance will ask him to sell his apartment... What am I supposed to do now? Do you want to register in all these registers? Who's going to monitor me for just one deal? Let's fix it! And I have the opposite question, colleagues: why is the ZZS pushing this so much?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U49	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U50	You see it! I can say, the first speech in the debate, and there has already been such a discussion! I think this is not accidental. And it is also not an accident that the STECF Members come up here after each other and tell us how the rule of law should be joined and regulated, because this sector is so horrified. Four Saeima could not do anything in this regard. But now? Oh, no! Something has happened during the pre-elections, and now you all come straight and say that this must be done. I invite you to pay attention to this, and that will not end so much! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U51	Mr. Zarins, you're going to have a debate with 10 minutes? Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U52	Colleagues! A few issues in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy have been discussed as much as this specific draft Law on the Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries. In my opinion, even the OIC within the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has not been discussed as much as this issue. Indeed, it is mixed. You have heard this debate, and you see that this is actually a question... There are many unanswered, many rotten and many strange things. The problem is that it really should sort out this sector in some way and address its problems. What we are offering - as we will do today - is we will support this draft law being taken over by this Saeima so that it can face up to all these questions and force the Cabinet to answer all these strange things. It was also its position, why the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy decided to take over this draft law - that the first step will be to ask the Cabinet to come with its position and explain all these strange things. Let's clean up this sector and go on!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U53	The name to Member Daniel Pavilut, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U54	Hello again! It's very short. Here it was said that at the commission meeting, the ministries had come with contradictory views. I can just warn our fellow Members, who have not experienced this situation before, that this will be the case. The government quite often, sometimes and then, comes up with draft laws on which the ministries are still discussing before the Saeima Members, and continues to fight for issues that could not have been dealt with by the government. This is the norm of the Latvian public administration. Since this fact should not in any way be used as an argument. With regard to why the issue should still be on the move, I will mention another point. Probably everyone will have heard such a concept as Moneyval's opinion and recommendations for Latvia. So there is a time period in which Latvia, which has not been able to cope with banking regulation for many years, with the financial sector in general, with the prevention of money laundering and so on... This draft law can also be seen in this context. We have quite little time. I invite you to look at the committee, to move, to discuss everything that is to be discussed, to agree on reasonable regulation, to answer the unclear questions, and to understand whether the concerns that have been expressed are justified. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U55	I closed the debate. And now, on behalf of the Commission, is there something else to be added when it comes to representing the Commission's opinion? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law on the “Activities of Real Estate Intermediaries” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U56	The Commission shall request the deadline for the submission of proposals on 21 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U57	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted by 21 February 2019. Dear colleagues, Since the parliamentary presidency and the Fraces Council are scheduled for a break, I call for a break to be decided at the moment. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev. Tell me again about the break.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U58	Good morning, honourable Members! At 10:35 on our decision to convene the Saeima Presidium meeting together with the Fraction Council to decide on our vacation...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U59	Intersessional break.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U60	... I took an intersessional session, I apologize, and about the work of the Analytical Service... Yes, I ask the presidents of all the groups to come to the Red Hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U61	Time for notifications. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U62	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission will hold its extraordinary sitting, because there are a couple of appropriations that we should do with. So that all members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission are asked to meet in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U63	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U64	Colleagues who are in the group of Members to facilitate cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliament! After five minutes, I invite you to the meeting in the Yellow Hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U65	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U66	Dear Members of the Saeima delegation to the Baltic Assembly! 10.35 A delegation meeting in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U67	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U68	Not registered: Dagmara Beitnere-Le Galla... And, Boris Cylevich... ( Independence: “No. Comande.’ ), Jānis Dombrava, Artuss Neiminis... ( The box “Sick! ”) “How do you know?” ), Maris Kučinskis, Andris Skride... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U69	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U70	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendment to the Health Care Financing Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U71	Hello, colleagues! Draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U72	Wait, Mr. Skride, let's not start! May colleagues sit down and stop the negotiations.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U73	Colleagues! The draft law "Amendment to the Health Care Financing Act" was designed to address the health crisis. The essence of the draft law is to incorporate into the transitional provisions of the Health Care Financing Law political commitment to continue to ensure the increase of funding for health care professionals by 20 percent in 2019-2021 in order to ensure the availability of health care services at least in the current amount and to improve it in the future, both by attracting new specialists and by promoting the return to work of medical professionals who are currently working in other areas. According to the data provided by the hospitals, in 2018, increasing the remuneration of treatment providers has attracted new employees, but it is also clear that the remuneration is still critically low. This is demonstrated both by the crisis of NMPD and by the statement of the Latvian Hospital Society on the crisis situation from 1 January 2019. Failure to comply with the political commitment to continue raising wages is expected to result in a significant reduction in the number of medical staff leading to a crisis with the lack of access to services and the closure of departments not only in district hospitals but also in university hospitals. In cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, sources of financing required by the draft law have been found to a large extent. According to information provided by the Ministry of Health, this policy decision will be possible through the adoption of these amendments. And the Commission also calls for urgency to be given to the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U74	Thank you. The Commission therefore urges that the draft law be declared urgent. Mr. Eglitis, do you want to debate urgency? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Financing of Health Care”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. And let's start a debate on the bill. Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U75	Dear colleagues, I think none of us here have any doubt that medical workers should increase their pay. However, account should be taken of the issue of fiscal discipline, because we have not yet received any information from the Ministry of Finance on how these EUR 87 million could be covered and what these compensatory measures will be. A number of proposals have been made to change GDP forecasts there. This is a bad thing, I'll say it right away. That is something that Mr Dombrovskis has also criticised. There is also another event mentioned... The shadow economy, too... In order to count the shadow economy into compensatory measures, there must be really very, very specific work that will be done. And I'll say right away that in Brussels, the European Commission, where Latvia's budget for 2019 will also be assessed, when it is drawn up, such events will most probably be cast back. However, I would also like to remind you of the issue of fiscal discipline in this context. The Minister for Finance mentioned a moment ago that the fiscal space was with little minus. Now the fiscal space is with a lot of minuses. And to the new government, I heard... Well, the candidate has a budgetary arrangement for the deficit. Well, with such decisions, it will, of course, become more and more difficult. We will support, but let us remember fiscal discipline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U76	Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U77	Colleagues! The winter solstice is approaching, and we always wish our loved ones good health first. Of course, it should be remembered that good health is often not possible without sanitation, nurses, or doctors. But they are actually doing their job right now on the edge of the burnout and often really for free. And what the Social and Labour Commission is already doing to audit existing expenditure, let us say. We will conduct a rigorous review of spending in university hospitals; let us see what administrative expenditure is. So it's going on in addition... without the demand for these funds... Significant audit work is also ongoing. We are looking at how these funds are used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U78	The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U79	High honourable Members! The Social and Labour Affairs Commission worked very closely with this draft law. Believe me, we are not hurters who are trying to bring us into some sort of trouble with the Fiscal Discipline Council or the European Commission. Our commission was attended by two ministers, the Minister for Welfare and the Minister for Health. There were guarantees that our proposal would also be discussed in the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and the money would soon be found. Clearly, the doctors are waiting for this step from us. 87 million is not a big money when we talk about years and wages. Very much money (Sitting Manager knocked down with a hammer.) will return through taxes to the state budget. Believe me, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, has assessed all risks through this draft law. And later on, as far as I know... and the information in the public space was... The Minister of Finance agreed with the Health Ministers that the money in the next year's budget will be, and will be, a corresponding increase as of 1 January. I do not see any risks in voting in favour of this draft law today by unanimity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U80	I closed the debate. Mr Skride, do you want to explain something else or add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U81	No, on behalf of the commission, I don't want to add anything anymore.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U82	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Financing of Health Care"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U83	If Members do not object, we could vote on this draft law at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U84	So at first reading, we supported it. Does one of the Members object to the fact that the draft law is being examined at the sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible? There is no objection. The Commission also calls for support for final reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on the financing of health care! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Corporate Income Tax Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Lubova Švecova.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U85	Hello! See document No. 44B. The Commission has received three proposals. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U86	Members are in favour. 1. is a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U87	2. There is also a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U89	3. - Mr. Pouce's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U90	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U91	Dear colleagues, Highly honored colleagues! Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! However, contrary to the recommendation of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I would have been asked to support my proposal. This is aimed at solving a very important problem in one society at present. This is a problem that has been discussed since mid-2017, when, as part of the tax reform, there was a significant change in the regulation of donations support in tax legislation. Since then, the forecasts made by non-governmental organisations have more than been fulfilled. Donations to non-governmental organisations have decreased by two to three times this year, depending on the area, and this has happened in almost all areas of activities of non-governmental organisations - culture, sport, social welfare... There is a significant lack of resources everywhere. The programmes are closed, all kinds of strange solutions are being searched for to continue something. But the overall effect... without significant State aid through tax instruments... Not possible. We talked about this at the Commission's sitting and shared our views on this issue. Unfortunately, no majority was obtained. Some of the 'no' colleagues said that they are already in principle in favour of dealing with this issue, but it would be good if it were to be dealt with in the framework of the budget when looking at it together. Then it would be solved, and that would be the case. Colleagues! We will probably adopt the budget for next year in a few months. But - throughout this period, it will have an impact on the activities of non-governmental organisations. Non-governmental organisations as a whole are currently losing ground under their feet. There is a request to support this proposal so that even in part, we restore the possibility for non-governmental organisations to receive donations from companies. This proposal, of course, has a fiscal impact. There is no doubt about this. However, without fiscal impact, the support of non-governmental organisations is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U92	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U93	Colleagues! I call for this proposal not to be supported, just as it was not supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The idea of Mr Pouce's proposal is a good one: to support public benefit organisations, but I do not think that the performance is too good, as two considerations show. First. This proposal has a negative fiscal impact of around 13.9 million. This means that, with these decisions and decisions such as yesterday, for example, abolishing the solidarity tax and creating a fiscal deficit of between EUR 42 and 45 million, we are essentially torpedoing the process of building a government. Because anyone who comes and tries to agree on government priorities will understand that the starting position is with a huge minus. Content. At present there are quite a lot of donation options, there are three options. A part of the calculated tax on distributed profits may be diverted. Even if profits are not distributed, part of them can be diverted to donations without tax. Even if the company has no profit, certain interest can be passed on to donations from the wage fund. But the most important thing is the second. Colleagues, when we implemented the corporate tax reform, one of the essential prerequisites was to motivate companies to accumulate their own capital and become more competitive, not to use companies to carry out non-economic expenses - to pay for expensive cars, yachts and other services. One example that motivated us in particular to implement this reform is the conversation that has been heard when we stand in the supermarket queue. Two ladies are talking. One tells the other about her having a plastic operation. And the other, after considering it, asks: “Well, wasn’t it expensive?” And the first one says, “Well, it was, but I put it on the company.” Unfortunately, it has been a rather widespread practice that such and other products, services, are paid by businesses, working at a loss and not paying taxes. The essence of Mr Pouce's proposal is not only to increase the percentage of aid received, but also to allow the donation to be diverted from so-called non-economic expenditure, from the tax due. Example: We buy expensive Maserati or Porsche - a tax has to be paid, but in this case their tax could be passed on to donations and perhaps also to very friendly organisations. This is not too economical and it is not, in my opinion, acceptable and runs counter to the meaning of tax reform: to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U94	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U95	Highly honored colleagues, let us be consistent! We have just unanimously supported the allocation of more than EUR 80 million to medical salaries. If we have such fiscal opportunities in our fiscal space, of course, we can also help to resolve the crisis in the field of sport, where funding from donations has fallen by about 50 per cent. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the applicant is now “right” – from the “right” party, with the “right” name and surname. For example, when the same proposal was tabled by Andrejs Klementyev, it was rejected. On reducing medical fees... Commission-supported... But this time... Juris Pūce is not a member of the Group at least for the time being, and I therefore call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U96	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U97	Dear colleagues, The author of the proposal is of course right and can agree with him, since the wording of the first paragraph of Article 12 of the Enterprise Income Tax Act, entitled ‘Tax relief for donors’, which was supported. 12 During the Saeima, there is a significant reduction in the possibilities of donating to public benefit organisations and the NGO sector as a whole. In the past, companies received more substantial income tax relief, but now businesses have practically no incentive to donate. In turn, the granting of grants from public authorities and public undertakings raises a number of questions, such as the process of selecting applicants for funding. And there is reason to believe that this process is very controversial and opaque. And it is not always clear what criteria state authorities are. Reasons for the adoption of such amendments 12. During the Saeima (these reasons were just repeated by the Minister for Finance) are not original - fiscal effects and budgeters' salaries. But the result is that at present, various types of incentive support mechanisms are practically unavailable so that entrepreneurs and other taxpayers choose to make donations to public benefit organisations. And now... Now, in recent months, entrepreneurs are refusing to donate, for example, folk song and dance collectives, cultural associations, amateur sports clubs and so on. I believe that there is no need to counter the educational, health, cultural and sporting sectors and try to match different tsunamis. In my opinion, this is a very unfair and short-sighted position. I therefore call for support for proposal 3, which aims at providing donors with real tax relief. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U98	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U99	Hello, dear colleagues! Well, talking about that... which we amended 12. In the family and with which the sport sector is very dissatisfied. At the end of September, an extraordinary session was held at the General Assembly of the Latvian Olympic Committee to find out who will be with donors for the sports sector. And the conclusion was that in 2018, the sports industry had not received about two million euros. The next year, it may be that in the sport sector, which is solely dependent on its donors, it will be 10 million. Why is the tax system very important for the sport sector? Because it is financed by the State, but the funding is not sufficient. And we are grateful to all those who donated, both those who were in the 1990s and those who are in the 21st century. Very many sports teams and individual athletes live from donor money. Since athletes cannot receive the donation money, already this year very many did not participate in either the world's cup or official competitions. The next year is before the Olympic year. There will be the Olympic Games in Tokyo in 2020. This year the Olympic qualification begins. If we do not complete the Olympic qualification, it will mean that in many sports... We will not see Latvia's flag in the Olympic village and Olympic site in Tokyo. That's how much more than 10 million we're going to lose. So I ask you to support proposal 3 so that athletes still have financial support from sponsors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U100	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission to clarify the Commission's position? None. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Poke's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U101	Request for a vote on the draft law. Request to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U102	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Corporate Income Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U103	Dear colleagues, Today the second, final, reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” (document No. 33/Lp13). Two proposals have been received. The proposal is presented by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U105	The proposal was submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U107	Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U108	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U109	Good morning, colleagues! In its meeting of 4 December, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs decided to continue to examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund”. The aim of the amendments is to ensure uniform planning and coordination of public integration policy, optimal monitoring of the Society Integration Fund and effective functioning of the Fund Council, as well as to promote transparency and use of state budget funding in line with the objectives set in the policy planning documents. Importantly, the draft law also provides for the removal of existing conflicts in the sector, namely competition from SIF for financing with other NGOs. At the Commission's meeting on 4 December this year, Members heard representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Director of SIF, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, as well as representatives of the NGO industry. Undoubtedly, it will be necessary to look for better solutions, but I would like to emphasise that this is an extremely important draft law, and on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the continuation of the examination of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Integration of Society Fund".
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U110	At first reading, the Commission asks for support. Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Dace Melbārde.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U111	Hello, colleagues! As you know, the Society Integration Fund is an important instrument for implementing policies which finance a number of programmes of integration of society and civic participation, including support programmes for non-governmental organisations. The SIF is also administered by individual media fund programmes. For a long time, the sector of non-governmental organisations, the ministries represented in the Council, as well as the studies carried out indicate the need to make urgent changes to SIF activities. I will also inform you about some of the things that I myself, as a member of the Council, have observed on several occasions. The SIF has regular difficulties in organising the work of the Board on the ground, as there is no quorum. There are six ministers in the Council that cannot be replaced because the law does not allow it at the moment, while the SIF Secretariat is unable to be able quickly enough... coordinating the agenda and the meetings in a timely manner so that ministers can plan it and attend its meetings. The law requires that there should be at least four on-the-spot meetings per year. There have been only two this year because it has simply not been possible to arrange it. As a result, many issues are dealt with electronically, and there is, in substance, no discussion on important issues. Similarly, the SIF Secretariat has not been able to restore the full composition of the Council during the six-month period, and non-governmental organisations have still not been completed in the necessary numbers. The rules of procedure of the Fund shall provide for the Council to approve the operational strategy of the SIF. There has been no such strategy since 2016, and I do not remember any strategic negotiations at all on the agenda of the Council over a period of five years. And it is also not clear how the Council's strategy is now kept pace with the adopted public policy. In five years I've never seen that the return on SIF's operations would be measured by anything... at least policy indicators that would make it possible to understand how SIF activities affect policy. The amendments will provide the Cabinet of Ministers with practical tools to implement institutional supervision. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers will approve the fund's regulations, which will lay down detailed requirements on how the fund should be organised, and will therefore also require the development of a strategy. The replacement of ministers is also foreseen. The amendments to the law also provide for rotation of the responsible officials, which will be extended to both the chairman of the fund and the director of the secretariat. The procedure for reviewing decisions of the SIF Secretariat will be facilitated. NGOs will be able to appeal against any decisions of the secretariat at the beginning of their appeal to the SIF Council, and the situation will no longer be the same as it is at the moment - that SIF is being tried by a non-governmental organisation for unfortunately insufficiently justified termination of the contract. So I am calling for these amendments to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U112	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U113	Dear colleagues, When deciding on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund”, account should also be taken of the experience gained by the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity in the previous Saeima in addressing integration issues. Members have always stood up for the Society Integration Fund as a strong administrator, a financial channel for concrete projects and a competition manager. In my opinion, the amendment of the SIF law should also maintain this direction. It is not the task of the Foundation Council to define a new integration policy, but to ensure the best possible administration. Article 7 of the draft law - on the procedure for challenging the administrative acts and the actual actions adopted by the secretariat of the Foundation - is therefore very welcome. 12. Members of the Saeima were forced to engage in several meetings of the SIF and the Society “Shelter “Safe House”” in a dispute about the termination of the concluded agreement with the Society “Shelter “Safe House”” on the provision of social workers and social mentors services to asylum seekers and persons with refugee or alternative status, as the Board of the Society Integration Foundation did not address this issue in due time. The situation was further complicated by competition between SIF itself and the society “Shelter “Safe House”” in competition for providing another service to support immigrants. This aspect - and the exclusion of SIF and NGOs from competition in tenders for the execution of services - is another task of the draft law. The SIF as a money-sharingr with its administrative capacity must not start up in single competitions with NGOs and be eligible for funding. This is not equal competition. For example, SIF applied for the European Economic Area and Norway Financial Instruments Programme NGO Foundation in Latvia for the performance of the operator's functions from 2019 to 2020. In order to avoid such situations, Article 7 of the Law shall be supplemented by a fifth paragraph in the following wording: “The activities of the Fund as a beneficiary of funding shall be allowed only by coordination of the Council of the Fund and the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers.” Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U114	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U115	Colleagues! I fully share the information and views that have been expressed. It is true that there are many problems, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that various proposals have been made, including the proposal to introduce a more far-reaching reform and change status. I think it is very risky. At the moment, it is important for us to support the draft law that is being driven, because the problems with the SIF are very, very serious. Organisations come to the Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity, and both sides come and talk about problems. Of course, this is a very, very complicated issue. But if we start working completely anew with some new design, we will set up working groups and do nothing for a year or one and a half years. I think that the first step is to support the proposals that have been formulated. At the same time, however, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Legal Office has pointed to five issues that we should definitely think about. And also SIF, without denying... at times denying that there are problems... The SIF also discusses issues that should be addressed. Yesterday we had a meeting of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity, which dealt with the issue of SIF. That's your information, too... was told about the fact that although SIF is supposed to accumulate money and pass on to non-governmental organizations... We were told about two ministries that no longer gave money to SIF. So the situation is interesting. The budget is reserved for money transferred to the ministries, and the ministries decide how to spend it further, organise competitions and pass it on. Then the question arises: do we need a SIF as if the ministries themselves are over? We are blaming SIF - and rightly we are blaming! - that the organization is engaged in the organisation of competitions and is trying to manage... to execute the work... That is absolutely wrong. But I agree with the SIF that the situation with the ministers is also strange. If, for example, in integration matters money is given to the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture itself organises competitions, it is also questionable... And other ministries as well... So, what do I mean, in principle? Let us move forward with this draft law, let us work on it, but let us also think about other issues that are all related to it. SIF is very, very necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U116	I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission? No, no. The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Integration Fund! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -69, for -1, for -16. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U117	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U118	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, first reading. Jānis Dombrava was presented as rapporteur of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. I don't see Mr. Dombrava in the hall. Mr President of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, please address the situation! There is no rapporteur to speak on behalf of the Commission. Either designate another rapporteur, or report to yourself, or this draft law will be discussed at the end of the sitting. ( Internouncing call.) So it's... Please turn on the microphone... ( Interjection: “Let him come to report to the tribunal! ” ) Report next. I think other rapporteurs will mean. No, no. So, on behalf of the Commission, Member Jānis Dūklavs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Klementjevs: “Tell us about the essence! What is the draft law about?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U119	Dear colleagues, The first reading was supported. No proposals. It's funny. Substitution: ‘A what is the draft law about?’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U120	The report is exhaustive. ( Merry laughter.) Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Dūklavs: “Thanks! Very good!” . It's laughter.) Mr. Duklav, please come back! Please indicate the deadline for submitting the proposals... on behalf of the Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U121	Deadline for the submission of proposals... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I (Laughter) 10 January ( Insight: “Which year? ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U122	Thank you. Proposals (Dep. J. Dūklavs: ‘2019’. ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 of 22 October 2007 establishing a common organisation of Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U123	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! High honourable Members! The Education, Culture and Science Commission unanimously supported the first reading referral of this draft law. Briefly, the purpose of this draft law. In principle, the aim is to introduce a register of persons who have been issued certificates of recognition of education obtained abroad and to introduce a state test information system, as well as to provide that there are possible exceptions to the recognition of educational documents issued abroad in Latvia, if an international agreement on recognition has been concluded. In particular, if such an international agreement provides for a different procedure, then the Academic Information Centre will not have to carry out an expert examination of an education document issued abroad. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law on amendments to the Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U124	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U125	The Commission proposes setting the deadline for the second reading of the proposals on 21 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U126	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 December this year. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to Criminal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Juta Strike.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U127	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 5 December this year, the Legal Commission conceptually supported the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law is designed to ensure compliance of the regulatory framework with the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human organs, as well as to improve the regulation of the Criminal Law. The situation at the moment is that the Criminal Law already provides for responsibility for the removal of illegal organs in Latvia, but the convention I mentioned, given the problems that may not be specific to Latvia, but rather to China and international crime, makes it necessary for us to lay down additional rules concerning the trafficking of human organs. The criminal law is supplemented by norms such as the use of illegally removed organs for implantation or other purposes and also determines the protection of witnesses and additional norms for investigation. Please support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U128	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U129	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U130	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 7 January 2019. Dear colleagues, Members Augulis, Reizniece-Ozola, Reirs, Asheraden, Krauze, Kols, Dzintars and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Law”. Do Members have objections?... Thus, Members have already applied to speak about or against changes to the agenda. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U131	I call for the 'no' vote. We had a sufficiently serious discussion yesterday at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission on these amendments. We voted against the amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act. And I will explain what the main arguments were. First of all, the Minister of Finance himself yesterday, this law... the tax was referred to as ‘francenstein’. It shows that in these three years since this tax has been in existence, it has grown up in various ways, it has become so crazyly incomprehensible and so crazyly difficult to administer, with so great costs that now let it go... This miracle, the wonder of the old government... We're going to vote for such a craftsman, right? This goes against the principle that taxation should be simple, understandable and manageable. What is created is madness. Secondly, in October 2017 the Constitutional Court decided that amendments to this law should be made. For a whole year, the Ministry of Finance, I must say, slept, waited... I don't know what. And now, a few weeks before January 1, the Commission is trying to get through one of its proposals when it's... not... Even not to mention other options... only the highest 35 per cent, not to mention maybe 30 per cent, maybe 25 per cent. No other scenarios! Please, this is what we must vote on! So we, as Members, have not been given the opportunity to assess in the Commission what alternatives are still, whether there are other options and other ways of better continuing this tax... Thus, we have not had the opportunity, in substance, to evaluate this law and what is offered from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U132	Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U133	Colleagues! I call on you, in turn, to support the inclusion of this draft law on the agenda and its urgency, because it is important that the solidarity tax be paid from 1 January. Yesterday, the economies... The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission did not support the draft law proposed by the government, which would set out... ( Internouncing call.) The words were chosen: ‘to be done by the new government’. In essence, this means that from 1 January 3900 people (a little more) will not pay a solidarity tax. These are people whose monthly income exceeds EUR 6000. And the most interesting thing is that the political forces promised to reduce inequality before the elections... ( Internouncing call.) There were formulas: 500, 500, 500... to increase the minimum wage, non-eligible pension, non-eligible remuneration. The first work that political power is doing is getting up on the table and saying: there is no need for solidarity tax on those people who receive EUR 6000. I am asking for support for this draft law to be adopted before 1 January so that the solidarity tax is effective from 1 January. The new government will be able to come and make various improvements, but it will not have to start its starting position with less than 40 million in the next year's budget. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U134	Colleagues! We now need to decide on the inclusion of the draft law on the agenda of the sitting. One Member has spoken against, one for. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Solidarity Tax" on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 76, not by - 16, refrain by - no. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Juris Pūce.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U135	Good afternoon, colleagues! We are working on the draft law Amending the law on the renewal and resolution of the activities of credit institutions and investment firms. In our Saeima's register, this is document No. 19. This is linked to document No. 18 or the next item on the agenda - Amendments to the draft law on the market in financial instruments - as well as item 48 on the agenda. In particular, the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted a set of draft laws to transpose into Latvian laws the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, as well as to transpose the Directive on the... amending the Directive as regards the priority of unsecured debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. The draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms’ was examined by the Parliament’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and was endorsed for first reading. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U136	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Restoration and Resolution of the Activities of Credit Institutions and Investment firms! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U137	27 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U138	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 27 December of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Juris Pūce.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U139	As I have already reported on the previous point on the agenda, this draft law is also part of a legislative package aimed at transposing into Latvian law the directive on the priority of unsecured debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. The draft law was examined by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and supported by the first reading. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U140	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U141	27 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U142	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the law “On the declaration of cash at the state border”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U143	Colleagues! Under the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cash control, a person entering or leaving the territory of the European Union and holding cash in excess of EUR 10 000 is required to declare that amount. The current arrangements provide that the cash to be declared shall be converted into euro using the foreign exchange rate applicable at the beginning of the border crossing date in the accounts. Currently, the State Revenue Service is changing its technical system with which it intends to work by transferring this information from the Central Customs Information System to the EMDAS system in order to be easier to administer this work. There is a proposal to amend this law and to take into account the cash to be declared when converted into euro at the rate of foreign exchange published on the penultimate Wednesday of each month by the European Central Bank, which shall apply throughout the month from the first day of the following month. Thus, of course, the administrative burden would also be reduced and the system should not be changed. On the other hand, where a foreign currency that is not published by the ECB would be converted into the euro, the exchange rate of the world financial market-recognised financial information provider's periodical publication or published on its website in relation to the euro would be used. I call for support at first reading for the draft law "Amendment to the law on the declaration of cash at the national border" (No. 11/Lp13).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U144	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Declaration of Cash at the State Border”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U145	Two weeks, or December 27, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U146	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 27 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the recognition of the law on the management of the European Union structural funds as invalid”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U147	Hello, colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission has examined the draft law “On the recognition of the Law on the Management of Structural Funds of the European Union as invalid”. The 2004-2006 programming period for the European Union Structural and Cohesion Funds has therefore come to an end in substance. In order to reduce regulation, a draft law has been drawn up, which is intended to recognise the law on the management of the European Union Structural Funds, which has expired. The Commission has supported this proposal and I ask Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U148	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the recognition of the law on the management of the European Union structural funds as invalid! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U149	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U150	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the recognition of the EU Cohesion Fund project management law as invalid”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U151	We also examined this draft law at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. The eligibility period for expenditure for Cohesion Fund projects and the implementation of projects were due to expire on 31 December 2010. The Ministry of Finance, as the managing supervisor of the European Union Cohesion Fund, has produced and presented in November 2011 the European Commission's latest closure documents on the transfer of Cohesion Fund investments to the economy. In the second quarter of 2015, the European Commission made the last two final payments in Latvia, thus all 45 projects co-financed by the Cohesion Fund have been closed. As a result, in the field of transport and environment, the planning period of the European Union Cohesion Fund 2004-2006 in Latvia has actually finished and the Law on Project Management of the European Union Cohesion Fund and the laws underlying it are to be repealed. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has supported this draft law and calls on Members to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U152	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the recognition of the EU Cohesion Fund project management law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U153	Two weeks, or 27 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U154	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. And now, fellow Members, please pay attention! The draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions (No. 7/Lp13) submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and the alternative draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions (No. 79/Lp13), submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Dear colleagues, First, on behalf of the Commission, the commission rapporteur will report on both drafts, and then there will be a possibility to debate the two drafts together. And then we will also vote accordingly, first of all on the draft law tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers, which the Commission has called for to be rejected, and then on the alternative law tabled by the Commission. Please! On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Juris Pūce.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U155	So, dear colleagues, we are working on two draft laws on this issue. This is where the situation needs to be explained. Both of these draft laws are once again dealing with the same block of issues that I have already reported from the triangle, namely the transposition of the directive on the priority of unsecured debt instruments in the insolvency hierarchy. The budget and financial (tax) commission had to prepare an alternative draft law for purely legal reasons. In particular, while the draft law prepared by the Government went its way through the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Administration, the Law on Credit Institutions was amended, and the articles which the Government planned to amend with the draft law submitted were excluded from the law. They are now exhausted, and there are no such articles anymore. They are replaced by other articles in this law. Therefore, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has prepared an alternative draft law, which is in fact identical to the draft law submitted by the Government, only the area of regulatory enactments is arranged... rate... which are then amended by these specific laws... by the draft law drawn up. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax) I would have asked to reject, not to support the draft law prepared by the government and to support an alternative draft law which is identical in content and could also be moved forward in that form. Please support alternative draft legislation at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U156	Thank you. Colleagues have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 7/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 88, for - 1. Draft law has been rejected. Please call me! We will vote on the alternative draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” drafted by the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission (No. (79/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U157	27 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U158	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Tālis Linkaits.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U159	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Amendments to the Law on the Voters' Register are prepared for your consideration because the elections to the European Parliament are approaching. 12. The Saeima has already amended the electoral law of the European Parliament with a view to achieving two improvements in these elections. The first improvement would be the possibility to open polling stations abroad, which was not possible in the previous elections to the European Parliament, and the second would be the possibility for the voter to change his own polling station in good time. Given the need for the Central Electoral Commission to prepare, preparations need to be made to implement these amendments - to open compartments abroad and to prepare appropriate additions to the electoral register -, to recognise this draft law as an urgent and to support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U160	Thank you. The Commission therefore requests that the draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Voters' Register! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U161	On the deadline for the second reading of the proposals, the Commission proposes to set 18 December this year and a second reading of the draft law at its meeting on 20 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U162	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 18 December this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 20 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Tālis Linkaits.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U163	Colleagues! This draft law is in fact related to the previous draft law. These amendments to this law are also necessary to ensure the implementation of the elections to the European Parliament. Request to recognise the draft law as urgent and to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U164	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and District Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U165	On the deadline for the second reading, the committee asks for 18 December, the second reading - at the sitting of the Saeima on 20 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U166	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 18 December this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 20 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U167	Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment”. In fact, these amendments change two important points. The first is to cancel the medical so-called normal extended working hours that existed up to this year. It is also in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which revokes this normal extended working time. And the second important point is that because of our lack of doctors, we allow doctors to work up to 16 overtime a week. The Commission calls for the urgent nature of the draft law to be given and for it to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U168	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U169	December 17th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U170	This is the deadline for submitting proposals. And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U171	December 20th
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U172	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 17 December this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 20 December this year. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member's draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act" be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission by Mr Augulis, Ms Reizniece-Ozolas, Mr Reira, Mr Asseradena, Mr Krauzze, Ms Kola and other draft laws submitted, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U173	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, On October 8, 2015, I stood in the same courtroom and talked about the same brother. I have to talk again about the transfer of this brother to the commission. I'm so sorry. This tale cannot be passed on to the viewer. Well, one thing is that this law itself is a brother at first, while the other, I apologise, was the decision of the Constitutional Court in October 2017. Today is December 2018. Where did the government look? ( FROM a faction: “Where are you looking? ” ) Why was the ministry lying down? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Do not look at us!” ) If? ( The Room Noise) In Latvian, it's butter! ( Interface: “What do you owe? ” ) It is a complete butter! And I call for this draft law not to be passed on to the Commission, because the same draft law is already in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U174	Member Juris Puce has applied for a speech. ( Interface: “Crazing! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U175	Dear colleagues, It is, of course, unique to read the text of the draft law that has been prepared for us by several Members under the leadership of Ulda Plantis during the sitting; this text of the draft law seems to have already been read somewhere. ( Interface: “Renewal — Mother of Knowledge! ” ) In particular, a week ago the same draft law... Name, name... The Saeima has already decided unanimously to refer the budget and financial (tax) commission. And the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has not completed its first reading. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. D. Reizniece-Ozola: “Let them try again!” ) It has postponed its adoption. And now, thanks to the creative work of Ulda Plantis and colleagues, there will be two equal draft laws in the parliamentary legislative database, both of which will be passed on to the Parliamentary Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Of course, it is clear that colleagues are worried. Objectively worried about what to do - what to do with the Solidarity Tax Law, how to ensure that this law, which the Minister of Finance himself calls the Frankenstein in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima, continues to operate in Latvia. We, the Group on Development/About! , we have discussed the draft law that was submitted. We have, of course, had a great and, in my opinion, quite reasonable criticism towards the Cabinet of Ministers about why the Constitutional Court judgment of October 2017 is being enforced by the government only on 4 December of this year, when the deadline is 14 days. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Gobzem: “Juri, you have to talk about it, not “to”!” ) But we supported the first reading of the draft law. And this time, too, we will support the transfer of the draft law prepared by Ulda Plantis and colleagues. I, if it is necessary to vote, will vote in favour of a transfer to the Commission because it is obviously the cause of people's concerns, even though, in fact, colleagues, all in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) admitted that, with the progressive income tax on citizens, the parallel maintenance of another progressive tax on wages is to be called less of pointless, more to be called pointless administrative requirements for certain four thousand taxpayers. But we will be able to discuss this once again at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission when we look at two similar drafts at the same time. I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U176	Thank you. So, honourable colleagues, we have to decide to hand over the draft law to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Solidarity Tax", which states that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The agenda is an examination of the own-initiative proposals. The draft decision on the expression of support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine in relation to the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Azov Sea and the Kerch Strait. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U177	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I think that this statement is self-evident and should have been adopted last week. This is above all a question of the principles and values that we have agreed and joined. When we are in the European Union, we have agreed on certain basic principles, such as the fact that borders must not be changed by military force. This is the principle and value that underpins our ability to live and work together. This is also in the interest of all Europeans. These principles are the basis for peace and security on the European continent. Every time these principles are violated, as happened in the Kerch Strait of 25 November this year, we all no longer feel as confidently on this continent as before. The Strait of Kerch is in Europe. I am sure that the Saeima will condemn Russia's unforgivable action, which, with military force, carried out aggression against Ukraine. Russia's actions once again confirm that it does not respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and that it despises the international system in which it appears to be located. It's nothing new. The illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014 and later the construction of the Kerč Bridge are clear violations of Ukrainian sovereignty and territorial indivisibility. Russia seems to hope that the international community will simply agree and accept it as a new reality. But we will not. Latvia's position is clear. We do not recognise and will never recognise Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea. The illegal annexation of Russia by the Crimea is a deliberate violation of several international agreements and obligations, including Article 2 of the UN Charter, the Helsinki Pact, the Budapest Memorandum and the Protection, Cooperation and Partnership Agreement of 1997 between Russia and Ukraine. With this statement, we are expressing our clear support for the international system and those norms that Russia continues to ignore and violate. We must not allow Russia to rewrite history by introducing a new reality where it likes. On 25 November, Russia attacked Ukrainian ships, injuring the sailors on them. Seafarers were arrested and transferred to Moscow. They are not responsible state actions aimed at maintaining international peace and security. With this statement, we call on Russia to return to respect international law and treaties, to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and to release not only the captured members of the Ukrainian Navy, but all Ukrainian political prisoners. With this communication, we are making a clear call to the European Union, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the United Nations to react immediately to an incident in the Strait of Kerch. I invite the Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs to include the Russian authorities responsible for the incident in the non-graft list of Latvian persons, without delaying such a decision. With this statement, we are with Ukraine. With this statement, we are showing and expressing that we do not care. And, colleagues, in conclusion, I would also call after the vote... Members who have decided or are considering not to support this statement... and, if these Members are in a parliamentary group with Ukraine... I call for this decision to be taken after this vote - to withdraw from this cooperation group, because being in such a cooperation group on the part of these Members is cynicism at the highest level. I call for support for the statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U178	The name of Member Juta Stricky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U179	I call for support to be given to the Saeima's statement of support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. The world has recently witnessed the aggression of the Russian armed forces against the Ukrainian navy in the Strait of Kerch. Sometimes it is said that the Russian armed forces are attacking Ukraine for the first time. There is, in fact, no difference in how lies are masked in Ukraine's territory - in Crimea and in Donbass. It is and remains aggression. Latvia must be truly solidarity with Ukraine in its struggle for freedom and independence of its land. Communication with our allies must stand for maximum economic and military assistance wherever possible, because the Ukrainian people also pay the most expensive price - with their patriot, son and daughter - for our safety. Recalling that the sailors of the Ukrainian navy have been captured by Russia, I invite you to follow the example of Lithuania and include the direct performers and organisers of this crime in the list of persons who have been denied entry to our country, Latvia. Let us not forget, however, that Russia had achieved, before the invasion in Ukraine in 2014, the appointment of Yanukovych as President of Ukraine. And not without Russia's involvement in Yanukovych's armed forces, loyal personalities were purposefully infiltrated to Russia by the security and law enforcement authorities. And I remind you that we do not lose sight of ourselves. Let me remind you of a few more facts. For example, when during the Crimean occupation in Riga picketers held a support campaign for this international crime, the Latvian citizen Rūtenbergs took out of one picket's hand the Russian flag by breaking its stalk. ( Internouncing call.) On this action, which is nothing more than an expression of emotional resistance, General Kaltmeier said in some interviews that it should now be criminalised. We also have social democrats who travel in jeeps and who are not ashamed of entering into agreements with the party Jeginaya Rossie (Dep. I. Zariņš: “What are they? Name it!’ ) whose opposition leader Alexey Navalney is rightly called a party of scams and thieves. For no reason, our local “Jip Social Democrats” can try everything with a regime that organises murders, even using chemical weapons abroad. And more. I would remind you that at the time of Russia's invasion in Ukraine, our Minister of Agriculture Dūklav met with Dvorkovic, Deputy Prime Minister of Russia at his forehead. Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs knows nothing about such a meeting. Why should the Minister for Agriculture meet senior officials of the Aggressor State? Who authorized him? I call for vigilance, because there are certainly people among our pillars of power who will always choose the latter between the interests of the country and the interests of their wallet. That is why I also call on the public - to keep a close watch that our politicians in words do not have a bear, but in their works, the kirchensteins and in their souls, the bunny pastes. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U180	The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U181	Dear colleagues, This is an important statement, because the legislator of Latvia cannot remain indifferent to the situation in which Ukraine has reached due to Russian aggression, especially after the recent events in Kerch Strait. The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia strongly condemns aggression, looks forward to the release of Ukrainian seafarers and the normalisation of the situation, but with this statement we also send a message to our Ukrainian partners and colleagues. We have many such things, both as the Latvian state and individually. Me too. I have been working in Ukraine for a long time, both in the capital and in the areas affected by the war, and I see many events in the same way as the Ukrainians. With this announcement, we are sending out the message that Latvia's voice will sound loud and strong in international institutions, the European Union, NATO and elsewhere, when joining for the security of Ukraine and inviting others to do so. Latvia will continue to be a close partner of Ukraine. We will be very serious about strengthening Ukraine's security and democracy, because only democratic Ukraine with strong institutions will be able to defend its external borders and maintain international support on this issue. Prevention of corruption, municipal reform, strengthening of public administration and security of information space are some of the issues where Latvia and Ukraine will continue cooperation. Today we join the Estonian and Lithuanian parliaments, who have already condemned this situation and called on the international community to take action. We will continue to work together, because the security of Ukraine is also our security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U182	Thank you. Dear Members, write calligraphy. Ms Paviluts, Mr Zakaistovs, Mr Dzintars, Mr Zarins, Mr Judines and Mr Strike are asking for the session to continue without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? Do Members have objections? Yes, there are objections. We have to vote. Dear colleagues, Before we vote, I would like to inform you that Members Augulis, Krauze, Jalinski, Dombrovskis and Rinkēvičs are asking for a one-hour break after examination of paragraph 49 of the agenda. Dear colleagues, We have to decide... Colleagues, this is a matter for decision and vote. Does anyone want to talk about or against? No, no. So there is an opportunity to talk again about the procedure from the place. Nobody wants to say anything. Let me say it again. Members Paviluts, Zakaistovs, Dzintars, Zarins, Judins and Strike are asking for the session to continue without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined. Members Augulis, Krauze, Jalinska, Dombrovskis and Rinkēvičs ask for a one-hour break after examination of point 49 of the agenda. So we have to vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “We are voting for both right away!” ) First. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 54, it's against - 31, it's not. Consequently, it has been decided to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption - until all items on the agenda have been dealt with. We are continuing the debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wittenberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U183	Hello, dear colleagues! It has been demonstrated internationally that the ships of the Ukrainian navy, which were shot at the Kerch Strait on 25 November, were present in international waters during the attack. The ships were on their way from the port of Odessa to the port of Mariupol in the Sea of Azova. I would remind you that in 2003 an agreement was concluded between Ukraine and Russia on freedom of navigation in the Kerch Strait. Consequently, this agreement was violated. And we can't feel safe and pretend that it doesn't apply to us. Latvian National Armed Forces regularly record the activity of Russian military vessels near the borders of the country, they cross the economic zone of Latvia. We must continue to support Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. The Autonomous Republic of Crimea is an integral part of Ukraine. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U184	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U185	Dear President, Honourable Members! The main problem in this case seems to me to be the gross violation of the 2003 agreement between Ukraine and Russia on cooperation between the Azov Sea and the Kerch Strait. Article 1 of this Agreement provides that the Azov Sea is the internal waters of Ukraine and Russia, while Article 2 provides that it is a free zone for all merchant vessels: nothing needs to be reconciled. Ukrainian, say, military vessels do not have to harmonise anything, and Russian vessels do not have to harmonise anything. And what is happening to third-country vessels - merchant vessels, if they go to a Russian or Ukrainian port, say, European Union vessels, for example, to Mariupol... they do not need to require authorisation, they can drive. As regards, for example, military ships - if NATO warships wish to travel to Mariupol, this treaty requires the consent of the country, say, where the port to which the ship is going. So if Ukraine has invited NATO warships or a NATO military vessel, for example, to Mariupolis, then it is not necessary to coordinate with Russia. This is provided for in this Treaty. And most importantly, in this treaty: if there is any dispute or if it is necessary to clarify a part of this treaty, all disputes are settled by negotiation - in a peaceful manner. The Treaty points out, in a peaceful manner, without any detention and any warships. So the detention of these ships, the Ukrainian ships, is another... an extremely brutal and gross breach of the international treaty. On the other hand, the former German Chancellor Conrad Adenauer had once counted all the international agreements that Russia has concluded (you can find this list on the Internet, I will not read it), and 86 percent of all the contracts that Russia has concluded were broken or broken. So here shouldn't in any way surprise us or worry us in any way. There's another thing that surprises me. We also saw Latvia's position in the European Commission. These issues are also discussed in the Council of Europe between the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Member States of the European Union and the Heads of State. And this absolutely soft position is absolutely amazing. Latvia is, of course, in favour of the release of these ships, and all that is written in this draft decision is very correct, but... We also understand that... The rather peaceful attitude of the large countries, Western countries, is striking us. Of course, small countries... I think the Baltic States and the Nordic States... Maybe there should be some bigger initiative. And I will give you just one example. If Turkey of a NATO Member State prevented Russian ships sailing from the Black Sea in Bosphorus, then, of course, this problem with Ukrainian seafarers would be solved within a day and nothing like that would ever happen again. Instead, it is announced that sanctions will be increased. These sanctions last year, if we look at all the countries... trade with Russia has increased. Most trade has increased, of course, for Germany. So this soft attitude continues, and the only thing I think we can do, and also the Foreign Minister, is obviously to mobilise at least our closest allies in the European Union - the Nordic countries and the two Baltic neighbours - in some way to be more principled and perhaps to really show a tougher position, not as usual... All things end with another statement that sanctions will be increased, but, as we see, the gas pipeline will be built, then hundreds of billions of euros from the Western countries will be transferred to Russia so that it can buy military technology and continue the military provocation in the future. I call for support for the draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U186	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U187	Hello, dear colleagues! From December 3 to December 5, I was invited to a meeting with Ukrainian Rada... On 3 December, the Ambassador of Latvia to Ukraine Juris Poikāns invited us to participate in Latvia's centenary events in Kiev. Two weeks ago, the Foreign Affairs Commission adopted a statement, the text of which is practically similar to what we are discussing at the Saeima meeting today. This statement by the Foreign Affairs Commission was handed over to Ukrainian Rada Members last Tuesday. The call, as from colleagues, was made both from Ukrainian Rada Members and from the Ukrainian Embassy - we really have to stand in Latvia for a more active position against the aggressive policy of the Russian Federation in certain areas of Ukraine. Today we met with the working group of the Ukrainian Parliament and also listened to Petro Dekalčuk - honorary consul of Latvia Dnipro, one of the closest areas in the area of Donetsk... and, as you know, 10 areas of war have been declared. Indeed, the situation is rather tense, so I call on both to support this statement and to stand up for more active action and support for the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U188	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the expression of support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine in relation to the aggression of the Russian Federation in the Azov Sea and the Kerch Strait! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, against - no, abstain - 2. Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. But with regard to answering Members' questions today, I would like to inform you about the Member Zarina, Rubika, Urbanoviča, Tutina and Krišāns Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis, about the purchase of passenger trains. The written responses received are satisfactory, so the replies to Members' questions will not be given today. Additional questions have been submitted to Members. The Members Cabanov, Ribakov, Agešin, Tutin and Krišāns have submitted the question “On the standard of basic education”. The word for motivation to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U189	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Today, five Members of the Group asked the Acting Minister for Education and Science, Mr Reira, about what is happening to the standard of basic education. We are particularly interested in the issue of schools for national minorities. In our opinion, this new standard does not correspond to the ethnic distribution in Latvia and language demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U190	Thank you. The question is submitted to Jānis Reiras, the principal of the Minister of Education and Science, for a reply. Members Zarins, Krišāns, Adamsons, Clementjevs and Orlovs submitted the question ‘On the legality and legality of the State aid scheme for subsidised electricity implemented by the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics’, which is referred to the Minister of Economics for their response. Members Zarins, Krišāns, Orlovs, Tutins and Rubiks submitted a question “On Compliance of the Right to Sell Electricity under Compulsory Procurement under the Electricity Market Law with the State Aid Elements of the Law on Control of Commercial Aid”, which is submitted to the Minister of Finance for its reply. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the registration results are being collected, the name of the Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnerė.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U191	Dear colleagues, Five minutes after the parliamentary meeting, I invite you to the Yellow House - the creation of a group of Members with the German Parliament.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U192	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U193	Twenty minutes after the parliamentary meeting, the organisation of a group of Members for cooperation with the Chinese Parliament.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U194	Name of the Saeima Secretary Maria Golubeva. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U195	Not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dombrava, Marija Golubeva... I'm here! Artuss Kaimiņš, Maris Kučinskis, Romanas Naudiņš, Dana Reizniece-Ozola... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-13-PT13-509-U196	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
