ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the meeting room so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on 22 March 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and includes the draft law “Law on the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes!’ ) Members have reservations. The opposition shall lie with Member Artus Neminiņš. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law “Law of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Panel asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting to include the Member Ivars Zariņa, Andra Morozova, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Mirska, Vladimira Nikonova, Igora Zuvėva and Vital Orlova's request to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden regarding the verification of subsidised electricity power plants implemented by the Ministry of Economics, their objectivity and their relevance to the public interest. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the dismissal of Andrejs Grūbe from the position of a judge of Kurzeme district court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On approval of Ieva Dambes as a district (city) court judge” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Smiltēns, Kleinberga, Melgailis, Platopers, Šymfas, Krūmiņš, Ruks and Viļums are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U2	Good morning, Chairman of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, For several weeks... for two weeks in a row, television reports about a very large, “fine” procurement by the state joint stock company “State Roads of Latvia”. That's the situation. Planned price, contract price, - four million. An applicant applies for 3.5 million, another one exceeding eight million. The one who applied for 3.5 is rejected, and the one who wons the eight. Who's following? Follows a sharp, determined, accurate reaction by the Minister of Transport? ‘ That kind of piggy cannot be tolerated! For this money - 4.5 million - we can finance the reconstruction of 50 kilometres of gravel roads or the renewal of 15 kilometres of asphalt roads. Such a case cannot be allowed!” Colleagues, was it? It wasn't! That's what we just dreamed about. Well, I think it's been a high-year practice, like it used to be, when there was a lot of money that could afford not to respond to such things. The Association of the Regions of Latvia believes that it would be better if we distributed this money - 4.5 million - to even foster families, professional foster families, to every breed that cares for a child who has no parents. In order for him to grow up in a family environment, we can allocate EUR 750 per month. You rejected the amendments to the law on widow’s pensions proposed by the Association of the Regions of Latvia. ( Intercretion: Ai, ai, ai!) ) By adding a little more, a couple million more, we could provide widows’ pensions for such money for a whole year! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “How can you not stand fast!” ) Colleagues! For the five million that we believe have been wasted, 50 000 pensioners could provide €100 a year as a dental allowance. Such a purchase was worth it! And all this is worse, in the context of one story, where we see that the Minister intends to carry out a study to justify the need for eight million instead of 3.5. It's worse... I think many people in Latvia have a heartwarming when... We saw on television Lyme, who has just arrived from Estonia and is fighting for an opportunity to breathe and live. The State does not pay for lung transplantation. Then we better use the money for such things! Therefore, colleagues, the law on public procurement needs to be changed. A tender with a planned price of four million must not be allowed to win for eight million and there must be no response. We offer to fix a ceiling. If the price planned was the amount X, the successful tenderer may not receive more than 50 per cent above the planned price. Maybe there's something wrong with it, but it's not normal if it's double or triple... Because it is also a question of security in Latvia; it is a question of public confidence in the power of your country; it is a question of the shadow economy, because people pay taxes if they know how to use every cent they pay. The Association of Latvian Regions invites to include this draft law on the Saeima agenda and to support its transfer to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U3	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U4	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! I call for these amendments to the Public Procurement Act not to be supported for one reason. The party you name, which you are now representing, has done very bad homework... And this bill... Well, in principle, it's translate into Kazisis, there's no specificity there, and so it's a brother you're now giving to the Saeima to confirm. I call for this not to be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U5	Thank you. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 30, against - 3, refrains - 48. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. We begin to examine the agenda of the amended sitting. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Personal Data Processing” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U6	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! Given that the roll of order of the Saeima gives the opportunity to speak either 'for' or 'no' and does not give the opportunity to say that I am 'for' in principle, but that I am 'no' in a certain case, I will speak 'no'. In fact, the personal data processing law before you has been created as an explanatory law in the context of the General Data Protection Regulation, which we will now have. Of course, we cannot have any influence here on the General Data Protection Regulation. We are a Member State of the European Union, but at the same time, in this law, we are distorting one essential thing; this makes this apex. The purpose of the Personal Data Processing Law is to try to protect our ever decreasing privacy. Technology uses our data to the right, to the left. The same Facebook scandal... Hundreds of thousands, millions of people are involved in the processing of their data. In China, for example, social credit will be valid from 2020... a system of reputation that will control everyone in China. What is it? This is Article 28, and I will read it, but I will explain at the beginning that it is a data protection officer. Last night, at the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, the honourable Vice-President of the ZZS Group - congratulations, Kārlis, with nomination, to say so! - asked: “Who are these data protection experts at all?” Well, I'll tell you this: the Personal Data Protection Act has been in force for 18 years, and these professionals have been working for more than 15 years. In essence, Article 28 reads as follows (I will allow you to read): “The duties of the Data Protection Officer shall be exercised by a person... who is included in the list of Data Protection Officers in accordance with the procedure laid down by this Law....” And okay! That's right! And then there's a comma. And what's behind the comma... The government... Obviously thanks to the strong lobby of local governments or some other lobby... In principle, it is stated: whether the data protection officer is appointed by the controller or the processor. By analogy, I will give an example of drivers. Let's say, the driver, the driver, is a natural person who drives the vehicle in accordance with the procedure laid down by regulatory enactments and who has the right to drive in the appropriate category. And now we can modify and say, whether any person sitting on the wheel of a vehicle... whether or not that person is entitled... It has been chosen by passengers in the vehicle... I think it is absurd, and I ask the Legal Commission to take this into account, because the amount of fine that can be imposed on this regulation is EUR 20 million. EUR 20 million! And now imagine in the municipality... Well, what do we mean? Annie, what's the matter with us? No, Peter, who works for us as a lawyer... And then... You can't even blame that Annen or Peter. In fact, we - the legislators - will ultimately be guilty. And I call for such things to be eliminated at the very root. Because the meaning of the regulation and, let's say, its original idea... The objective is to create legal conditions for the establishment of a system for the protection of personal data of natural persons, therefore, of all our data. More! The law provides for regulation of the activities of the data protection officer for this purpose. Please do not distort at least the law, because we cannot, unfortunately or fortunately, distort the regulation. It is accepted by the European Union, but still we are trying to ruin something in this matter. So, colleagues, I ask the Legal Commission to draw attention to the last 10 words of Article 28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U7	Thank you. The Member has spoken against the referral of the draft law to the Commission. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law on Personal Data Processing” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Apartments and Social Housing” presented by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Neighbours, do you want to talk about 'or 'no'? So "no" applied to speak to Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U8	I was very surprised to see that something like this is on the agenda today. Some of our colleagues in this house have been sitting for about so long... well, for as long as there is no law of lobbying in Latvia. And the Law of Lobbying would be a very important law to respect the principles of democracy. The adoption of this law – the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Law – would mean that we are going to fully authoritarian regime. That means that... Well, if you can say that, a handful of companies... As far as I understand, there, in the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, there are 2300 small, large and micro-enterprises. But in our country as a whole, there are more than 90,000 companies. These people, who will be delegated as the people of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, namely, representatives, will be closer, so to say, to the government house. This law is absolutely for them... They have done their job perfectly - they have been defiled. LTRK is malachi! They have been hijacked now for these elections, that they will even have the law... with the Government... that a certain majority will already support. I hope not. But you are no longer lobbyists. You have to make a decision. And this decision is not a good decision for the Latvian state. We need the law of the lobby, not the law of the LTRK. Then we can make it as well... Let's assume we can make a white and black horse law or, let's adopt a Latvian Pensioners Federation law. You need a law there that is right for you... If you don't choose next time, Mr. Silins! Who will then represent your interests in the government's house without law? Or, let's say, with all my heart... and a little salt of the law for Latvia as well... Yeah, who's going to represent you? I am trying to point out to you that this is unfair competition with other companies that pay taxes to the State. If this camera... Article 5 states: ‘The camera is a politically neutral organisation whose activities are not linked to the achievement of political objectives.’ Good morning! You create a special law to support it... for this Article, Article 5, does not exist in this law... Well, LCRC lobbyists have done a good job... in the law there is still a reference to 1934 - that in 1934, in the time of Ulmanis, it was... But there were no electric cars in Ulmann's time. It was! Maybe we also ban electric cars because it was in Ulmann's time?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You don't need any completely wrong reference! Time to go ahead! Today, our task is not to support this law, as it would distort competition. I understand there will be elections, and you will have... Maybe you've got something agreed... Maybe it's a deal, isn't it? Then please press that button and don't go further! Yeah... Perhaps Mr. Maudiņš can tell us why it is 2300 companies that have direct access to the government, and the government, the Cabinet of Ministers, must consult directly with the LTRK? Why is that? And the rest stay behind the side. That's not right! I am absolutely convinced that the most correct solution is the Law of Lobbyes, which I think here is as if there is too little courage to develop. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “Inscriptions!” ) See, this is the thing we have to do here! We have to do, Mrs. Chigan, you know that! Not to write, but... Inscription! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Chigan intersacres.) You understand, Mrs. Chigan. Inscription!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U9	Do not debate with the grass, Mr. Neighbours!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U10	Please reject this bill. Our country needs the law of lobbying, not this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U11	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Romanas Nadiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U12	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Request to support this draft law, however. Mr. Neighbours referred here to 1934. Yes, it is true: such a law was adopted in 1934. And not only in Latvia, but also in other countries, which are currently members of the European Union. At present, such a law exists in Lithuania, Estonia, Germany, France, Finland and Sweden. Mr. Neighbours mentioned electric vehicles. By the way, Mr. Kaimiņa, the first electric vehicle was created already in 1912, Ford created it. So they already existed. Colleagues! More than 2000 members are united in the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Their companies have a total turnover of over EUR 17 billion. I think the time has come for us, the Commission, to start work. Give it to the draft law commission so that we can prepare it for the first reading! Of course, we can further clarify it if necessary and create supplements by learning the best practice... learning from best practice in other countries by working with relevant laws. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “In other countries it is normal... “ We will prepare it and move it forward as soon as it is ready. Thank you. Request to support, colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Law of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on the granting of leave. On 22 March this year, Rihard Cole was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Rihards Kola to grant him unpaid leave on 22 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this request and has granted leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Ivars Freezers from 20 March to 22 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ivars Freeer requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 20 to 22 March of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item is the reports by the Prime Minister, Ministers and other officials. Annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia for 2017. Annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia for 2017. Name to the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia Juris Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U14	Good morning! Good morning, Chairman of your Excellency Saeima! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, especially in the 21st century, both human rights and understanding and attitudes have changed dynamically. Human rights guaranteed by the Constitution and other legislation are the basis for a happy human and sustainable state. It is essential to understand that all human rights principles are interrelated and complementary. It shows that human rights are universal and fundamental. Moreover, they can be considered as one of the most dynamic rights. I often mention in my speeches or in reference to an international human rights document the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, where the first article talks about human dignity. I am often asked about the definition of human rights, and I say that it is a set of rights that guarantees the right to happiness. Human rights begin at birth and end at death, including. Who can ask: why is it right to happiness? Of course, everyone has their own criteria and understanding of happiness. In my opinion, these are the right to education, the right to accessible and high-quality health care, the right to social security, property and work, as well as many others. Most importantly, people are aware of their rights and, at the same time, their responsibilities, because only a society with a high level of legal awareness can be a perspective and sustainable society. ( Interface: “Of course! ”) ) It was slightly administered. And now my report to Parliament on what we've been in the office last year, so to speak, worked, done. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Klementjevs: “We are ready!” ) I will start with small statistics. In 2017 a total of 1738 submissions were received and discussed in the Bureau, 2194 responses were prepared. 45 inspection cases were brought on the basis of the applications. The Office of the Ombudsman, including the Ombudsman, shall have 46 posts. Five men and 39 women work. Well, the question of how we can ensure equality, gender equality, in the office... Well, then we'll have to set up some quotas... Keep going on with the statistics. In 2017, the planned funding of the state budget was one million 375 thousand euros, and actual implementation was one million 344,7 thousand euros. We have submitted four applications to the Constitutional Court. In particular, on the limit values for mototra noise in the context of environmental pollution, which resulted in our victory; on the implementation of the principle of equality in the determination of the remuneration of medical professionals; two applications related to real estate tax in Riga - on the calculation of the tax in the dwellings in undistributed homes and the tax rate in cases where another citizen of the European Union or of the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation is declared in the property. We have given 21 opinions to the Constitutional Court. Let me just mention a few of the most important things. So, namely, on the right to judicial review and the right to a reasoned court ruling; on the registration of religious organisations; on the compliance of the Solidarity Tax Act with the principle of legal equality; on the prohibition to work as a teacher for persons convicted of a deliberate criminal offence. Now I will keep you more informed about what is, in substance, about the specific topics that we have been working on, but I will mention only what we think is most relevant from the point of view of the system, because the report as a whole contains 353 pages, and I think it would not be good or effective if I read the whole report to you. Let me therefore mention that I will only touch on the essential elements. No, well, if Parliament wants, I can read everything, of course. ( Milestones.) The rights of the child have, of course, always been a strategic priority in the office, and I must mention the violence against children in state and municipal institutions. Last year, as well as previous years, has been very worrying in this respect. In 2017, the case of violations of children's rights in the Jelgava Children's Social Care Centre received a wide range of resonances, as a result of which criminal proceedings for failure of officials were initiated. In turn, last year, by attracting a lawyer, it was moved or moved into criminal proceedings for similar violations in the Sala region’s children’s house “Līkumi”. The name has now been changed. I also initiated a case of screening of violence against children and other violations of children's rights in the psychological hospital “Ainaži”. In this case, too, criminal proceedings have been initiated; moreover, it will not be worth adding that doctors' organizations and officials in charge have admitted that no treatment as such has taken place at this one type of psychological institution in Latvia. The extremely important and complex topic is the protection of the rights of children of Latvian citizens abroad. This is due to the problem that parents often do not understand the principles of law or the nature of the law that responsible authorities abroad apply to the protection of children's rights. We have very many cases where children are taken out of the family and the country - I am talking about Latvia here - but the relevant services have been powerless and have not been able to help our compatriots, our citizens to do everything to prevent children from being taken out of the family or - even more so - being forced into adoption somewhere in completely foreign cultures, in foreign families. The good news is that last year an inter-institutional agreement was concluded - an agreement between the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Welfare, the State Children's Rights Protection Inspectorate and the Latvian Barents' Workers' Association to deal with all these difficult situations effectively, qualitatively, in a timely manner and in coordination with each other would be quite successful from the point of view of good governance, so that everyone would do what should be done as best as possible. In particular, the Ministry of Justice responds as a point of contact when it is necessary to respond, the orphan's court becomes involved when it is already necessary to engage in or are in court proceedings, or otherwise. Of course, the foreign service, the diplomatic service ensures the protection of our citizens, our citizens, within the limits of their competences. The next topic, which may not seem so important, is important for our parents, families with children - equal treatment in the calculation of catering fees at pre-school institutions. In short, there are many different methodologies. There is no specific methodology that would be applicable in all cases where catering charges are calculated. We proposed that a common methodology should be developed for calculating the costs of catering and that a clear, precise definition of the costs to be borne by the municipal budget and what should be borne by the parents of the children. Like with teaching aids. Equal treatment in the determination of the amount of grants. This was about education institutions in two ministries, where the way grants were calculated differed significantly. At the proposal of the Ministry of Culture, this problem was effectively resolved at the extraordinary meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 8 September 2017. The impact of early school-leaving on the development of the child. The laws and regulations currently in force do not provide for a uniform starting time for educational institutions. Analysing the study on adolescent sleep, I concluded that the early onset of educational institutions significantly increases health risks, therefore I invited the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education and Science to assess the possibilities to determine the previous time allowed for primary and secondary school pupils. And this must be seen, of course, also in the context of the right to leisure and the right to education in the interests. This is also about the volume of homework that we had in the past many different discussions. It must be stated that no regulatory act requires that domestic work is an activity to be carried out. Homework - it is rather a methodological tool for achieving the relevant learning outcomes. But it is important that it is balanced, balanced, that the child stays time for recreation, education of interests, and also has free time. The problem of enforcement of the right of access. This is a big problem in Latvia. In particular, we have received the most applications in the area of children's rights directly in relation to this problem, and practice shows that too often children lose the opportunity to keep in touch with the parent with whom they do not live, for example because of long-distance or - most often - hostile relations between parents. And it's often like we're facing... And especially, let's say, in the case of orphanage... parents use a child for mutual self-esteem and try to prevent contact in a less favourable way towards the child. In fact, he suffers by trying to have a relationship between his parents, which can also result in emotional violence against a child. The right of children to grow up in a family or family environment. This is about the attention of the responsible authorities and the public in relation to the problem that we already pointed out in 2016. In particular, it is about placing children under the age of three or not being placed in institutions. There are many different studies that quite clearly state: placing children in institutions under three years of age is damaging and irreversibly affecting the future development of children. Last year we continued to follow this situation, and there is a good news, a good news, that the number of children under three in institutions has decreased by half. And the decisions of the orphan courts have also improved considerably in this regard, which means that we have been heard and the responsible officials have actually taken into account these recommendations and the best interests of the children. Social behavioural adjustment programmes for children. It is a major problem, a major systemic problem in Latvia. Here we have to talk about municipalities, because the municipalities develop behavioural social correction programs for every child who has committed a violation of the law or whose behaviour may lead to unlawful actions. The regulation gives municipalities discretion to delegate this responsibility to each institution as well as to develop the content of the discretion. The practice shows that in 2017, 101 out of 119 Latvian municipalities had developed such programs... up to ten children, although studies show that children with behavioural disorders are in each class. This means that this function is not provided at all. It could even be said that as a result of municipal inaction, there has been no social work with the family, no assistance for parents in raising the child, no work with the child when he first suffered from behavioural disorders; the school has not reported to the social service. In fact, there has been an increase in a generation of teenagers that no one needs, because no one - neither parents, children's children, nor school - can see an exit anymore and wants to isolate them. Child’s antisocial behavior is a consequence of a violation of his right to full development in earlier childhood. Therefore, the initiative of the Ministry of Justice to develop draft Law on Children's Antisocial Conduct should be welcomed. The draft law provides for greater specificity in the organisation of preventive work and - which is particularly important - also state funding for the payment of certain services. Civil and political law Right to a fair trial. The right to a fair trial is an area of human rights, where most applications are consistently received. In total, in 2017 we received 347 applications from private individuals, which is the largest number in the last three years. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Thank you. Persons have also expressed complaints about access to the court, access to and quality of legal aid, representation in certain categories of cases, right to a reasoned court ruling, time limits for hearing cases in the court, for example, criminal proceedings in Riga city Vidzeme suburb court were transferred in 2012, but in spring of 2017 the case was not concluded in essence. And it's not just one such case. Here we are talking about the system, the systemic disadvantage. 56 applications were received for the execution of judgments and actions of declared bailiffs in 2017. We carried out an analysis of the actions of judicious bailiffs. In fact, it is about the fact that they have often brought recovery to the debtor's money without retaining the statutory funds - even by referring to recovery from sums that cannot be recovered, especially public social and social assistance benefits. The bailiffs promised to change their practice - with the first notification of the obligation to execute the judgment, the debtor will at the same time be informed of his obligations in forced execution proceedings. Right to liberty and security. In 2017, 34 applications of persons have been received, where the specified circumstances are to be considered within the framework of the right to freedom and security - application of security measures and detention of a person. A large part of them have been the rule of law for the periodic control of detention. I mean, what does that mean? This means that the first instance, for example, the court of first instance, by deferring proceedings for more than two months, has not carried out an assessment of the need for continued detention. This is a serious violation of human rights. Rights of people with mental disabilities. Before I read what has been prepared for me in this regard, I want to show that we have two methodical materials: one for placing in a psychiatric hospital against the will of a person and the other for placing in a psychiatric hospital if a medical remedy is appropriate. High demand for material, both for medical staff and for patients themselves. Here I will pass, so to say, maybe in this way... Already in 2016, I note that only in recent years a person with mental disorders or more active actions of their relatives can be observed, looking for ways and ways to protect the rights and interests of a person. Particular attention was paid to the application of restrictive medicinal products to patients with limited freedom in a treatment facility. There were visits to psychiatric hospitals where adult patients were placed. Thus, it was possible to obtain objective information on whether the improvement of the regulatory framework has contributed to the respect of human rights of persons with mental disabilities in practice. It will not be too bad to recall that the laws of previous years have been amended accordingly, and the law on restrictions on the private life of a person is clearly defined... and government regulations laying down these procedures have also been adopted. In practice, however, we see that nothing has changed significantly, although there is a desire on the part of the employees of medical institutions or medical institutions to provide the regulations laid down by law and to act legally accordingly. As a result, medical personnel are likely to review their current practices and to change and correct their shortcomings. It is also extremely important to mention such a clause, if it is allowed to express itself, or a metaphor, that death can lead to life. Sounds very, very funny, but this is about the removal of dead human tissues and organs for medical use. So, organ transplantation. In 2017, I continued to study the topic of the use of the dead human body, tissues and organs in medicine, paying particular attention to public awareness and regulatory framework. This issue is particularly important in society, given that the Republic of Latvia intends to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human organs, as well as because the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Protection of the Dead Person’s Body and Use of Human Tissues and Organs in Medicine” is being directed at the Saeima. I conducted a survey on public awareness, as well as I prepared a study on compliance of the legal regulation of the Republic of Latvia on the removal of dead human tissues and organs for use in medicine with human rights standards and, by collecting results, I concluded that the public was not informed: about the procedures in the country in situations where a person has neither expressed a permit nor a ban on the use of his body, tissues and organs after death; about where it is possible to register his consent or refusal to use his body, tissues or organs after death; as well as respondents to the survey are not informed about the will of their loved ones during their lifetime. The Ministry of Health must immediately take public information measures about the system of presumed consent in the country and the right of a person to donate his tissues or organs to medicine. Right to freedom of expression. I am of the opinion that the media legal framework needs to be improved, starting with the need to strengthen the definition of journalist status that is consistent with today's circumstances. This status is not acquired only by registration in a professional association, it is not dependent on the person's popularity or formal eligibility criteria, but rather on the journalist's role – to collect and publish information in the public interest. The existence of a single definition of journalist would also contribute to the understanding of the functions, privileges and important role of the so-called watchdog in a democratic society by public administrations and law enforcement authorities. Ensuring the rights of prisoners. There is no denying that the infrastructure of Latvian prisons is outdated. Many of these institutions, buildings, buildings are still from, so to say, the times of twilight. And in prisons, many of the challenges are directly related to ensuring adequate detention conditions for prisoners, including persons with disabilities, because imprisonment is no longer a place to avenge. Incarceration is a place where one of the most severe penalties and resocialisations can be made, so that a person who is, let's say, a person who has slipped into the letter of the law or the spirit of the law can return to society as a full member of society and never again wants to commit any criminal offence. I believe that many basic cases could be resolved by building a new prison. We hoped that a new prison would be built, but this process, this project, has stopped for a long time. Trafficking in human beings. In 2017, the study “The role of social services, orphan courts and branches of the State Employment Agency of Latvia in the process of identifying victims of human trafficking” was completed. It has been found that a large number of institutions see their role only as informants that report to the police to investigate a criminal offence. In this way, the aspect of social assistance is forgotten, which, within the remit of the authorities concerned, would have the most immediate role to play. This fact along with the information provided about the institution's patterns of action shows that not all institutions in Latvia understand the system of granting social rehabilitation services to victims of human trafficking. Right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. In recent years, questions have returned to the agenda about respect for the right to religious freedom in the country. This year, both the debate on headge limitations and the issue of registration rules for religious organisations have continued. In this regard, I have given an opinion in the Constitutional Court case, where a court judgment is expected shortly. The State is obliged to be neutral and objective in the exercise of its regulatory functions in religious matters and the State may not impose disproportionate restrictions on the registration of religious organisations (churches). It is a short subject, a short extract from our point of view for the Constitutional Court. The rights of foreign nationals. In line with the international commitments made by Latvia, 2017 has come with new challenges, which allows strengthening the existing national forced return monitoring system in accordance with the latest European standards applicable when implementing the return of third-country nationals. In 2017, we have contributed to the effective establishment of a forced return monitoring system at European level by participating in the development of common standards within the FReM II project. And we are particularly proud that since 7 January 2017, one of the staff of the Ombudsman's Office has been nominated and approved by Frontex for the European Forced Return Professionals Reserve, so that the Ombudsman's Office staff carry out not only the national forced expulsion operation, but also the monitoring of Frontex's coordinated expulsion operations in accordance with the European relevant human rights standards. Finally. Social, economic and cultural rights. Right to social security. During the reporting period, the theme of reducing poverty and social exclusion was still topical. I have already indicated in advance that the social security system established in Latvia and the minimum levels of social support are below the minimum necessary to ensure a dignified life. The amounts of benefits are not based on calculation, and most of them have not been revised for several years, for example, the state social security benefit has remained at the level of 2005 and the poverty threshold at the level of 2011. No significant improvement has been introduced during the reporting period, and around one third of Latvia's population is still at risk of poverty. The envisaged support measures are not able to cover the increasing costs of basic needs of the population. Changes in guaranteed minimum income level or GMI from 49.80 to 53 euros per person per month, starting in 2018, or an increase of 3.20 euros is insufficient and does not correspond to the socio-economic situation, as well as to the international standard of human rights. Such a GMI level does not provide decent living conditions and is not considered sufficient to meet even the basic needs of a person. It should be stressed that the beneficiaries of this benefit are not only ponds, as the Prime Minister mentioned one morning in a television programme, but also referring to the fact that we have criticised this GMI. It is not just about ponds, but it is also about people with disabilities, seniors and families with children. The concept developed by the Ministry of Welfare “On setting the minimum income level” was one of the guests’ expectations that the situation in the field of social protection would improve. However, it is still not in place in 2017, its implementation has been postponed from year to year and has now been fully suspended. It has stuck somewhere in the Cabinet. Here is something that we cannot forget: Latvia has defined itself as a socially responsible country. Also, the Constitutional Court has recognised that, when exercising the right to social security established by the Constitution, the State has an obligation to establish the regulatory framework of this law, as well as to establish an effective mechanism of implementation of legal norms. The State is obliged not only to declare the rights, but also to implement them and monitor their application. Already in 2012, I drew the attention of several international institutions to the consistently high proportion of the population at risk of poverty in Latvia. In response to the report, the European Economic and Social Committee referred to the latest opinions, which refer to the provisions contained in the Lisbon Treaty, which significantly change the European social dimension. In defining and implementing its policies and activities, the European Union shall take into account the requirements relating to ensuring an adequate level of social protection and combating social exclusion. The purpose and main objective of Member States' efforts is to constantly improve the living and working conditions of their peoples. The decision-making bodies should not restrict the application of the horizontal social clause in terms of scope or choice of methods; on the contrary, it should be applied in the broadest sense in all European Union policies. The horizontal social clause should be reflected in legal instruments that ensure that the objectives of the new treaties are achieved, both within the European Union and in the Member States. In order to highlight the problem of poverty, last September we organised a meeting of the Platform on Social and Economic Rights in Riga with the Council of the European Union, the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, Equinet, the European Network of Legal Equality Protection Institutions and the European Network of National Human Rights Institutions, which discussed reducing poverty in Latvia and Europe. Among other things, the discussions highlighted that there is a very high income inequality in Latvia among the population, which restricts economic growth of the country. Only Bulgaria, compared to other European Union countries, has even greater income inequality than Latvia. The experts of the European Commission also point out this in a document just published - the report on Latvia. It is particularly important to emphasise: minimal progress has been made over time in the area of social policy. Despite recent improvements, high levels of poverty and income inequality remain a serious challenge. In 2017, income of the richest 20 percent of the population was 6.3 times higher than income of the poorest 20 percent. This remains one of the highest figures in the European Union. Although the proportion of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion is steadily decreasing, it remains above the European Union average. Looking ahead, tax reform is expected to have only a limited impact on reducing inequalities and poverty. Low adequacy of benefits leads to high poverty and inequality. Latvia spends a small percentage of GDP on social protection compared to other Member States of the European Union. Despite recent improvements, social transfers, including the minimum income scheme, are among the most ineffective in reducing poverty in the European Union. It is critical that public confidence in the Latvian social insurance system is low. One of the main reasons for this is the large number of persons contributing reduced or no contributions at all. This creates potential poverty for these people in the future. Rights of persons with disabilities. There is also prepared material on an adapted working environment for disabled workers. ( See the brochure.) Of course, it has been developed together with non-governmental organisations, experts, and that is also, to say, a much-demanded material. That too, if I may, I will hand over it. ( The brochure is presented to the chair.) Employment of people with disabilities was a key research issue during the reporting period. As part of this research, information material has been developed in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, which I have just shown to you. It contains information on a culture of contact with workers with different types of disabilities in order to promote positive communication between disabled and disabled workers. The information material also provides practical information on how to easily and conveniently adapt different working environment and work processes for employees with different types of disabilities. At the end of the year we organised a conference on Access to the labour market for persons with disabilities. After hearing the responsible public authorities, I came to the conclusion that there are many new trends which have so far been poorly developed in social policy, such as motivation programmes, mentoring, a balanced quota system, prevention measures to prevent people from falling out of the labour market. And finally, the idea of showing public administration as a model for the employment of people with disabilities. However, I call on the State Employment Agency, together with the Ministry of Welfare, to work to raise awareness among people and employers about the opportunities offered by the State, as well as to raise awareness among the general public about the success of the system; otherwise, the opinion on the effectiveness of the system is more likely to arise from unsuccessful examples and may sometimes be unrepentantly wrong. It is important to be aware that everyone is individual and not to happen in this area without an individual approach. In order to achieve the goal, managers of responsible institutions were invited to think much more about how to educate their employees, how to look at each person as a client – with an individual approach and a real desire to help him find a job and successfully enter the labour market. For, as we well know, Latvia also has a binding principle: everyone has the right to work, everyone has the right to live in society. I was surprised by the statement by Aigars Rostovski, the president of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who has just, recently, made in the context of the inclusion of people with disabilities in Riga Business Forum: “Such people are a burden for entrepreneurs, so I have to think about how to facilitate the procedure for their dismissal.” Rostovskis believes that environmental accessibility standards should not be included in building regulations, as this is too expensive. It hurts! Really sadly, in the Member State of the European Union in the 21st century, to hear such statements, as I understand, from the social partner of the government and Parliament! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Village: ‘Official!’ ) I agree that certain provisions of the Labour Law could be corrected, however, as regards access to the environment in 2010, the World Bank study notes that the cost of ensuring access to the environment from the total construction costs is one percent (or even less). So this is more about attitude, will and understanding. And once again, I would like to stress that it is not just people with reduced mobility. This is about persons with visual and hearing impairment and impairment. It is also about the fact that mothers and seniors in the field of access to the environment are at risk and their rights are limited. Right to health. literally 10 minutes. In 2017, a reform of the health care system was launched, in which it is planned to increase funding for healthcare by four per cent of GDP over the next three years. Four percent! However, until the planned funding level has been reached in reality, there is no reason to believe that the healthcare system available in Latvia will improve significantly. Since one of the priorities of the government and parliament in 2017 was the reform of the health care system and the introduction of compulsory health insurance, in late 2017 the Saeima adopted the Health Care Financing Act. First of all, it should be noted that the government had passed on to the Saeima an absolutely poor quality bill. You can say, brothers. In general, this led to more questions than answered, so the Ministry of Health is still waiting for an extensive explanation work, especially for those citizens who will have to join the system themselves. Similarly, it is still not clear what benefits society as a whole will have, namely how access to healthcare will be directly improved, what the guaranteed time of access to the service will be, whether the new model will help to retain and reward doctors and so on in the sector. Overall, I am critical of the fact that in 2020 only four per cent of GDP is planned to be devoted to health care of the population of Latvia. Health funding in OECD countries ranges from 5.1 to 16.4 per cent of GDP. In such a situation, it is not clear how Latvian politicians are planning to achieve significant improvements in the sector, while maintaining the funding they need is still critically low. Moreover, I have pointed out that it is socially irresponsible that the government has excluded from the health care system those people of Latvia who operate in tax regimes recognised by the state. The question therefore remains whether the citizens who will have to join the health insurance system themselves will be able to make this payment, or whether this will increase the amount of emergency medical care and disability expenses in this segment. The statutory health insurance rate of three percent (or 153 euro 80 cents) and five percent (or 258 euro) of the minimum wage in 2019 and 2020 for those citizens who will join the system themselves is absolutely unjustified and disproportionate. In fact, the law provides for these residents to pay monthly health contributions from an amount corresponding to income of 1290 euros (in 2019) and 2150 euros (in 2020) per month. Income in excess of EUR 1000 per month is received by around 25 percent of workers, while income in excess of EUR 2000 per month is received by just over five percent of workers. There is no clear justification why the citizens who join the system themselves will have to make a payment from such a large amount. In my opinion, the principle of legal equality, as enshrined in Article 91 of the Satversme, is violated in relation to these citizens, which could potentially also lead to the risk of constitutional proceedings. At the same time, the question remains whether the citizens who will have to join the health insurance system themselves will be able to make this payment, or whether it will increase the pressure on local government and national social budgets in this segment. Implementation of the principle of equality in the determination of the remuneration of medical professionals. I had previously pointed out an unjustified difference in treatment by compensating medical staff for overtime work. This is about the normal extended working time for medical staff. I believe that any work exceeding the normal time of nature, that is to say, 40 hours per week, is regarded as overtime and is eligible for compensation by way of a premium of 100 per cent of the wage fixed or by way of a paid rest period. Both the Saeima and the Government acknowledged the need to change the legal framework by phasing out extended normal working time for medical persons, but no specific solution was proposed. Well, there's a transitional period, but the principle is maintained. The solution arose only after the application was submitted to the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, the solution provides for a disproportionately long transitional period - up to 2020. Therefore, the final name in this matter will be stated by the Constitutional Court. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate call.) Sometime in mid-April the oral procedure will begin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate call.) Yeah. On real estate tax in Riga. During the reporting period several citizens of the capital city drew attention to discriminatory and non-compliant legal norms of the Riga City Council in the binding regulations on real estate tax in Riga. In general, many different complaints were received about these local government regulations. In particular, it should be noted that the municipality has created a violation of the rights of citizens in several different aspects of the law, which led to the initiation of constitutional proceedings in two cases: discrimination against citizens of the European Union and the European Economic Area, as well as unjustified differences in treatment and violation of the principle of legal equality when calculating real estate tax in flats in undistributed buildings. Right to live in a favorable environment. On getting legal norms right after the Zolitūde tragedy. We had one aspect to deal with, namely the training and certification of security staff. I gave an opinion on the training of security staff and on the problems with the efficiency of certification, I recommend amending a number of regulatory acts. Last year, amendments were made. In this respect, I would like to stress that it took four years to solve one of the problems highlighted by the Zolitūde tragedy. This raises questions about the country's desire to address issues of public interest rapidly and effectively. The noise limit values or, in other words, the right of everyone to live in a favorable environment. Last year, following my application, the Constitutional Court recognised the unlawful regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on mototra noise. Regrettably, this case highlighted the government's unwillingness to deal constructively with issues of public health and a favourable environment in the form of dialogue. In order to achieve a fair and non-degrading solution to human dignity, we still need to make use of the ultimate means of justice. In my opinion, this case is only a visible part of the iceberg, which signals to the government that there would be time to change its attitude, to listen more to people's stories and experts' recommendations, so that there should be no court judgment in any problem situation. And so there was a judgment of the court, a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which admitted that the government was not right. Promoting the principle of good governance. During the reporting period, I conducted a survey of the population in order to ascertain the public opinion as to whether the public administration complies with the principle of good governance. The Ombudsman’s annual conference presented the results of the survey, which led to a number of conclusions. First. Looking at the overall trend, it can be concluded that around 30 per cent of respondents estimated that good governance is being respected; around half indicated that good governance is being partly ensured and that there is still a need to improve; while 20 per cent considered that good governance is not being respected. Secondly. In the opinion of the population, the lack of openness and legal and objective action in institutions is most critical; this indicates a minimum involvement of the population in decision-making. Moreover, in the opinion of the public, public administration is not transparent and has excessive bureaucracy. At the same time, the least negative responses were received for polite and open access. This suggests that public administration has learned to be kind and open to communication with citizens. Based on the results of the survey, a follow-up strategy is being developed, assessing the work of certain institutions already, for example, the report already contains separate sections dedicated to promoting good governance in tax and tax administration. Communication with the public. In total, in 2017 we organised 37 events: discussions, educational seminars, travel consultations, etc. By promoting the availability of the Ombudsman in the counties, as well as by continuing to inform the public about human rights and good governance, in 2017, the Ombudsman's Office employees organized six trips outside Riga - to Ventspils, Liepaja, Valmiera, Madona, Bauska and Balva - and provided consultations in regional libraries to citizens, including young parents. We have issued a short law course for young parents, which explains their rights in a very simple, understandable way, both before maternity leave and when they return to work. ( See the brochure.) High demand is also made for both printed and PDF material on the Internet. I can separate each... Yes, please! ( The brochure is presented to the chair.) During the reporting year, there were 6484 publications in the media on the work of the Ombudsman. Ready 79 press releases. The subjects of increased public and media interest in 2017, as well as those most frequently spoken to the public by the Ombudsman or the Office representatives were: children of the system - non-family care; health care financing; social inequality and poverty; medical wages; termination of the status of non-citizen, interpretation of the concept of non-citizen; national preventive mechanism. Finally, on the national preventive mechanism. In 2017, I applied to both international and national institutions, although it will not be unnecessary to remind me that during the government of Valdis Dombrovskis a few years ago we applied for ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Torture, which introduced a national preventive mechanism in the country, but was rejected or neglected. But the situation has changed now, and, as I mentioned, last year I turned to both international and national institutions, informing about the steps taken by the Latvian Government closer to ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Torture and, at the same time, pointing out that there is no room for delay in establishing a national preventive mechanism in Latvia. I call for support to be given to the need for ratification of the said Additional Protocol, which would prevent human rights violations of vulnerable people in the future. When deciding on the budget for 2018, the Saeima supported the allocation of additional funding to the Ombudsman's Office, which allows to strengthen the capacity of the Ombudsman's Office for preventive visits to institutions where persons have or might have limited freedom. Thus, as of 2018, we will regularly visit such institutions using preventive methodology, preventive means, in order to prevent torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment with their clients. And finally. The last one in my report, which I want to highlight. Strengthening of the Ombudsman's institution in the Constitution. This is apparent from the 2015 report. It has also been updated in 2016 discussions and in 2017 discussions, and now, in my opinion, the situation that this topic deserves special attention has become more mature once. I have stressed several times that the institution of the Ombudsman must be included in the family of constitutional institutions, must be recorded in the Constitution, because it is this institution that works to protect human fundamental rights and promote good governance. Of course, according to the Law on the Structure of the State Administration, every institution of state administration and local government is responsible for respect and promotion of human rights within the limits of its competences. Strengthening the institution of the Ombudsman in the Constitution would also strengthen compliance of the national institution for the protection of human rights with the so-called principles of Paris, which includes a set of key minimum recommendations adopted by the UN General Assembly on the status and activities of national human rights institutions in the field of protection and promotion of human rights. It should be noted that the Ombudsman has been given a difficult task in Latvia – to ensure that his non-binding proposals are implemented in society and legal system, where only mandatory orders are used. Thus, the authority of the institution of the Ombudsman, its independence and reputation in general are very important. In order to strengthen such authority, the institution of the Ombudsman also needs an appropriate legal status, i.e. the strengthening of the Constitution. Strengthening the institution of the Ombudsman In the Constitution would not only protect the institution from unwanted political manipulations, but would also signal the serious will of political decision-makers to strengthen the fundamental rights of Latvian citizens and state responsibility towards citizens. Thank you. (Applause) Substitution: “Let me talk!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U15	Thank you to the Ombudsman for his very comprehensive report. Thank you for your good cooperation with the Saeima. I think that our colleagues in the various commissions would also like to get these booklets. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis. ( Interface: “Start, Artus! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U16	Such liquid applause after the Ombudsman's report was heard here. And, you know, colleagues, for me very often, for three years in principle, when you've been watching from the side, the question arises: what are you doing here? What are you doing here? Why did you intend to become Members, go to politics in your life? Why did you come up with that? What was your motivation to do when there was one of the main reports of the year...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U17	For the report, Mr. Neighbours! Please (The driver of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) , talk about the report!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U18	I am referring specifically to the report.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U19	For the report!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U20	You do not violate my human rights, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U21	Please, report!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U22	This is one of the most important reports in the year. And maybe you've forgotten the facts a little bit, but Latvia is still Europe's leader - in the first place - in terms of infant mortality. You've forgotten it. I mentioned this to you last year. You may find it funny, maybe it's irrelevant, but we're the first. Latvia loses 33 people every day who leave to live elsewhere. You've forgotten that too. This is still happening. Every day in Latvia, also today (I hope not), one teenager commits suicide. Every day! Latvia has the highest number of survivors of maintenance in Europe - 33 thousand! And that's what I said a year ago! ( Interface: “What is the solution? ” ) As a result of this solution, I created such a proposal as my proposal, which was accepted, and thank the Saeima for doing so. Those who do not pay their children a maintenance allowance of EUR 114 are deprived of the driver's rights, which means that instead of 33 thousand euros ever collected by the Maintenance Guarantee Fund... The fund received 33 thousand euros a month earlier, but now it receives 450 thousand euros a month! But what about the Director of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, even though the Ombudsman always reminded us that man is the most important person? Man's the key! Now the situation... from the same foundation... A girl is born a child, a girl is a minor, father, also turns out to be a minor (in life it happens)... father does not try to take care of the child, the girl goes to the Maintenance Guarantee Fund and says: “Give me, please, some kind of support!” The director says: “No! Thank you. See you!” Think about it, it has 400 thousand euros more per month because of these amendments to the law (the fact that the driver's right to be deprived of them is being deprived of them) and he still has a pity for one of the Latvian citizens! What a nihilism! But there are 13 new jobs - the Maintenance Guarantee Fund has achieved this. The Ministry of Justice now has 13 new jobs. Apparently, this money is well learned. But one little baby who really needed money didn't find it! Mom wrote a complaint to the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman did so that this child received their money. And it doesn't matter whether the father is a minor or he is an adult. These are the concerns of our citizens, Latvia. That is the heart of this fund! Instead of collecting money and creating new posts for yourself. Three people worked there before. It's just money, it's what they need right away! That's the thing. Your role as Members is to take care of people. Take care of people - that's the main thing. What is Latvia's biggest value? What? Railway? ( Interface: “Neighbourhood! ”) ) Yes, perhaps a neighbor, but actually a man. Because that neighbor is also a man. Latvia's only true value is human! We need to take care of people! And this is the role of the Ombudsman. It is repeated to you continuously for a year from year to year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U23	Thank you, Mr Kaimiņa, the time for your debate has come to an end. Do Members have reservations if a Member brings together both speaking times? ( The utterances: “Let it speak! ” ) Thus, the two speaking times are combined. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U24	So what I'm going to try to say quickly. The Ombudsman openly said that bureaucracy is too great. E-government doesn't work. If we are talking about e-health, then it turns out that in e-health (the head of the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission will not allow me to lie) there are at least 72 people responsible for why e-health is still not working. 72 people - this is a collective responsibility. It's no longer a responsibility. You're not going to get any more concrete. So if we raise eGovernment to a higher level, we can release a very large number of officials and cut red tape. That is what should now be done. We don't need so many officials! Next thing. The public is not informed... Where's my time? ( There is no time left for the debate on the floor.) I don't know how to lead now... So the public is not informed, people do not know what their rights are, what they have to do. You've shifted your focus again, but... Imagine that you are an investigator and that you have 93 things on the table. Imagine that Mrs Barch is sitting at the table, which has 93 things she has to investigate over the course of the year. How can she investigate 93 cases if she is alone? And now it is also for investigators in the Latvian police. There's no capacity! What I'm trying to say... that 60 percent of Latvia’s population owes to fast credit companies. High-speed credit firms with a mark-up of 189 percent per year. 60 percent of the population! Dear people of the country, use the credit card of the companies! They are located in every region. The total number of companies in Latvia is 31. Use them, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U25	Mr. Neighbours, your extra time is over, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U26	I would like an extra time! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums is applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U27	Not possible. Thank you. You're off the microphone. Thank you, Mr. Neighbours. The name of the Member, Inese Laizāne. You have a microphone turned off, Mr. Neighbours. Please leave the table! The name of the Member, Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U28	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I am on the Ombudsman's report. We do not have a lot of officials coming up on this platform who have been given the opportunity to present their report in the annual section. I really call on you to get to know everyone about the Ombudsman's report. We had an exclusive opportunity on Tuesday to listen to Mr Janson and his wonderful team of experts, to ask questions and to discuss and discuss all these things that Mr Janson has read from the platform today. The negatives noticed by the Ombudsman are like a pond stone that turns water, and I am glad to say that it is very often perceived by journalists and then the entire society joins. And so we can slowly, step by step, solve all the many issues that are reflected in the Ombudsman's report from year to year, and which we know about directly or indirectly. We are slowly dealing with the protection of children's rights, social issues, education issues, and that could call a lot, a lot. On behalf of the Commission, I can thank Mr Janson for his cooperation, and thank his experts, who very often come to the Commission's meetings. And while the Ombudsman's report has a recommended nature, I really call on us to go into it and to pull out the grain that we can realistically turn into both law and executive. Once again, thank you for your annual report and I call on colleagues to get to know it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U29	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U30	Hello, brothers and sisters! I would like to say a great deal of thanks to Mr Ombudsman, because in fact, if we want to develop up, objective criticism is very, very necessary. However, this objective criticism must be taken into account and, in some way, must respond. I fully agree with the Ombudsman that we currently have very important issues relating to children. More than 30 percent of children are not provided with what the law says is that they have the right to a family. We are spending time on some debate on the Istanbul Convention, but we are completely ignoring the fact that 30 percent of our children, more than 120,000, grow without both parents. And I completely agree with Mr Janson that children are often used in some sort of relationship. And if Mr. Village had children, he would also know that... In my opinion, if these issues were resolved and the rights of the orphanage were indeed respected, then there would be no such fund at all. This fund has been created mainly because children are used in the conduct of relationships. The other very important thing. I fully agree with Mr Janson also in the sense that we are looking apathically, looking indifferently, at the issue of pay and purchasing power. You have noticed that prices in European Union shops are, in principle, equivalent? Both in Paris, Berlin and Riga. I hope you've noticed. And if you have studied the tax system, you know that the tax system is about the same in the countries of the European Union. But the difference between what money a Latvian citizen receives and what his purchasing power is, and what a French or German citizen's purchasing power is. But we accept it as a norm. And we do not go into the details that Latvian entrepreneurs are also placed in a worse position. If the customer of the Latvian entrepreneur has two or three times lower purchasing power than in Germany, then the entrepreneur is getting worse and harder to develop. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolish's intermediate calls.) And we are not concerned that our economy is beating from the fact that our business is in a worse position than the German businessman. In principle, this is also the problem of Latgale. Why is Latgale empty? Because it really makes no sense for business there, because people are unable to buy what it prepares there. The next thing I want to pay attention to. I also fully agree with Mr Janson on matters relating to judicial power. And I call on all colleagues, including Mr. Artus, not only to criticise, but also to do something. The law “On Judicial Power” is opened. Let us get this question straightened so that the courts are those that satisfy us! Another thing that I want to mention, which has not been talked about, but which our friend has also touched a little, is that the right of our citizens to grow in Latvia is significantly restricted. A third of Latvia's population lives abroad, and we regard it as a norm. These people have the right to live here and we must ensure that these people have the opportunity to live here. And let's bring peace to this apathy! Well, feel like we're able to raise our economy! I say: if Singapore manager could sort out his country, then we, the descendants of the Latvian strife, can do so. Well, let's cover it! We feel it! Another issue in which I have a harsh opposition to Mr Janson concerns health. The text states that we need to ensure health protection and minimum disease treatment in the country. At the moment, we are actually doing nothing to protect our health. I fully agree with Mr. Renar Putniņš. Well, we're not doing anything to protect their health. Yes, where there is money, we are ready to treat it there, but to protect it, we are definitely not ready to deal with it. And I fully agree with Mr Janson on the issue of the economy and public functions. We have an excessively inefficient state apparatus and the solution is very elementary. Very basic solution! Let's first...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U31	Mr Kalnozol, the time for your debate has come to an end.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U32	If you can, two minutes...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U33	Do Members have reservations if a Member unites both speaking times? ( The utterances: “Let it speak! ” ) So another two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U34	Thank you. Last, yes. Very basic solution. We sit down, determine the functions of the state. It's hard? Elementary! There are companies, firms that will tell you how much people need, what functions are needed, they will define, and everything will be fine. Now we get this state machine in order! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Well go to business!” ) and at the very end. We're good owners in our land!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U35	Thank you, colleagues. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U36	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Ivars Brībers, Ints Dālder... yes, Sergey Dolgopolovs, Artis Gustovskis, Jānis Kzžads, Rihards Kols, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Aivars Meija, Roman Mežeckis, Sergey Mirskis, Edgars Putra... is, Valdis Skujiņš, Edwards Smiltēns, Mārtiņš Šics, Silvija Šimfas, Jānis Trupovnieks, Jānis Urbanovičs and Igors Zujevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U37	Thank you. Interruption until 10 a.m. 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U38	Dear colleagues, Colonel is 11.00. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - Annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia for 2017. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U39	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, Dear guests! A great many opinions have already been expressed, and I will not repeat. I fully agree with these critical speeches and reminders that the most important person in Latvia, however, is man. And everything starts with the proper treatment of the child. The report does not surprise me once again. I believe that only the consequences are described, but there is no explanation of the reasons that have led to these consequences. And we can still list... It's not all listed. Unfortunately, there is only one small part. And so it would be right if it were not here in five minutes to criticise this article - certain points or everything... There must be a conference where all ministers sit and answer why the respected Ombudsman has so many reproofs in all areas. And I want to repeat what has already been said from the platform several times: if education were organised, there would be no more half a reminder of what is happening to children. We don't give children normal education, we don't give them normal existence. We are currently dealing with 16-20 projects - we are reorganising something, including the training of six-year-old children. Bullshit is there! Listen to the scientists. I'll just give you one example... Mr Janson himself must be responsible for what has been said. And I'll give you a small example. In his 2016 report Mr. Jansons did not talk about problems in boarding schools, children's houses, shelters, but he spoke about song festivals. I will quote just one sentence: “The irresponsibleness of the school youth song festival organizers has allowed the event to develop into a disaster of Zolitūde’s tragedy, as almost twice as many people were on the stage of Mežaparks’ evelopment than was allowed by the owners of the eve.” On the same trellis, where, as he spent the whole year on the public with the help of the mass media, only 6000 could be found, now he will stand - without their reconstruction! - 9600 singers, adults with an average weight of 100 kilograms! And guess what the result is! And what did one of our Members say? I will quote one passage from a speech by Member Chigan in the Commission on 10 May 2016: “The child felt very bad at this song festival, because the child was subject to the ambitions of superconductors to self-confirmation. It was a very heavy regime. And many will no longer want to sing in this mode and will not want to participate in song festivals.” And so on. You can take it and read it. The Commission's website certainly contains this audio record. And what has it led to? This has led us to the 1-4 squares of 740 schools in only 390 schools - almost one third. And it's the source for the great song festival. The boys' choir will not come collectively to Cesis only because the director of the Cesis School has no arranged infrastructure with a smoke detector and children cannot sleep on the colossal... Let's take the mattresses in the gyms. Why? Because he'll be judged otherwise. And so throughout the year the society was deceived and led to a lack of singers. There will be only 1400 in the Cesis Estrade, although so far there has always been very, very much. Many school directors don't... renounces state grants for the management of clusters only so as not to participate in pointless choir shows (in the view of many Members). I call on Mr Janson to write shorter and to make an assessment of the Ministry of Education and Science - whether education has been deliberately led to the Kraham. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U40	Mr Platoper, your debate is over. Thank you. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U41	Madam President, can you combine the two times of the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U42	Do Members object to the merger of both times? There's no objection. So, seven minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U43	Thank you, colleagues. Of course, this report, like the previous one, places more emphasis on children's rights. But there's a lot. The Ombudsman's report is extremely broad. From shortcomings in protecting children's rights, catering at school, starting from the age of six, children's right to be heard, sociological adjustment of children in municipalities to the rights of people with disabilities. The report also concerns the rights of prisoners, judicial ethics, attorney... the health system and even the Law of Religious Organisations and Jurmala Cemetery. Well, I must say, the report is quite broad. It seems to me that the Ombudsman is trying to show once again how seriously he is working, and we have no doubt about that. That is why I will not try to restate all that vast matter. This is not possible in the remaining six minutes. But I would like to respond to his call to talk about the role and strengthening of the institution of the Ombudsman. I will add, however, to the contribution of the Ombudsman, Mr Janson, and also to the report. Two things. One, I think, is a good thing, and the other, it's not too good. First of all, I'll start with the Institute as such. Ten years have passed since we were an Ombudsman, so to speak, physically seen the action. Ten years ago, the magazine “The Lawyer’s Name” judged this official in allegory. And there were such words: “What is the duty of the watchman? ” The more the Ombudsman was positioned, and that is the case. ‘ What is part of the watchdog’s duties? Smoking, rolling or coaching? What watchdog would be needed by society? Peaceable, friendly or, where appropriate, angry?’ I think we're the Ombudsman... and if I have an abstract idea of an Ombudsman as such, I have just imagined Jury Janson. He's in front of me. And that's a good sign. Since 17 March 2011, he has worked exactly for seven years and four days. And I think he's done a good job. His institution has also worked well. All these 44 employees, five of whom are men, have worked very well, according to his statistics. Thank them. Because the Ombudsman can only rely on authority in his activities. And this authority has been won step by step. I think that the time has come for the Ombudsman's Institute to be truly strengthened in the Constitution, because basically we have seven constitutional institutions at the moment. And if students have to tell us why we have the State Audit Office in the Constitution, but there is no Ombudsman, you can't really answer. If only this is the political will of the legislators. But both institutions make recommendations. The Ombudsman's report. As I said, one is good, one is bad. That's a good thing. It is so, in my opinion, that the issue of the State Revenue Service, which is being analysed here, is quite important, especially in view of yesterday's sitting of the Legal Commission. I wasn't there, I was in the sitting of another commission. But from what was heard in the press, it was possible to conclude that, let us say, the State Revenue Service about if someone will delay the submission of a tax return... that these penalties will increase quite drasticly. Let us say that the final penalty of EUR 280 will increase to EUR 700. So for the first 10 days from 20 to 70 euros. It's such a quick leap. And what the Ombudsman writes, specifically on pages 292, 293. He writes as follows: ‘... the actions of the SRS are limited to self-governing’. The SRS does not comply with the time limits laid down in regulatory enactments. The SRS lacks developed and identified methodologies for tax enforcement prevention. Critics are also about the www.latvija.lv portal, about the Penal Register, which does not really reflect the situation. I really call on the Ombudsman not to expand into graffiti to try to tell us that he is working well. We have no doubt about this. The previous speakers may have their own insights, but their general situation is good. Perhaps one serious subject needs to be addressed - the same State Revenue Service. Because the fact that taxes must be collected has no doubt about this. At the same time, though, let us say that if too many opportunities come here, we are concerned about whether these opportunities are being well identified. And neither is the Head of the State Revenue Service, she has gone to the best of the sun, I at least think so. Well, here, and that's why we should pay attention... Perhaps the issue of SRS could be one priority to not only talk about children. Such matters should be investigated. That bad thing. This is about pages 268 and 269 of the report. This is the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which the Ombudsman provided on the reduction of forced land rent. This is about amendments to the law “On privatisation of state and municipal residential houses” and the law “On land reform in cities of the Republic of Latvia”. The Ombudsman has expressed his opinion on legitimate expectations to the Constitutional Court. True, he did not fully reflect on it and analysed it in his opinion, which is already almost 400 pages long. But this is what? It is about the Ombudsman's position on the side of landowners and, in fact, he has acknowledged that the legislator has no good solutions (and this can be accepted - we have been embarrassing on the ground for at least the last 20 years!) and that the legislator is not trying to do anything. I will not talk about details because of the time constraints; this will continue to be discussed by Mr Valaiņa, who is the head of the relevant working group of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, which is precisely the problem. But read page 269. It states that the amount of the rent is currently being dealt with without careful consideration and balancing of the interests of the landowners. What's that? The fact that there was a proposal from six percent of the cadastral value to, say, three percent... to such a rental - that is, in my opinion, a good step. Why lobbying these great rich people? After all, the Ombudsman has to take care of vulnerable people, hard-ends. And we can analyse and see very different and wide-ranging legal confidence. In spite of this criticism (I am a teacher, we must both criticise and praise those students who come with bachelor's and master's work), I believe that the Ombudsman's institution needs to be strengthened in the Constitution. He works well despite rare times when his leg slips perhaps in the direction of lobbying. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U44	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U45	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I will touch on one small detail of this report. In particular, on page 269, the Ombudsman additionally draws attention to the fact that the legislator is not sufficiently active in solving the cessation of forced shared property, as well as in the contested legal norm seeks to eliminate the consequences of the problem, not the causes. I would like to say that, in my opinion, the committee responsible for the Saeima is working quite actively. And this problem, which has not been dealt with in practice for almost 20 years... In fact, the working group set up by the Commission has already completed its work and the solution has already been prepared. And the Commission has already supported this, and soon we will see it in the Saeima, we will be able to work and support this draft law at first, second and final readings. It's a remark that this work is going on a little... I would say that it is quite complicated. That draft law, which was received from the government, had to be substantially modified so that it was as effective as possible so that it really could achieve their objective so that the shared property could, in substance, be terminated. In my opinion, the commission responsible has done their work as quickly as possible, because there were a large number of stakeholders there and their results were quite difficult. So, I think this entry's been made sometime earlier, because now the commission's done this, literally a few weeks ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U46	Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U47	Could I ask you two minutes here?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U48	Are there any objections to merging the two times of the debate? There's no objection. So seven minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U49	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I will talk about education, especially this child of pain - boarding schools. That is, of course, one small part of the whole large report. The Ombudsman’s report rightly emphasises that boarding schools are not and cannot be assimilated to children’s extra-family care institutions or to long-term social care and social rehabilitation institutions. The director of the boarding school is not, and cannot be, the legal guardian of children and assume the responsibilities of parents of their pupils. However, the Ombudsman has not addressed in the report another major problem related to the existence of boarding schools, which has become more acute recently. Of course, the closure of boarding schools, the return of children to families and the integration of children into general education institutions is a noble goal, however, we invite the Ombudsman also to address the question of whether implementation of such a goal in Latvia is really possible and whether a more significant violation of children's rights is hidden behind this noble goal. The second chapter of the Law on the Rights of the Child provides for a range of rights for children, for example, according to the law, each child has the right to adequate nutrition, clothing and shelter. We also invite the Ombudsman to look into what will happen to each particular child (I stress - everyone) after the end of the boarding school. Does he have a family to return? After the closure of the boarding school, will each of its pupils be provided with food, clothing and shelter, and full physical and intellectual development? We call on the Ombudsman to address these issues in the near future in order to prevent them from being subjected to even more serious infringements of the law when fleeing the wolf, directly in the paws of the bear, or in an attempt to avoid any restrictions on the rights of the child. Will the elimination of possibly insufficient education lead to the risk of children not receiving education at all? On Tuesday we had meetings with the director of boarding schools, with the Ombudsman, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, representatives of the protection of children's rights, and so on. And now we see that only Liepaja and Balvu municipalities have made a decision to continue fighting for the existence of their boarding schools. Last year three boarding schools - Drabesi, Cesvaine and Vecbebros - have ceased or reorganized. In turn, Aglona, Vaiņode, Mālpils and Biržu municipalities have announced their decision to close boarding schools located in municipalities, without seeing the possibility to continue their funding from municipal funds. The Drabėčių boarding school was mentioned as a good example on Tuesday, from which 45 students 37 have moved to general secondary school. There is no problem with inclusion. This is one positive example, but where are the eight? If we take an arithmetical progression and look at it, we will not know which direction 360 children leave. It's a whole Canadian boarding school. That's our goal? Article 12 of the Law on the Protection of Children's Rights - Social Rights of the Child. Two points: ‘A child who does not receive sufficient parental care shall be entitled to public and municipal social assistance and social services. For each orphan and child without parental care, the state and municipality shall provide the social guarantees established by the Cabinet of Ministers.” The last sittings of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which took place here, highlight all the problematic issues: the municipalities have set up these schools so that the municipalities also address all these problems. Does not the state really have to deal with problems in closing boarding schools, namely children who will remain without these schools, who will not go to school and remain real on the street? I think this is wrong. 53 percent of boarding schools come from very poor, often disadvantaged, families. Some children have behavioural and physical impairments, along with them need specially trained staff 24 hours a day. It is cynical and foolish to ignore the fact that you yourself, Mr Ombudsman, have repeatedly said that thousands of families are poor and on the border of poverty. That is the reality. You are right - you cannot support the family with EUR 400, even more so if the child has health problems. Where will these children stay after the school is closed? Children and their problems will not disappear simply because the Ministry wants it. Maintenance of boarding schools in our country costs 3.5 million, but the Ministry of Education and Science has already decided to allocate 39 million to a social programme that will fight against school delays in ordinary schools. After the closure of boarding schools, perhaps the strongest ones will survive, but most of them, as their teachers warn, may be on the road of crime or even go out of life. The consequences will be irreversible, and then nothing can be corrected. I therefore believe that the decision to close boarding schools violates children's rights, and what will happen to these children will be the conscience of the government, namely the Cabinet of Ministers, and of all those Members who voted in favour of closing boarding schools. You, Mr. Janson... You do not fight for the rights of these children of fate, but you do not allow children to enjoy shelter, food and their health and even life-saving services. Mr. Ombudsman! You have very clearly emphasised the fundamental human rights in your report. In your view, this is the right to education, the right to accessible and high-quality health care, the right to social security, property and work. You write: “We must open our hearts, get into the shoes of society. This is particularly the case for policy-makers and decision-makers." Please leave personally to boarding boarding school, visit a child's family, enter his shoes and say exactly what awaits him after he closes the boarding school! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U50	Thank you. The name of Member Aija Barch. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U51	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members. The Ombudsman's report by Mr Jur Jansons today contains a very large number of critical words for social security and, therefore, for health care. And I therefore believe that it is my duty to stand before you - not to judge, not to excuse, but to call for joint work, to cooperate. The guaranteed minimum income benefit or GMI is still insufficient, as well as pensions for very many people in Latvia are still small, small. I would like to discuss these issues with the Ombudsman at least until the end of this term, by the fall, so seriously. And why? Because the latest studies clearly and lightly write: Latvia does not act correctly, as it requires people to prove their working time at the age of 63 and at the age of three months - 15 years. You see, it's too much. Then there is the question: What will we do with future generations? Let’s say, “You can’t work, you can’t pay taxes, you can’t do anything, but the country will have to take care of you!” Is that so? I think this is a dangerous trend. One thing that bothered me very much this morning, listening to what the Ombudsman said in the Latvian Radio 1 programme. Fair words - The Health Care Financing Act of the Cabinet of Ministers submitted to the Saeima very poorly prepared. Together, we tried to correct it. But the word that the commission “muttered” in the process of drafting this law... I thought that this harsh word for action was out of place. It was unthinkable. However, we did so together, and the responsible staff of the institution you represent were always present at the commission meeting. We have also looked at your proposals, but one was not supported, and it was about people who do not pay taxes under the general regime from 2019 onwards, but need to participate and pay more in person to receive healthcare in secondary and tertiary care. Together with the issue of primary care, we have already managed and it will be provided to absolutely everyone, including the many social groups that we agreed on in the law. Dear colleagues, Your Honorary Ombudsman and your team! I support your work, thank you for many things. But for one thing, I'm worried. Your reports, which have been correctly written in paper form, but the mass in the media sound very emotional. I would like to call for the future when we talk about these psychological clinics, when we talk about state social care centres and municipal care centres, to understand that people are doing a very difficult and very difficult job there and are still receiving very low pay. Here is what our common shoulder needs, so that we can correct this situation when preparing the next year's budget. If you don't mind... it turns out I couldn't tell you everything.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U52	Do Members have reservations about... Is that so? ( Insights: “There is no objection! ” ) So another two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U53	Thank you. What would I like to say? I know that your team is well-educated, you have young employees, mainly lawyers, who go to these treatment and social care institutions. But when you talk to people... in these state social care centres, adults are not with such mental disorders as we recognise in Latvia as third group disabled, but there are only first and second group disabled. So people with very severe disabilities. They need to be able to talk, understand, and evaluate their state of health. That is why I have a great call. In the next tests, Mr Janson, call on a psychiatrist who has experience in a psychiatric clinic. It is a big difference - to work in private practice or to work in a psychiatric clinic. And believe me, then there will be a slightly different view of a number of questions. And maybe you too... Don't take evil, but that's my long experience, not just working in the country's work. There is such a very good and interesting book, colleagues. If we ever want to get to know people who are next to us and who have these serious illnesses... It is the book of Professor I.Eglišs in the blue cover with one word in the title “Psychiatry”. And then we'll get a lot clearer. I thank you for your work. And if you want (not as you said to the radio, "I don't want to go there myself... “), I am ready to accompany you personally by visiting the most serious psychiatric clinics or care facilities. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Time! Mrs. Mūrniece, time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U54	Mrs Barch, sorry, your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U55	Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U56	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U57	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the Ombudsman's report covers a great many topics, I will not list them all. At the same time, I would like to compare this report with the Prime Minister's report, which was seen here some time ago. It was very thinr and Mr Kučinski's presentation was about three times shorter. We have heard a lot of words “call”. Mrs Barch just said this most to me. You can then read how many times you used the word “I call”. But, honourable representatives of the Group of the Greens/Family Union, you can not only call - you can talk to Mr Kučinski for yourself and also take action. Take action! You often do not want to listen to what the Association of the Regions of Latvia tells you. The draft law presented today by the Group of the Regions of Latvia with three votes against and many votes 'abstain' you rejected. Then at least listen to what the Ombudsman said, because I think there are quite a lot of things and topics that need to be addressed. And maybe it would be worth stating that one of the criteria for the next Prime Minister is that a prior experience in the work of the Ombudsman or at least in the Ombudsman's office is desirable. And then maybe the next Prime Minister will better understand the many problems that need to be worked on. Thus, if Mr Janson was not quite able to offer the post of Prime Minister, then at least the Minister of Justice would.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U58	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U59	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Janson. The Ombudsman's office team! I, like other colleagues, would really like to welcome the work of the Ombudsman's Office team. In the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, we get a lot of work together, and we really have the confidence that the Ombudsman's Office's staff are doing their job with confidence, faith and enthusiasm. And unfortunately, it's a hard job, and it often happens to be in situations where, to say, I want to shoot the messenger just because the message you bring is not pleasant. However, I would like to wish the Ombudsman's Office to continue talking about unpleasant, uncomfortable things, as much has already been achieved in this regard. And the issue of deinstitutionalisation, the fact that all our children should live in a family environment, is very important, and we must continue to talk about this until we come to a situation where children will no longer be placed in institutions in our country. But, as several colleagues have already pointed out, the Ombudsman's report is indeed very large this year, and we each highlight a specific area that seems particularly important to us. And I want to talk about the issue of freedom of expression. This is not a central issue in the Ombudsman's report, but I am pleased that Mr Janson has touched on this issue and has noticed that the so-called information expenditures of municipalities distort competition, that their status is unclear and that, unfortunately, there is a situation where these information expenditures of municipalities, which are not in a clear position, are extortioning important players from our regional press circulation - regional newspapers - by deducting their advertising revenues from their subscribers. Because people often receive the local government information free of charge, there can read horoscopes, read about the travels of a neighbor of a council in Asia, and so on. Since this issue is very important, and I am pleased that it is noted in the Ombudsman's report, because these expenditures play a huge role in strengthening local democracy. And I am very happy that the National Administration and Local Government Commission has moved from a zero point right now and it is likely that soon we will be able to define what is an information edition of the municipality, and hopefully we will not teach citizens with the management of the relevant council more often than once a month for informational expenses, as is currently provided for in this regulation of the Law “On Local Authorities”, and we will be able to accept changes to this law. Dear colleagues, Since the Bauska Life newspaper brought an action before the European Court of Human Rights and since its adoption, I am a regular reader of the Bauska Life. And this newspaper can really say that it talks about important things in Bauska district, Vecumnieki district; it talks about adult families, it talks about information that has been discovered in KGB archives about what happened in Bauska district in Soviet times. It is talking about many major problems. In any case, I personally believe that it is extremely important for this regional press to continue to operate freely and to be able to finance its activities accordingly. I am very pleased that the employees of the Ombudsman's Office have drawn attention to another regional newspaper – the newspaper “Ludza Lande”, in respect of which the editors have taken a decision to prosecute for the fact that the editor of this newspaper made public an opinion about a dome worker and a sworn lawyer who was not acceptable to this sworn lawyer. Colleagues, we devoted this matter to the meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, and I would like to thank Mrs Laizane for having had the opportunity to get to know the material of this case. Colleagues, we all had the impression that this could be the case where criminalising freedom of expression has indeed been disproportionate. I call on the Ombudsman and his office to pay more attention to these issues and look forward to the next year's report, which will be reflected even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U60	Thank you to Mrs. Chigan. Your debate is over. The name to the Member Atm Lejny. Do Members have reservations about combining the two times of the debate? There are no objections, so seven minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U61	Colleagues! Dear Rule of Law! I have three questions for you. My aim is to improve our mutual cooperation. You said that many children were taken away from their families in England, I guess they were talking about England, and given back to other families, to foreign culture, and so on. I have a question, I would like to clarify: are four children many? One, two, three, four... not even five. I wouldn't say that it's a lot. We had very, very serious discussions in the European Commission on this. We even devoted a whole session to it, and we found that out of the 90,000 children who are taken out of their families in England, about 20 are from Latvian families. And of them about 20, which were taken away, all were returned, except four. So we're going back to four... The families got back because they were ready to cooperate with the English law enforcement authorities. They were ready, their families, because they realized that they had done something wrong. For example, as in Latvia, where we see a poor girl with a broken face on advertising... we do not pay as much attention to it as to the four children who were taken out of England’s families. The other children were given back to the Latvian authorities, and they still call the following institutions from England: “How is that baby doing?” There you go! That is one question. That's for those who are spiritually ill. Mrs Barch has already addressed this. A huge debate erupted in Germany two months ago: whether it is necessary to wait for the mentally ill person to kill a relative to be hospitalized, or whether he should be hospitalized preventively before he kills a family member. There was a specific case. I think that Germany will change its laws. We have the same laws, that is, we have to wait to kill a man... and not just that. But we come from a society, a deep society. I know both very poor people and purely wealthy people, and I also know people who have this problem, and I know what hell is there for family members with a person who thinks he is completely healthy and doesn't have to go to hospital. Because you see, a person with a mental illness already doesn't know he's a mental illness. He thinks that the rest of them are guilty, that he is sick, and denys that he is sick at all. I ask you to take a closer look at this issue and listen to what Mrs Barch said, because the problem has been resolved in Denmark. You don't have to wait to kill. You can go and get that guy... can go with the judge, who has examined it in the past... And the third question. The third question is about inequality. You said there's now a salty improvement. But I think it's a lot if it's not growing like in other countries anymore... And also in the West... I don't need to mention to you the one percent that... who own almost everything in America, Britain and so on. About Russia... I'm not going to talk about what's going on there at all. And have you taken into account the fact that there are a large number of envelope salaries in Latvia? Because if you took into account the wages of the envelope, then I think that the scene would not be so terrible anymore. I myself live in the countryside and I know who gets the envelope salary and who is the minimum wage. And they don't even have such terrible poverty. I'm not saying... I'm not talking about everyone. Yes, this is a very serious factor. Please take this into account. You talked a lot about rights at the outset. That's right! Very good! But I think there was a lack of one word – “responsibilities”. I have a duty not to go to the red light, because then I threaten the lives of other people. You should think about that, too! And also children, students have responsibilities. When I went to school, I was obliged to create a fireplace every morning so that we would all be warm, and I did not have to do it as a specially designated person. Thank God for growing up in the 1950s! And what I want to say at the end. I sometimes think that if Sweden had experienced what we had experienced since 1939... In 1991... and what is happening today... then what would Sweden look like today? Some countries have succeeded, others have not. We're not working, yeah. But I think we are doing a good job, improving the situation of society. And with you, we could do it even better. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U62	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U63	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! A short replica. The Ombudsman's report certainly contains a great deal of material for analysis, reflection. Explicit criticisms of economic and social policies. But I'd rather talk about the speeches you spoke to the Saeima today, honourable colleagues! The discussion of the report has gradually become a criticism of government work. We are talking about poverty, growing social inequality, unemployment, which is still twice as high as what is recommended to us by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and also about emigration. However, I would like to ask you: where have you been when the austerity policy was being supported? Where were you when the ratification of the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in the Economic and Monetary Union, which led to the deadlock and stagnation of Europe, was supported? And where were you when the Law on Fiscal Discipline was approved? It is all these economic conditions, all these decisions that led Latvia to the situation that was described by the Ombudsman in his speech today. I would simply like you to remember this report, which was presented to you today by the Ombudsman, the next time you vote in favour of the new government or in favour of trust in the existing government. Perhaps then we will not make new mistakes by opting for such individuals and political forces in the executive power, which will only continue along the same path and thus bring new substances into the hands of the Ombudsman - this or the next one. These are our mistakes - not those of anyone else, but our mistakes - that we have allowed such policies and the consequences of such policies. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U64	The name of Member Inese Sustrout.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U65	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to touch on just one point that I heard in the Ombudsman's report. Thank you to the Ombudsman for touching the question of access to the environment. The report pointed out that the availability of the environment at construction sites is not respected because it is costly. Yeah. But I can say that it is not respected for another reason. The Construction Law lays down building principles, and one of them is the principle of environmental accessibility, according to which the construction process creates an environment in which every person can move and use the building according to its type. And the next article defines the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers in the field of construction. It is made clear and clear that the Cabinet of Ministers is responsible for the establishment of a building regulation, which lays down technical requirements for buildings and their elements and environmental accessibility requirements for buildings. We have to fight together with the Ombudsman's office and construction industry specialists to adopt the Cabinet of Ministers and to develop a building regulation with requirements for access to the environment by the Ministry of Economics. Currently, the Construction Law allows the building board to adopt derogations from any principles. But if these principles are not laid down in the Cabinet Regulations, what derogations? What are we going to depart from? It is necessary to strengthen this requirement, the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on access to the environment need to be drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U66	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U67	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his extensive report, for his work, and I would also like to say that the Ombudsman remains the voice of reason in this sometimes cloudy policy pond and is able to see real problems. Unfortunately, I have to say that I do not agree with what has just been said from one colleague's mouth, namely that the Ombudsman is doing things that are not really important. Only one, two, three, four children (Dep. A.Lejiņš: “Happy children!” ) has been separated for life from their family. It's really very funny... Maybe someone might think so. But actually... I can say that in 2017, according to the latest data of the Ministry of Justice, in Great Britain 43 children were separated from the family or could have been separated; in 2016, they were only 26 cases. This means that the Ombudsman is doing his job by keeping an eye on this case and sometimes even interfering where the authorities have to do their work but do not do it. I must also say a great deal of thanks to the Ombudsman that, unlike the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he has been the one who has tried and used all the possibilities to inform parents about their rights and obligations when leaving the country. We know that this information poster on the protection of children's rights was located at Riga Airport, and that is exactly the merits of the Ombudsman. So thank you very much to him once again for that.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U68	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U69	Hello, colleagues! It's literally two short things. Of course, the Ombudsman deserves our respect for what he does and how he does. Remembering the former Ombudsman, this is, of course, like a night against a day. It is only necessary to elect the Ombudsman to continue this work. But there are two things I want to say. First of all, I wish the Ombudsman, perhaps, to focus more on things that can really be solved, which can help people, help children, and to deal less with things that, let us say, are at some level of public policy and require immediate large sums of money. We all understand that talking about these things is more than speaking after. As far as possible, the State is doing what can be done, and the last increase in the minimum wage also points to this. And the other thing. In the public space, there has recently been all sorts of information, and it may seem that it is a targeted campaign. But in any case, in order not to allow such campaigns, I wish the Ombudsman, however, to carefully assess his sources of information, because then questioning any such source of information makes it much worse for the information that comes from there, and sometimes even, let us say, gives some opponents the opportunity to question all their achievements. But in principle, I will repeat once again, the work of the Ombudsman is welcome and visible. And let it continue! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U70	Name to the Member... So no one wants to talk anymore. I closed the debate. Does Mr Ombudsman want to add something or explain? Please, the name of the Ombudsman, Juris Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U71	Yeah, thank you... Thank you for the good words. Thank you for your criticism. Thank you for still having the opportunity to do what I do! Because, of course, it is up to you to say so. I'm just... Wait a second! I'll put it in sequence... Member Platoper mentioned a number of things... ( Milestones.) I'm sorry! ( The transcripts are: “Your name is with a small letter! And a name mistake!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U72	Continue the debate. We have technical failures that will be resolved. ( Interface: “This is a violation of human rights! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U73	Member Platoper mentioned a number of things. If I may, I'll touch only two. I'm just gonna think about two. One thing. As regards the best interests of children and their safety, you have already demonstrated once again that this is not important to you. And child safety -- that's nothing like that, isn't it? And the other thing I want to say. ( Milestones.) Well, I am reporting on last year at all today, and I have not mentioned anything in my report about the song festival. You may have missed something. Member Balodis. Thank you for the good words, thank you also for this position on the amendments to the Constitution. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) But if we talk about forced lease relations (there we have an opinion in the Constitutional Court), then you should say: thank God that... Thank you to the Constitutional Court, which appreciates and looks at who is right, who is not; this is something that we will expect quite soon. But I heard... but maybe I listened a little bit and misunderstood... It will, of course, be said with irony... Should then be taken out of the Constitution, Article 105 - right to property - be amended?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Somehow I felt that way... But it's more irony, I'm sorry. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balodis: “I can’t speak!” ) Member of the Council of the European Union, Mr. Yes, thank you also for your criticism. But, you see, what I refer to in my report from year to year is the story of poverty, the story of social inequality. Internet school, general education boarding school, segregates a child, it is not a social care institution. I may have misunderstood, but... I heard that, then, everyone who is poor from these families... So these children should be placed in boarding school. No, no, no! This is, of course, also said with irony. But I can tell you what needs to be done (and this is the autonomous function of the municipality): families must be ensured... an opportunity for children to get to education. And I would like to emphasise once again what is recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia - that basic education is mandatory. What happens if boarding schools are abolished? It's very simple! Children will study in general education schools on a compulsory basis if it is linked to primary education. Moreover, the Convention for the Protection of the Rights of the Child... No, the exact title is ‘Convention on the Rights of the Child’... a clear and clear statement: the state must ensure access to education free of charge, and that means, in the broadest sense of this principle... and, if necessary, financial contributions must be made. Once again, I would like to stress that 30 percent of society (we are talking about last year) live below the poverty risk threshold or the poverty risk threshold, and that is the responsibility and responsibility of the government and Parliament to change their situation. And the answer to what the Member, Mr Leieniņa, said about inequality. This is a report from the European Commission's institution. It's not my invention. The institutions of the European Union have finally started to focus on the exercise and respect of national social and economic rights, as reducing social exclusion is one of the European Union's common principles. So that's... I didn't really understand whether it was irony or what it was... Mr. Leiņi's point. I heard that he knew about the recipients of envelope salaries. Receipt of envelope salaries is a criminal offence. I call on you to go to the law enforcement authorities immediately after the Saeima meeting and report it, or else you will have given a bad message to the public. You know about envelope salaries, but you're silent. No, that's great! ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.) Mrs Barch, thank you for your criticism. Thank you for your good words. But! We have two psychiatrists coming to the nursing homes. Not only for psychological clinics, but also for nurses. I'm forced to pay, I'm forced to accept, so to say, the children's psychiatrist at hourly rates, because unfortunately - unfortunately! - the supervisory authorities, the coordinating bodies, are not at the heights of tasks, as I have already mentioned in my report. The facts set out in our opinion are based on evidence. And if we're talking about social care centres, far away, from the psychiatry theme, so there's evidence there, which is also based on video recordings. And I would like to say once again that Article 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union refers to human dignity. We can also look at other international documents, and in particular I invite you to look at the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, which guarantees that everyone, including a person with severe dementia or a first or second disability, will receive respectful social services, treatment and so on, and so on. What happened in the social care centre mentioned above was not humane, either from an infrastructure point of view or from a care point of view. Of course, those employees in the institutions... It's not a job, it's a mission. And here we get the right to fair pay. It is also the result of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, it is also the result of other international documents. However, staff must have a sufficient motivation package, with sufficient capacity, with sufficient pay to enable them to do their job qualitatively. My role as the Ombudsman is not to provide any remuneration or salary, my role is to point out systemic human rights deficiencies, so I also often call and pray that you are in the country of the highest legislative power. It is not for nothing that I have mentioned in my introductory words that we are often good by law. Especially if we look at the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child - this is almost outstanding. But realization, implementation in life - a very lighthouse. From year to year, one large part of my report is devoted to the area of children's rights, although we have supervisory bodies, inspections and so on, and so on. I would like to say that something needs to be done in that area. It is necessary to shake the supervising inspection bodies so that they begin to do their work qualitatively. Finally, I must also say a great deal of thanks to the Prosecutor-General who, at the Prosecutors' Annual Report this year, stressed that the system for the protection of children's rights should be a priority. Because so far it has often been so: now these are children... Yes, of course, to investigate, to detect crimes against children - this is extremely difficult, especially if it has taken place in nursing homes, closed institutions or perhaps even psychological clinics with children with severe diseases. But they also have human rights, they also have the right to respect, they also have the right to respect for care and life! Wait a minute... For emotions. Emotional things, Mrs. Barch... Without emotions, you cannot - and especially if you are talking, say so, directly to the public. It was about (Interior)... Completely, both hands, support and... Now... Member Pimenov... What you said there... I didn't really understand why you addressed it in my direction. Either you've mixed something... But in principle, I did not participate in everything you mentioned. It was a government task. What do I have to do with that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I am referring to social inequality, poverty, and I am based on the documents of the European Commission, the Council of Europe. But there... I don't understand. I don't understand! And thank you to Mrs Stepanenko, who named these statistics. Yeah... I understand... Four children who have been taken out of citizens' families abroad - that's not what I was saying, so I understood from Member Leeniņa. They are our citizens, they are taken away! That's okay, isn't it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And finally, Mr. Sergeant. Member Sergeant, I didn't really understand what you were talking about there. What are the sources of information? But if you... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) What are the sources of information where we should be more careful... Is that so? You know, it's like it's... If something we've found somewhere in some tests... and if you had thought specifically about the Criminal Procedure Law... then it will not be unnecessary to remind us that the application was on 19 pages, with 25 annexes... Yeah, then, in total, there's only two volumes... The criminal procedure has been initiated. If I am not mistaken, there are about 11 persons in the case and there are 20 different episodes of possible criminal offences. And if you vote for a very dubious source of information, then I really call for a critical assessment, because if I am not mistaken, you have also been a journalist. In addition, criminal proceedings will clarify who is right and who is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U74	Thank you both to the Ombudsman for his report and for his comments. Dear colleagues, We do not have to vote on this report, and the report of 2017 of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia is considered. Dear colleagues, The Social and Labour Affairs Commission of Saeima asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and draft law drawn up by the committee “Amendments to the Law on Social Apartments and Social Housings” to be examined at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to exclude from it the draft Law on Cooperative Society. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On the dismissal of Andrejs Grūbe from the position of a judge of Kurzeme district court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U75	Hello, dear colleagues! On March 20, in the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, the draft decision “On the release of Andrejs Grūbe from office of a judge of Kurzeme district court” was reviewed. In his application to the Director of the Court Administration Andrejs Grūbe asks to direct documents for his removal from the office of a judge at his own wish from 3 April 2018. The Minister of Justice also asks the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia to consider the issue of the release of Andrejs Grūbe, the judge of Kurzeme district court from the office of a judge at its own wish on 3 April 2018. On this basis, and on the basis of the Law on Judicial Power, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported this draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Andrejs Grūbis to be released from the position of judge of Kurzeme district court at his own wish on 3 April 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U76	Thank you. Please call me! We will be voting for the draft decision “On Release of Andrejs Grūbe from the position of a judge of Kurzeme district court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Ieva Dambes as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U77	On March 20, in the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, the draft decision “On the approval of Ieva Dambes as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. To the candidates. Ieva Dambe was born in 1981. In 2004, she graduated from the University of Latvia, obtaining a lawyer's qualification. In 2006 “Turiba” University of Business has received master’s degree in law. On June 6, 2013 the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Ieva Dambi as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered Ieva Dambei to perform the duties of a judge at the Riga Court House of Administrative District Court, where she works at present. Judge Ieva Dambe will have worked as a judge for three years on 12 April 2018. In order to improve her qualification, judge Ieva Dambe participated in 31 seminars of the Latvian Judicial Training Centre, as well as participated in the training “Child Rights Protection” organised by the Judicial Administration and the Latvian Municipal Training Centre. The judge has specialized in the examination of cases related to construction, territorial planning and environmental law; social assistance, social insurance and employment issues; assistance in the resolution of apartment issues; as well as issues of the state civil service. Positive comments from the Chair of the Administrative district court and the Administrative regional court have been received about the work of the judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of the judge of the Administrative district court Ieva Dambe and delivered a positive opinion for the approval of the judge without any restrictions on the term of office. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Ieva Dambi to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U78	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the approval of Ieva Dambes as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is the treatment of parliamentary requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board On the agenda - request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Sergeja Mirska, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Klementyeva, Jeļenas Lazareva, Jānis Urbanoviča, Zenta Tretjaka, Igora Zuvėvs and Sergeja Potapkina to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden "For answers to Members' requests regarding questions No. 371/J12 and compliance of the Ministry's actions with regulatory requirements and public interests within the framework of the "OIK moratorium" established by the Government". The request on behalf of the Commission is made by Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U79	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We discuss the issue of compliance of the Ministry of Economics with the requirements of regulatory enactments within the framework of the “OIC moratorium”. In this context, the Commission has been discussing and considering that we do not have the capacity or the ability of individuals to go into such specific issues. Finally, the Appeals Commission decided by a majority that all documents relating to this issue received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs are sent to the prosecutor's office. We have also received a letter from the Criminal Law Department of the Office of the Prosecutor General, which I will read to you. The transmission of the application file. ‘ Pursuant to Section 26(3) of Criminal Procedure Law, Section 371(2) and Section 387(1) of Criminal Procedure Law, I send to you for consideration, organization by jurisdiction, subject to the norms of Section 30 of Criminal Procedure Law, materials submitted by the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia regarding actions of officials of the Ministry of Economics by implementing OIC. Please inform the applicant about the results of the examination of the application materials.’ So this set of materials has been sent to the Chief of State Police Intam Kuzis, and the police can start to work and make sure that this system's rule of law is in place. And in this case, I think we don't have to drive the wheel in front of the horse. After all, there are law enforcement agencies dealing with this. The Commission rejected this request by a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U80	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U81	Hello, colleagues! This request concerns one specific aspect of the OIC Aperture. Why this aspect of the OIC sphere is important and why indeed this is obviously one of the elements of the OIC sphere, I will prove this to you right away. There is no need to go into particular depths and not to have special competences. This can be seen. In particular, it is about government action within the framework of the so-called 'OIC moratorium'. What is this 'OIC moratorium'? Let me tell you to understand. In 2011, the Ministry of Economics took the initiative that the burden of OICs should be limited in some way, that the issue of these permits should be stopped. And in May 2011 it was decided that in the future these tenders... In particular, earlier invitations to tender were launched and the operators were able to obtain OIC’s authorisations under the tender procedure. It was banned. However, what we see during the period until 28 August 2012 when the next amendments were adopted - we are actually seeing that the real Ministry of Economics has been exactly the opposite. It is during this period that the licences have been issued most rapidly. And I'll show you one timetable right away so that you can understand what this is about, and it will become clear immediately what has actually happened within the framework of this 'OIC moratorium'. ( Shows the graph.) You see here two curves that go through the entire graphics - blue and brown. Blue - these are permits issued, brown - are those authorisations which are still valid. Next you see two vertical curves - green and pink. Green: This is the time when the moratorium began or was announced. ( Milestones.) Pink - that is when the next amendments were adopted. And, look at that, the fastest increase in permits is at the very time when the government was intensively telling how it was fighting against the limitation of the OIC! In fact, at that time, the Ministry of Economics issued the most rapid permits! So this is the period from the green curve to the pink curve. More than 300 licences were issued at this time. When we were told, “Look! We’re limiting!” - That's the same time... This is precisely the period during which the Ministry of Economics carried out a service test, the results of which have disappeared or, after the latest version, have not been at all. Go on. This is... But the audit has remained... An independent audit was carried out and this audit was specifically for this period, and there are specific... I'm gonna... It says that when adopting these OIC decisions, the Ministry of Economics has not applied the legal principles in the justification of its decisions, violated the procedure laid down in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, failed to comply with the delegation of laws and so on. All other service verification documents for this period have now disappeared for good. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolish's intermediate calls.) What is amusing? We asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs to assess the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs for all and specific officials who would be responsible for all of this. What the Ministry of Economics told us was that it was going to carry out this assessment and would be a new audit. What is amusing? This new audit... if we get acquainted with its rules, we see that this will not be done for this period, but from 28 August 2012. So, colleagues, the audit will be carried out from this red line away. ( Shows the graph.) That's like when this deadline expired. The Ministry of Economics is trying to state with full seriousness that the new audit, which will be a completely different period, namely from 28 August 2012, will be an audit that will draw conclusions on how the Ministry of Economics has taken its decisions from 2011... and since 2009. I have no doubt that the Ministry of Economics will be able to draw the right conclusions on the basis of the results of this audit. Go on. During this period, the Ministry of Economics revealed very interesting facts that it has really made proposals to limit the issue of permits, but it has already been the State Chancellery, which has opposed all of this and has not allowed it to continue to drive it forward. It was both the Ministry of Agriculture and the VARAM, who said at that time that we should not do so, because we would offend the legitimate expectations of the economic operators who want to obtain these permits, but now they cannot get them. CONNECTION, it was your government! Do you not find it strange that the Minister for Economics is currently unable to give meaningful answers to these questions and is trying to bend in every possible way, and has still not assessed this responsibility? To understand what this is about. If these all the permits still in force... Of these 300 permits 74 are still valid! If implemented, this would create an additional burden for OIC of 100 million each year. But the Ministry of Economics still doesn't know what happened there, and says that it has done everything possible, and everything is fine. Colleagues! And that's what you call care for society?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I call for my request to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U82	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? So it's not. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Sergeja Mirska, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Klementyeva, Jeļena Lazareva, Jānis Urbanoviča, Zenta Tretjaka, Igora Zuvėva and Sergeja Potakin's request to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Asheraden "For the answers given to the Member's request on question No. 371/J12 and the compliance of the Ministry's actions with the requirements and public interests within the framework of the "OIK moratorium" established by the Government"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 46, for - 4. The request is rejected. On the agenda - Members Ivars Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Zenta Tretika, Jānis Adamsonas, Igora Zuveva, Vladimira Nikonova, Borisa Cileviča, Sergeja Potapkina and Andra Morozov's request to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Asheraden, in connection with the Ministry of Economics' "deep audits to be carried out" in relation to the Ministry of Economics' actions with 'OIC permits' and EM' to name the responsible officials who did not exercise adequate control of the start-up of 'OIC stations'. The request on behalf of the Commission is made by Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U83	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! See second request - No. 32. apologies, No 31. Let me begin by saying that the issue is a thorough audit of the Ministry of Economic Affairs' actions with the permission of the compulsory procurement component and the Ministry of Economics' avoidance of the designation of responsible officials. In the Panel, we heard replies from the Minister for Economic Affairs and ministerial officials about all officials. This conversation and discussion lasted and came to such a simple exchange of words when Mr. Zarins asked to name the persons on the website of the Ministry of Economics, and the website was opened, and these officials were named. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš intermediates.) But it's not a question. In particular, at the meeting on 8 March here, the Minister for Economic Affairs made clear his wish to eliminate the OIC as a very unfair payment for citizens and businesses. In this case, we can look at two options: either gradually pay each of its pockets and thus extend this payment in the long term, or suddenly we can close everything without... But at the same time... When it comes to compensation for electricity producers, we will have to pay them. And they will have to be paid from the state budget. We will therefore have to decide in the Saeima, and the question will be who is the good, who is the bad. Then, of course, it will be necessary to position what we are then - we are the greenest country in Europe. So these are the questions we will all have to answer here in the Saeima. And as the Saeima decides, it will. The request commission did not support this request by the majority and I call on you not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U84	Thank you. Mr. Zarins, would you have enough nine minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Yes, it will be enough!” ) Open a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U85	Colleagues! This is a request for one of the heroic stories the Ministry of Economics tells the public. The Ministry has three main characters, with which the Ministry now shows that it is allegedly fighting the burden of OICs. But in fact, the Ministry is trying to cover it. And this will be one of the obvious examples. The first story is about how they check 39 stations for five months and can still not tell which one exists. The second hero's story is the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which have been driven by urgency since the new year and which will help to simply regularise all the messes. And the third hero story is about these audits. As I have already shown you, in the previous timetable that I have taken, the Ministry of Economics promises that an audit will be carried out to assess the merits of its decisions. As I have shown you, this time period... It is precisely the period during which the full moratorium of the OIC entered into force and these decisions were no longer taken. Question: "What are we going to do to assess the Ministry of Economics?" What is amusing? The Ministry of Economy itself... So there is another audit about which I have already told you, the results of which clearly show what the Ministry of Economics has done - that the Ministry of Economics has not correctly applied the legal principles when making these decisions, violated the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers, failed to comply with the delegation of laws and regulations, and so on. What does the Ministry of Economics say? The Ministry of Economics agrees that the audit report contains conclusions that in certain cases decisions have been incomplete, but also agrees with the auditor’s conclusion that the number of decisions audited is too small to draw conclusions on the whole decision-making and monitoring process as a whole. And what does the Ministry of Economics do? It says, “That’s why we published a new audit!” And it does not define this new audit as a period which, as it itself admits, should be more carefully assessed, but as a period during which this audit has already ended. For a completely different period! The Ministry of Economics wants to present all of this in full seriousness as an assessment of its decisions. It's completely absurd! Go on. How has this audit been carried out? You have already seen TV3 in the “No-Personal” show, as it has finished, which has won the competition for this audit. And those were our questions before the story appeared at all. A few weeks earlier, when reading the statute, it was obvious that the statute was created so that those who need to win would win the competition and obtain the necessary audit conclusions. This is what we can see: the company that won the decision itself... in order to obtain these decisions from the Ministry of Economics. And the statute was written very “successful”. We were concerned at once, first of all, that there was no requirement for conflict of interest in this provision, there was no requirement for competence. It was important that this auditor, who will audit it... that he doesn't have to understand anything from energy. Let him be just one who can make audits. But in order to be able to assess these decisions, it is essentially energy competence that matters! It is important that these decisions are assessed not as it is recorded in the audit of the Ministry of Economics (that it is assessed only on the basis of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers), but on the basis of the entire regulatory environment, on the energy, policy objectives that are included... which delegated these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. However, all this is “cut off”. And so if these decisions are to be assessed in this way, there can be any conclusions that the Ministry of Economics needs. The other thing. This was about conflict of interest. The Ministry of Economics... And, as we saw, a businessman, who is in a clear conflict of interest, really won, so he himself has taken part in obtaining these decisions from the Ministry of Economics. To what the Ministry of Economics said: “You know it doesn’t matter! When he signs that paper, we will ask him to show that he will appreciate the decisions he has not taken.” The Kniff in this audit is that of all the decisions to be audited, the Ministry of Economics will say that 10 percent must be taken. This means if you have taken part in 90 per cent decision-making and have been interested in them, but do not choose them, but choose separate 10 per cent, it means you have no conflict of interest. It's completely absurd! Next, where was the falsification and what can be seen about this audit. We're talking about this period... that decisions will be assessed for the period during which the full moratorium on OIC entered into force, when these decisions could no longer be taken at all. We asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs how many decisions have been taken. The Ministry of Economy claimed that there were more than 860. When they replied, we asked for these figures. It turned out that there were no more than 100 decisions. We asked the Ministry of Economics: “Please tell me how many of these decisions apply... how many OIC permits have been accepted?’ The Ministry of Economy refused to provide this information. Why should it be hidden? The Ministry replied that it could not be said how many such decisions had been made. Then there is the question: how will you ensure that these decisions are selected? Because you will have to ensure the selection of these decisions. Only 10 percent of all decisions will be assessed. What the Ministry of Economics, when asked if the proportionality of decisions would be respected, namely, by type of decision - both on cancellation, on grant and on authorisation - said: "Yes, we will respect proportionality." But how will you notice if you cannot name the number of decisions that have been made in each particular way? Go on. The question was also how the decisions would be selected. The Ministry of Economy hid it again. We asked to name the specific persons who would be responsible for this. We are not interested in what is written on the Ministry of Economics website, because you can write anything on the website. We are interested in the fact that the Ministry of Parliaments in the verbatim report specifically confirms who are those who will assume responsibility for this audit, who will determine how a harmonised methodology for selecting this decision will be developed. Go on. How will these decisions be selected? Unfortunately, we found out that, when the previous audit was carried out, the officials of the Ministry of Economics manipulated and did not give them the necessary decisions and tried to audit the decisions chosen by the officials of the Ministry of Economics themselves, which were later subject to disciplinary proceedings against the State Secretary Juris Pūci. When the Ministry of Economics pointed out all of this, its officials were just outrageous and said: “What you are wearing, we will do everything we need.” Once, you've done what you need. Just a question, you need someone? Another interesting fact. If the previous audit cost 5000 lats (and it was unfavourable to the Ministry of Economics), then this audit, which is now being prepared and which will assess the validity of the decisions of the Ministry of Economics for the period in which it did not take these decisions, the Ministry of Economics pledged 75 thousand euros plus VAT, that is, 10 times more to obtain a new audit (as I understand it, favourable to the Ministry of Economics). Colleagues, it is obvious that this is one of the elements of this scene and one of these “heroic works” that the Ministry of Economics tells the public how serious it will be, but in fact, all possible ways will try to cover up their omissions, their own irregularities. I call for support for this request and call on journalists to follow up on what will happen to these audits. Another phenomenal audit is already under preparation - about 400 thousand, which will evaluate the whole system. And it is obvious that it is being done to be able to cover up so that the Ministry of Economics can continue to tell a beautiful story about how it will fight this OIC sphere, but in fact it will continue to cover it. The Ministry's aim is to bring it back to the elections, and then it will be able to do it again as it is necessary for sponsors. I call for this proposal to be supported and for it to be followed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U86	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Zenta Tretika, Jānis Adamsonas, Igora Zuveva, Vladimira Nikonova, Borisa Cileviča, Sergeja Potapkina and Andra Morozova's request to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Asheraden, regarding the Ministry of Economics' "deep audits to be carried out" in relation to the Ministry of Economics' actions with "OIC permissions" and EM's avoidance names of officials responsible for not having implemented proper control of the start-up of "OIC stations"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 50, for - 4. The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U87	Dear colleagues, Ivars Brībers, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Artis Gustovskis, Rihards Kols, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Aivars Meija, Romanas Mežeckis, Sergejs Mirskis, Valdis Skujiņš, Mārtiņš Šics, Silvija Šimfas, Jānis Urbanovičs and Igor Ząjevs have not registered at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U88	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U89	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - request from Members Ivara Zarina, Andra Morozova, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Mirska, Vladimira Nikonova, Igora Zujeva and Vital Orlov to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Asheraden regarding the verification of subsidised power plants implemented by the Ministry of Economics, their objectivity and their relevance to public interests. The request on behalf of the Commission is made by Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U90	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Working on this request (32/P12), we examined in the Panel the replies of the Minister for Economic Affairs who had arrived about the operation of these power plants, which have not yet been completed. Consequently, there was a closed section. There was a closed section of the meeting and it was also open. And because some information has not yet been obtained and the verification by the Ministry of Economics has not yet been completed... Once the test is over, we will also be able to obtain this information, and the Minister for Economic Affairs and the officials concerned have assured us that this will happen. Colleagues from the respected opposition claimed that they had not received a reply in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law, but the Minister of Economics at the meeting confirmed that the information had been sent to the Saeima Registry in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law. And later, looking for information about who is right, we learned that Mr. Elksniņš himself had not come to the Saeima on 22 February. Since in the present case a majority of the Request Commission decided not to support this request. And I invite you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U91	Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Neimins!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U92	I want to ask Members for registration. I don't think there are so many people here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U93	Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! A total of 58 members have registered. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “We are a hundred!” ) We can continue the Saeima sitting. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U94	Dear colleagues, The nature of this demand is very similar in the past, and it is as follows. It has already been almost half a year since the Ministry of Economics started its inspections, and within half a year there is still no clarity as to which stations, cogeneration stations, operate, operate or operate. I don't know if it takes half a year or another year to find out? Although, I think, this is already very simple. Second. At the beginning of this year - in January - the Minister for Economics declared that seven stations were working normally. Members who signed the request wanted to know what the dossier was on the basis of which it was decided that these stations were actually working normally and effectively. It appeared that the Ministry of Economic Affairs was not prepared to submit the relevant documents due to the fact that the verification was still ongoing. That is the essence of the demand, and I call for support to be given to this demand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U95	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U96	Hello, fellow Members, again! Thus, demand or interpelling is a question-related institution, which also provides for the acquisition of information from government and is directly related to distrust... In particular, it provides for an appeal to the government to provide explanations on a specific issue or on the external and internal policies of the government as a whole. In particular, I can say at the moment that I really watched with some admiration Ivars Zarins' fight against the OIC system. What he has achieved in this regard... he has achieved a fantastic statistical leap overall compared to other Saeima. For example, 33 requests and 415 questions have been submitted to this Saeima. Ten requests and 198 questions were submitted to the previous Saeima. I would like to say that, in fact, Mr Zarins has achieved the fact that Mr Brigmanis is not going to report any more. In his place, Wyko Spolitis, who came to Augustus at one time, looked at him in his face with such confidence and asked, “Are you okay?” He said, “OK!” Because in this case what you have to do is do what is done to Spolitis... Undoubtedly, these are the problems of Unity, which at the time were linked to both Artis Kamparas and the Parties, the developers of Pavilutas and Pucis. And, of course, there is a need to crush one’s own people. There's nothing to lose from either the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application, or elsewhere. I think he can come to report. But, colleagues, overall, that story looks like it looks like it is. In order to preserve the stability of the government, Asheraden will not be broken, and the government, clearly, needs to be held to the elections from the point of view of the coalition. So that, Ivar Zarin, throws peace, settles with this situation - that the irregularities continue to flourish and gold under the auspices of the Ministry of Economics. That's what I'd like to say, I'd call you to stay calm. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Support! Support!” ) Thank you, colleagues. We support demand.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U97	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Andra Morozova, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Mirska, Vladimira Nikonova, Igora Zujeva and Vital Orlova's request to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Asheradens "On verification of subsidised electricity power plants implemented by the Ministry of Economics, their objectivity and their relevance to public interests"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 39, for - 4. The request is rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the law on social apartments and social housing”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U98	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The commission developed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Apartments and Social Housing” in cooperation with the ministries involved – both with the employees of the Ministry of Welfare and the Department of Trade Support – and the aim of these amendments is to extend the definition of social housing with the housing houses owned by the association and foundations, thus the houses owned by disabled persons’ associations. Granting the funding of a public person for the maintenance of such residential houses will not qualify as commercial support, as the associations and foundations established in the draft law which rent apartments in their own social housing, adapted to the needs of persons with disabilities, as well as provide these persons with other services, will in future perform the functions delegated to them and will not carry out economic activities which would create an economic advantage or affect competition and trade in the internal market of the European Union. So the essence is that it would allow energy efficiency projects to be carried out in this type of home. To date, this has not been possible both due to a lack of State aid and for a number of other reasons. Now the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, in cooperation with VARAM, plans not only to adopt this law that it is permitted, but also... We hope that a special support programme will be set up, primarily for the homes of deaf and blind associations, because there are no other similar types of houses. This would certainly make it possible to improve the living conditions of these people and to support and promote energy efficiency in the country as a whole. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U99	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on social apartments and social housing”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U100	On behalf of the Commission, please determine 6 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U101	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 6, this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U103	On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Promotion and Protection of Mutual Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U104	Hello, honourable Members! The Foreign Commission approved the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Promotion and Protection of Mutual Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement”. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U105	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Promotion and Protection of Mutual Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U106	The Foreign Commission approved the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement”. I ask Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U107	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment and Denunciation of the Agreement” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement on Cooperation in Disaster Prevention, Preparedness and Response between the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U108	The Foreign Commission supported the draft law “On the Agreement on Cooperation in Disaster Prevention, Preparedness and Response between the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania”. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on the second, final reading of the agreement on cooperation in disaster prevention, preparedness and response between the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U110	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”. Two proposals have been tabled for the third reading. 1. is a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Well, of course, supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U112	2. There is also a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U114	Request to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U115	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the Law on General Education, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U116	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, The draft laws "Amendments to the General Education Act" and "Amendments to the Education Law" are a single package, so I will comment on the two draft laws prepared for the third reading. A wide-ranging debate took place in the Commission and it was positive that the Minister of Education and Science was also present at all the meetings of the Commission dealing with draft laws. The substance of the proposals. If it can be divided, the first group of MEPs' proposals actually rejected or encouraged to postpone the change in the proportion of primary school offered by the Ministry of Education and Science and supported by the Saeima at second reading. These proposals were not supported by the Commission. The second group of proposals covered training in private education institutions. I would like to remind you that primary education is mandatory in Latvia, so education in private institutions must meet standards set by the state. The Panel did not support these proposals either. Third group of proposals... more precisely, the proposal. The proposal to acquire education in the Latgalian language in private schools was rejected. I would remind Members that Latgalian is a form of Latvian in accordance with law. Latgale can already be included in educational programmes at both public and private institutions. Standards of study subjects in Latgale language and Latgale language have also been developed. The fourth group of proposals was on the establishment of the composition of the Consultative Council on minority education in the law. The Commission... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Lazareva: “We see another law!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U117	Dear colleagues, The rapporteur reported on the two draft laws together, as she said from the parliamentary tribunal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U118	It was about the whole... Then there will be for each.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U119	I invite you to follow the Saeima sitting closely. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U120	There will be opportunities. The fourth group of proposals was on the establishment of the composition of the Consultative Council on minority education in the law. This was not supported by the Commission. The fifth group of proposals received support from Members. In this group there were several proposals from Minister Šadurskis that improve the social guarantees of teachers. And as the sixth group, I want to make a distinction between proposals where... the proposal of Mr Morozov, who was the main beneficiary of his support, on the evaluation of the education reform every three years. And now let us move on to the concrete proposals put forward in the draft law on Amendments to the General Education Act. 1. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U121	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U122	Madam President, Members! I want to read to you (The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) from the Supreme Council of Latvia and the Government Rapporteur No.51, dated 20 December 1990, the resolution on national equality. ‘ We, members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Latvia, the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia and the Supreme Council of the Republic of Lithuania, at our joint meeting confirm our determination to ensure that the rights of all people living in Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania are respected, regardless of their nationality, their mother tongue, political and religious beliefs, in accordance with international legal instruments, as well as the laws and laws of our countries of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We confirm our constant efforts to improve our national structures so that they guarantee the protection of the rights of all national communities living in these countries and promote respect for the culture and customs of people of different nationalities. We call on all national communities to actively promote the creation of new democratic institutes that become the basis of overall prosperity and progress in the independent Baltic States." The Chairs of the joint meeting: from the Republic of Latvia - A.Gorbunov, President of the Supreme Council, from the Republic of Estonia - A.Rītels, President of the Supreme Council, from the Republic of Lithuania - V.Landsberģis, President of the Supreme Council. In Vilnius on 1 December 1990. The original of the resolution was written and signed in Russian, with all signatures, because it was a period of Awakening, when the people of all three republics were together and fought for one goal: independence of their countries. I call on you not to support the draft law on amendments to the General Education Act or the draft law on amendments to the Education Law at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U123	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U124	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! I thank Mr. Klementyeva for his valuable quote because, as the teacher Jānis Greste said: “Whoever explores the past, he blesses the future.” A history tour is very necessary and correct. Bearing in mind what the Presidents of our three Supreme Councils have signed, I am very pleased that, in many years' time, we are going on exactly this path - consistently and very successfully. I hope that today, too, this will appear in the votes of the Saeima. But now specifically on this proposal. In the proposal by Member Lazareva... The parliamentary roll does not allow identical proposals to be made to those who have been rejected at previous reading, and the formal parliamentary roll has not been violated here. But if we look at the wording that was conceptually supported by Members at first reading, and those proposals that were supported or rejected at second reading, already on the specific wording, it is quite clear that, in the version that was supported at second reading, Members' views are in line with the vision presented by the government, namely that there are no secondary education programmes for minorities, all general education subjects are presented in the state language at secondary school, and, on request and on request, with those young people whose language is different from the state language, have the opportunity to learn their own language, culture, literature, ethnic characteristics or integration in Latvian society. Unfortunately, Mrs Lazareva's proposal, which goes back to minority education programmes in high school, has, in fact, already been rejected in the second reading, and I call on Members not to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U125	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U126	There's nothing to say. The Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U127	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 17, no, 56, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U128	2. - Member Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U129	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U130	President, Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, The government proposes to put an end to the minority education programme, as the Minister recently specified. In secondary education, the institution will have the right to include in the general programme subjects in the language of the minority, as well as subjects related to the identity and integration of minorities in society. The fact that in high school there will remain an opportunity to learn the language of minorities was also promised by the Minister, addressing various audiences. This opportunity will or will not be realised, as the Minister did not take care of it, because it was well understood that the rights could, but could not be, implemented. In my proposal, I propose that the following guarantee be laid down in law: if not less than 10 learners wish, the school should include in the curriculum the subject of training in minority language and the content of training relating to minority identity and integration in Latvian society. If 10 students are absent, but a smaller number of students apply, this will not limit the school’s ability to include the subject in the minority language in the programme, as there is still an opportunity to choose minority language as the second foreign language. However, only using a foreign language niche would mean narrowing down opportunities. It was not clear to the President of the Commission at the meeting of the Commission what other class students who did not apply to learn minority language would do. And the answer here is simple: no one will be forced, but no one will be banned either. Nothing new with my proposal I have not invented. This provision is already in force in Estonia and is included in the primary school and gymnasium law. It is valid, the rights of children belonging to minorities are not confused and guaranteed. I propose to instruct the educational institution on the obligation to include the subject of instruction in the programme in the native language of the minority and the content of training relating to the identity and integration of minorities in Latvian society if it is not less than 10 students. I call for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U131	Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U132	Hello, colleagues! I do not know why SAVE Members have tried to submit a proposal that may affect the basic objectives of the General Education Act and the Education Act. If we accept Mr Pimenova's proposal, this means that there is no point in this law at all. Why? That's why... Colleagues, what does the state mean? Answer: The state is the land, the people of Latvia, who also belong to minorities, and the Latvian language as a state language. Three things - they make up the country. If we are talking about today, I think today is a very, very historic day, a great day in the history of the Latvian people, because we will finally eliminate the consequences of occupation by adopting this law and the next one. ( Milestones.) Today we will put that point in order to say that we want a united society. We want education to be only in Latvian, we want all Latvian people to live under one flag - the flag of Latvia! Why... I do not understand why such proposals are being made again. A society can only unite if we all learn one language – Latvian. I believe that today is a holiday. Why? Because it will strengthen Latvia's independence, which was voted for on 4 May 1990. Today's vote is just as important as that of 4 May 1990. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported and for both the draft law on amendments to the General Education Act and the draft law on amendments to the Education Act to be supported. Thank you. We love our country, and our country's language is only Latvian. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U133	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U134	I thank Hosam for this political education, for this lecture. I would like to remind you that the state of Latvia without strengthening the state language of Latvia, without strengthening the understanding of statehood in society has other priorities, and one of these priorities is ensuring the identity of minorities - preservation and development. This is also indicated by Article 114 of the Satversme. And the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe made it quite clear in its recommendations on minority education that the education of minority children in the family language is one of the prerequisites for ensuring identity. I want to remind Hosam of this, I want to remind other colleagues as well. I understood it well, by the way, the founders of the Latvian People's Front; it was well understood by the Estonian legislators, who, however, incorporated it into the Estonian law, primary school and gymnasium law, the norm that I proposed to transpose into our legislation. That is the basis. There is nothing to do with weakening the position of Latvian. Both priorities can be successfully implemented at the same time. There is no contradiction here. I am now speaking not only to Members, but to everyone who hears us. The future of minorities also largely determines the stability of Latvia's state and the provision and strengthening of Latvianism in Latvia. Let us remember that! Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U135	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U136	I think that if in this third reading platform we have finally reached the final line and talk about Latvian as the only country language in Latvia, then I think it's very nice that people with an accent speak about this language. I have to listen very much, I have to understand what Mr. Klementyev is trying to say. Really. I'm trying to listen, and I don't understand half. But you try. That's good. Hosam, all the respect for you that you can speak and speak in Latvian. And thank you for speaking the language of the country. Today is really like a holiday, and from today we will end any manipulation of several languages in Latvia. An example of a respectable attitude! Five million Russians live in Germany. No one goes to Russian to learn. They learn German. We will also be in our country - Latvia. One state language in all schools, secondary schools, primary schools and kindergartens. Please do not support, today, any proposal that comes from A COHESION. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U137	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U138	As Mr Pimenova rightly pointed out, the second paragraph of Article 43 sets out the possibilities for education institutions to teach both their mother tongue and subjects related to the identity of minorities. The Commission has not supported this proposal. Please don't support!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U139	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 17, 58, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U140	3. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U141	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 17, against - 59, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U142	All the proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law on Amendments to the General Education Act at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U143	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on General Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 16, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, National associations “All for Latvia!” - on behalf of the Group on ‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK’, Member Raivis Dzintars. Report on the motives for voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U144	Better late than never! That is probably the most accurate comment that can be made on the Saeima's vote today. The coincidence in many circumstances has made these votes a reality. However, the circumstances would not appear in the right order if countless people - publicly active citizens, journalists, opinion leaders - did not hold the idea of moving schools to public language for years. The vote gives a sense of satisfaction to many who, because of their convictions, are called radicals and enemies of the nations. Today, the idea of a prohibited underground dream has become a widely accepted and recognised reality. Also in the political line. The aim of Latvian Latvia is not and cannot be radicalism or hatred of the people. Latvian language is not only Latvian popular language. It is Latvian language. The common language of all its people. And language is not just a means of communication. It is a dividing line between one's own and another. The school must be a place where, step by step, everyone becomes their own, part of Latvia, rather than sticking to the fading ghosts of the past. Care for the preservation of minority language and culture is understandable and respected. No one can take away the language or culture of the family who wants to preserve and care for it. The country must welcome and support this choice. But we must also be able to draw a line where this support is already at the expense of the State. Today, the legislator has expressed his will to pull this border off. Is the threshold sufficient? No, no. A common language will be entirely only for high school-age children. For the rest, there is still multilingualism, where real compliance with proportions in life is very difficult to test. We need to be open now: the new system is a transition, not a destination. This is the maximum that politicians could agree on today in these circumstances. Thank you to everyone - irrespective of political and any other kind of belonging - who made this decision possible. But already today the view should focus on further challenges, the great goal to be expressed in two words: Latvian Latvia. ( VL-TB/LNNK Rounds.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U145	Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U146	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Education Act’. 1. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U147	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U148	The version adopted at second reading in Article 9.1 is as follows: ‘In private education, general education and vocational education in primary and secondary education shall be obtained in the state language’. With my proposal, I propose to supplement it with the languages of the national minorities of Latvia. National minorities in Latvia were named after the ratification of the General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. It should also be noted that Article 13(1) of the Convention states: “The Parties undertake, within the framework of their education systems, to recognise that persons belonging to national minorities are entitled to establish and run private education and training institutions.” By the way, the National Association has always spoken about this in public minority schools. I would like to draw attention to the fact that private education institutions are part of the education system. And from a legal point of view, the state has no monopoly on the education system and anyone has the right to set up private schools. The Constitutional Court held that the economic interests of a person related to the pursuit of commercial activities fall within the scope of the first sentence of Article 105 of the Satversme: “Everyone has the right to property.” For private education institutions, this should be taken into account when introducing restrictions. It will therefore be necessary to examine whether the limitation of the right to property is proportionate. The language rules will inevitably affect demand, with negative consequences for the interests of businessmen, founders of private schools. I believe that the main task of private education institutions is to meet the national standard of education and to pass the central examinations. I think that the changes adopted at second reading may give rise to a risk of litigation. It is not clear to me which officials will be responsible for the financial consequences.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U149	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U150	Honourable Members! I completely agree with Hosam Abu Mary that today is a holiday. And on the holiday day there's also a little fun. This is a very interesting proposal that Mrs Lazareva has tabled. I will allow you to read it: “In private education, general education and vocational education at primary and secondary level is obtained in the state language as well as in minority languages – Russian, Belarusian, Polish, Lithuanian, Estonian, German and Jewish.” Mrs. Lazareva has not noticed the German exit in 1939. It was a long time ago, it can be forgotten, because we do not have minority programmes in German at the moment. What, though, is very interesting? Is it related to the occupation of Crimea and to Russia's aggression in Eastern Ukraine that Ukrainian (we have Ukrainian secondary school) has been excluded from the minority list? So, I think that's what it's like, fun, right? ( Interface: “It’s not! ” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U151	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U152	Dear President, Honourable Members! Mrs. Lazareva read the first paragraph of Article 13, but forgot to read the second paragraph and the 14th paragraph. The second paragraph of Article 13 is worded as follows: ‘The enjoyment of this right shall not give rise to any financial obligation for the Parties.’ Go on. Rule 14. I am referring to the General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. Article 14: “The Parties undertake to recognise that any person belonging to a national minority is entitled to learn the language of his minority.” Do you really think, Mrs. Lazareva, that, for six years, from grade 1 to class 6, learning 50 percent of the subject in your mother tongue, children will still not learn their mother tongue? Do you really value minorities in Latvia so low? I think children are already learning this language in class 1. And the last thing Mrs. Lazareva didn't read. I would remind everyone once again that paragraph 2 of this Article of this Convention is being implemented without prejudice to the acquisition of official language or to the acquisition of education in that language. This does not mean “part of education”. So all education is obtained in the state language. And this law, on which I am calling for a vote, guarantees the right to learn their minority language fully from grades 1 to 6 and then to secondary school. I call for Mrs Lazareva's proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U153	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U154	The Member's proposal runs counter to what was supported in the wording of the second reading. Please do not support on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U155	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 17, no, 56, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U156	2. - a proposal from Members Tutin and Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U157	Let us start a debate. The name of Member John Tutin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U158	Hello! I will speak pure Latvian to understand me also by residents in Kurzeme, Vidzeme, Zemgale and Riga. As Ms Laimdotas said earlier, the Latgalian language has already been named in the law, and Section 3 Section Four of the State Language Law states: “The state ensures the preservation, protection and development of the Latgalian language as a form of historical Latvian language.” Section 14 of this Law provides: “The right to education in the state language shall be guaranteed in the Republic of Latvia.” So also in Latgale. The use of the state language in education is governed by the laws governing education, so this proposal, too, was made directly by the Education Law. At this stage, when the Ministry of Education and Science prepares very extensive changes in the education system, I think it is time to focus on the preservation and development of the Latvian language, that is, the Latgalian language. The proposal in the Education Act concerns general and vocational primary and secondary education in private institutions. This is a small drop of language development, but yet. If parents wanted their children to be able to use the Latgalian language correctly and accurately in private education institutions, they would have the opportunity to do so. As I said, at least in private schools. In view of the fact that the Ministry will have a lot to do for the re-training of educators, including in the framework of this joint reform, there is enough time to create a Latgalian language training programme and prepare possible educators. Colleagues! However, I invite you to support this proposal in order to comply with the norms of the State Language Law regarding the Latgalian language - a historical form of Latvian language - and to strengthen its development in the Education Law. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U159	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U160	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal only applies to private educational institutions. In fact, in fact, Mr Tutina calls for a certain narrowing of existing opportunities and an opportunity to learn the Latin only in private educational institutions. That is the first point that I cannot support. Next. According to the proposal, ‘... degrees of education shall be obtained in the state language as well as in the Latgalian language’. This wording in itself runs counter to the State Language Law, because the relevant paragraph of the State Language Law, which Mr Tutina has already quoted to you, indicates that the Latgalian language is part of the Latvian language or literary language, i.e. the state language. In this case, if you wanted to emphasise the right of the Latgalian language to be both in private education institutions and, as I have already mentioned, in all public institutions, it should be mentioned here: “... to acquire the state language, so also in the Latgalian or literary language.” By the way, it is precisely this issue that we are discussing at the moment in another Saeima Commission, where we talk about Public Media Law. Several Latgalian cultural societies call for a clear statement, in addition to clarifying that all public orders relating to the media environment... that wherever the state language is mentioned... as they say, with black on white, so that everyone is clear and that it is not clear, it should be recorded that Latgale Latvian or Latgale language should also be used in public media wherever the state language is allowed. Yes, one can discuss how well the State currently guarantees the right to receive education in the state language, therefore also in Latgale, but it is working on it. Personally, I would also like progress to be faster, but now at least in some schools individual teachers teach items in Latvian. I myself know at least one who, for example, told history in latgalian form. It's not a problem! Within the framework of the state language law, this is not an infringement - I emphasize once again. There is also a local lesson where teachers can and do use Latgale Latvian safely. More than that. As far as I know, now public organizations, societies are preparing an initiative for 27 April this year... By the way, that's the date that... Currently, a proposal has been submitted to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs that it could be celebrated as Latgale Day, because it is the anniversary of the historic Latgale Congress. So on April 27... Several societies, I accept, will come in the coming days with a call to teachers in all schools of Latvia, especially in Latgale schools, not to be bullied and to use the Latgalian language in communication with students, as well as to invite students to speak Latgalian at least one day a year - safe and proudly. There are no other options than this: the proposal in question must be rejected. ( The Minister for Education and Science, K. Šadurskis, reads.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U161	Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U162	This time I have to agree fully with Juris Viļums. The written Latvian language is a form of Latvian and undoubtedly enriches our Latvian language. Yeah, but the language form is as flat. And this is Latgale's richness, which, unfortunately, has been almost lost in other regions of Latvia, deducting a little more Kurzeme. It is a wealth that needs to be preserved. If Latgale schools should teach Latgale language on a compulsory basis, what form of speech should be given? I understand that Jānis Tutins would like a raisin. Or maybe I'll be a slave or someone else? Which one will remain? These are riches. I think no one opposes the development of the Latgalian language, but without denying the sheets, which really is the beauty of our language. Here, several talked about tours in history. As I have an article by historian Jānis Šiliņš about the Second Latgale Congress, not the First Congress, where he decided about the merger, but the Second. And there is quoted from Latgale press release, which wrote that “merging [with the rest of Latvia] will not end Latgale, but separation is true”. I think we need to think much more about what is enriching, but what is not. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U163	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U164	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U165	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - a proposal from Members Tutin and Lazareva! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 18, it's against - 55, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U166	Further 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U167	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U168	4. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U169	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U170	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U172	6. - a proposal from Members Tutin and Lazareva. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U173	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - a proposal from Members Tutin and Lazareva! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 18, it's against - 55, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U174	7. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U175	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U176	Colleagues, this draft law sets out strict requirements for minority languages, but at the same time gives the green light to all the official languages of the European Union. Then why mislead the public that the purpose of the bill is to strengthen the Latvian language? It follows that the national language proportions do not apply to educational institutions implementing general education programmes with integrated learning content and foreign language learning, in order to ensure language learning in other Member States of the European Union, subject to the national standard of education. This consideration applies to both public and private education institutions. With this in mind, it will be possible to implement an educational programme with integrated learning content and foreign language learning, for example, in Polish and Lithuanian, but it will not be possible in Russian and Belarusian. But Article 91 of the Satversme prohibits discrimination. In particular, this article states: “All people in Latvia are equal before the law and the court. Human rights shall be exercised without discrimination." This prohibition also applies to situations where the treatment of different minorities is different. My proposal is to add a new point 2.3 to this article: "... educational institutions implementing general education programmes with integrated learning content and minority language in order to ensure the language learning of the historically resident community in Latvia, in accordance with the national standard of education." The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “So don’t support? What to do?” ) ( Dep. A.Kamiņš: “So don’t support? What to do?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U177	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U178	On behalf of the Commission, please do not support proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U179	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 17, no one for - 57, no one for - 57. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U180	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. Partly supported and included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U181	Let us start a debate. The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U182	Honourable Members! I will talk about proposals 8, 9 and 10 together, as they are closely linked. In particular, at second reading, proposals were voted on on professional qualification examinations at the university and on the works necessary for obtaining a bachelor's, master's and doctor's degree. The basic idea is that if the programme is implemented in the official language of the European Union, the above mentioned works and examinations shall also be carried out in the language in which the programme is located. On the other hand, if the programme is in a language other than the official language of the European Union, then the works and examinations I mentioned are to be carried out in the official language. That provision, so to speak, is right in law and in substance. But there was some reflection, because the language of the country is not mentioned here. We are talking about the official languages of the European Union and, of course, Latvian is one of the languages of the European Union. So if the program is Latvian, then all these works are also to be done in Latvian. There was also some reflections on the uniform qualification examination of lawyers. It is clear that it is arranged in Latvian. However, we were a little involved in our work: we wanted to write this norm more clearly and intelligiblely, but it turned out to be legally wrong. My request to Members is therefore not to support the 8th proposal that I tabled, not to support the 9th proposal that I tabled and not to support the integrated proposal 10 of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, and to remain in the second reading, which legally and in substance is all right. And to be precise... I'm sorry. in order for you to respect precisely the conditions of the parliamentary roll, then proposals 8 and 9, which have been partly supported and incorporated, also require a vote, and I ask that all three proposals be rejected. Thank you. “ Thank you! ” ; “Do not confuse your head!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U183	Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U184	I just want to add that if we talk about strengthening the Latvian language, then I suggest that the Ministry may add this article next time, provided that at least the works of the bachelor, master and doctor should be translated into Latvian in order to really increase scientific literature and materials in Latvian.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U185	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission to proposal 8?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U186	The proposal was partly supported by the Commission, but the Minister asked for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U187	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Education and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - not, against - 39, refrain - 31. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U188	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Šadurska, has been partly supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U189	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Education and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - not, against - 47, abstain - 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U190	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U191	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal submitted by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 49, for - 20. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U192	11. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U193	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 18, it's against - 55, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U194	12. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U195	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U196	With this proposal, I propose the introduction of the concept of a legislative quality monitoring system for education and entrusting this competence to the Ministry of Education and Science. The right to education included in the first sentence of Article 112 of the Satversme requires that the quality control mechanism of the educational process should be objective, comprehensive, professional, regular, as well as based on scientific knowledge and methods. It is the responsibility of the State to provide information to the public, the learners and their parents about changes in the quality of education and the progress of the education process. In his opinion at the study “Bilingival Education in Latvia and Integration of Society” in 2014, Ombudsman Juris Jansons recalled this judgement and stressed that at present the control mechanism is mainly focused on obtaining quantitative rather than qualitative data. The collection and analysis of these data is insufficient. Previous data have not been sufficiently systematised and analysed. Moreover, since 1996/1997. the school year has not been the subject of systematic research into changes in the quality of education of minorities. As a result, any changes introduced in the education system may fall short of their goal and make the education process meaningless. In its website last year it is pointed out that one of the most important challenges for an objective and comparable assessment is the lack of a systemic approach, as there is no system of indicators for the quality of education at national level. All stakeholders in quality education – parents, management of educational institutions, state and local government institutions, teachers and educators – use the resources available to themselves, thus obtaining only a partial picture of the indicators characterising the performance of educational institutions and changes in the quality level of education. The requested higher education quality control mechanism was established by the Ministry only in 2017 in connection with the sub-programme “Developing an education quality monitoring system” of the Eurofunds learning programme. And the selection of projects started on 12 October 2017. Monitoring the quality of education is a tool for evaluating educational outcomes. It provides information and feedback to improve the operation and learning process of educational institutions, as well as information on the quality of education for parents and society as a whole. This system will collect and analyse statistical information, compare the results of educational studies, the results of central examinations, information and indicators relating to school accreditation and programme licensing, as well as the work of other educational institutions. A clear and understandable education quality assessment system is necessary so that every representative of society can objectively assess the quality of education in educational institutions in Latvia. In turn, education policy-makers would receive facts and arguments to be able to make decisions for further development of the education system. Effective evidence-based education policies are essential for a systematic and periodic assessment of educational attainment in the context of education quality indicators (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Time!” ), and learning achievements influence factors... That's it!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U197	Mrs. Lazareva! Your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U198	Can you still do that?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U199	Are Members... Is that so? ( The drug is getting more noise. Impressions: “Let’s talk!” “ No! No!” ) Please call us! Let us vote in favour of an additional time for bringing together the two times of debate! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's no quorum. ( Milestones.) Let's vote again! Please call me! Let us vote in favour of allowing Member Lazareva to combine the two times of the debate! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 35, against - 18, refraining from - 11. Please! Two minutes, extra time. ( Milestones.) Proposal 12 - Two minutes extra time. ( Interface: “Why three? ” - an error appeared on the monitor.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U200	Without an appropriate quality control mechanism, no reform of the education system can be implemented. It is unacceptable that the Ministry of Education and Science took various sociological studies as the basis for the reform, including a “SKDS” survey on self-assessment of the state language knowledge, in which only 96 people participated – young people aged 18-24. And with this proposal, I offer this function to the public service of quality education.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U201	I closed the debate. Is Mrs Straujuma to be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U202	The majority of Commission Members considered that the delegation already in its current version to the State Education Quality Service was sufficient to carry out its work. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U203	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -17, against -53, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U204	13. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U205	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva. ( The utterances are: “Jelena! You don’t!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U206	At second reading, I already expressed my doubts about the conceptual support for the draft law by the ISM Consultative Council on Minorities in Education. And with this proposal, I propose that the composition of this board be revised at all, that groups be enlarged and that they be involved in the discussion of education issues. I propose to supplement Section 21 of the Law on Public Participation in Education with a new fifth paragraph in the following wording: “The Cabinet approves the Regulations of the Consultative Council on Minorities Education. The Cabinet of Ministers shall approve the composition of the Advisory Council on the basis of applications from the Minister of Education and public organizations. The Advisory Council shall comprise 40 per cent of the members of the Board from state and municipal institutions, 30 per cent of the association representing the interests of the groups concerned (parents, minority societies, entrepreneurs) and 30 per cent of the representatives of the education sector (educators' associations, experts, university representatives, researchers, etc.).).’ Currently, the Board consists mainly of professionals, because the Board consists of directors of schools, who are legally subordinate to the municipality, but in fact, they have subordination relations with the Ministry, because the Ministry's State Service for Quality of Education controls, accreditations and applies penalties to schools. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U207	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U208	The majority of Members of the Commission considered the composition of the Advisory Board to be inappropriate by law. At the moment, this is determined by the Minister for two years. Before the Saeima meeting, I looked at the composition there. All representatives of minority schools, and I think... in the opinion of the Advisory Board, the composition of the Advisory Committee is balanced. Please do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U209	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -17, against -53, refrains - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U210	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U211	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U212	Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, My proposal is about strengthening the norm in the law, which will determine the competence of the Consultative Council on Minorities in Education already set up under the Ministry of Education and Science. This is not directly related to the Latvianisation of minority education. The Council was established in 2001 if my memory does not hesitate. I myself represent a public organization that I still run. So it is the Latvian Association of Russian Language School Support (?????), so I also have my own experience, and I know this subject. And the experience is as follows: There are two groups of consultative councils: expert councils and representative councils. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The task of the Board of Experts shall be to identify the views of professionals on the actions and intentions of the institution or ministry. This board is selected selectively from among the range of professionals and intended for internal use. Of course, every educated manager, manager of the industry works with professionals to always know how correct or wrong he or she is. On the other hand, the role of the Council of Representatives is to identify the interests and attitudes of groups of society, which is very important. Representatives are delegated from interest groups, and the views of such councils are actively used outwards to demonstrate public support for public policy. The Authority or the Ministry always has a great temptation to mix the tasks of the two councils, namely to set up an expert board, but to declare its opinion as a public attitude. And as a result, there's a kentatur - neither a horse nor a man. Let me say more: such councils are formed intentionally to mislead the public, also in violation of their own written regulations and procedures, as was the case, for example, when looking at this draft law at the existing Advisory Council. I propose that the Advisory Council be set up clearly as a representative board and not as an expert board. May it be a man, not a horse! I therefore propose that the Article 21 of the law, entitled ‘Public participation in education’, be supplemented by a section defining the responsibilities of the Advisory Council. I propose that the Advisory Councils on Minorities in Education should represent the professional and public interest groups involved in the implementation of minority education in a proportionate manner. And they are not only leaders of minority schools, but also teachers, educators, parents of minority education institutions, minority societies and founders of minority education institutions. Of course, no one deprives industry leaders of the possibility of setting up a board of experts, but talking about the attitude of society based on the circle of experts - a selected person - and talking about their views as being wrong about the attitude of society. Once again, that would be misleading the public. I urge you to set up the Consultative Council of the Ministry of Education and Science on minority education as a representative board, which would really show the precise public opinion, and to show the public the opinion of delegated persons about what is happening in the ministry... It would be a good mirror, it would motivate the ministry to do better and not be tempted to cheat, forgive, and give the impression that everything is right and that society supports the ministries. It was by presenting to the Saeima both draft laws that we are now looking at. It has already been shown that the members of the board were, in fact, opposed, but the vote in the board did not just take place to provide absolute support for the initiatives that were created in the ministry. That is why I suggest changing this fashion and...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U213	Mr Pimenova, your debate is over. I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U214	... to provide other advice. Thank you for your attention. Please support my proposal. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U215	Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U216	The Commission did not support 14. - Mr. Pimenova's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U217	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no, 17, 55, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U218	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U220	16. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U221	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no, 17, 55, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U222	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. Partly supported and included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U223	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U224	18. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U226	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. Some support has been given and included in proposal 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U227	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U228	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U230	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. Partly supported and included 22. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U231	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U232	22. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U234	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Member Lazareva. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U235	Dear colleagues, Before we start a debate on this proposal, I would like to inform you that Members of the Parliament are asking Mr Abu Meri, Mr Brigmanis, Mr Gaidis Berzins, Mr Kaimiņš and Mr Upenieks to continue the sitting without interruption until all the items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? Members have reservations! Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 16, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, A decision has been made to continue the Saeima session without interruption. And now the debate. Name of Member Jelen Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U236	As regards the deadlines for implementing the reform, I propose that the draft law enter into force after two years, i.e. after the implementation of the quality monitoring system for education and the provision of objective and sufficient data on the need and feasibility of introducing changes to minority education programmes, taking into account career and employment indicators. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U237	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U238	Mrs Lazareva, I do not really understand why you do not believe in the ability of Russian children to learn the language of the country? Why do you want to delay the whole process for two more years if it had to be done 27 years ago? And I think if you were to look at and talk to the parents of children whose children have studied in the Latvian kindergarten and are already speaking the best Latvian language in the first class than you do (in the Hall laughter.) Then you would realize that there is no reason for such a delay. Those families who want to link their future to Latvia must be given the opportunity to learn education in the state language. And that's all.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U239	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U240	Dear colleagues, We ask for fuel once: provide quality education with high-quality teachers. But the Minister himself said in his interview that we lack Latvian language teachers. What do you want? What kindergartens are you talking about? Make sure they are! In 27 years, with the millions we spent and spend more... If our specialists finish every year... How many teachers? About a thousand! And how many go to school? Just 30 percent, 40 percent? And that's it! That is the answer. We're asking... we stand up for higher quality education, not so much. Keep up, and everything will be all right! But the Ministry cannot provide. It's too low. Today we already need to pay, not EUR 720 per rate, but at least EUR 1200, and then we will. But Mr Shadursky promised us that only EUR 1000 would be at best in 2022. We already need one and a half thousand bets in 2022! Then we can organise a competition. In Portugal, for example, the standard of living is the same as with us, but they have 13 salaries, they have 14 wages. And their average salary? The experienced educators already receive two and a half thousand euros, while the average wage in Portugal is 800 euros per month. So think about it! If we had education among the three priorities last year, where is it now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U241	The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U242	Forgive me my emotional speech, but now I'm tired of listening once! Who provides teachers with salary? Who votes for the state budget? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Rubiks: Taxpayers! ; dep. Mr Tutins: 'Your proposal was that way!' ) Well then once, please learn that the Saeima accepts the budget! Give me three times more targeted grants for educators' salaries, and they will. And stop talking about the fact that Latvian cannot be taught until there are no teachers! Are we not going to teach mathematics, physics while there are no teachers?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Right? It's okay! But Latvian - provide salaries, and then let us teach! Now I'm really tired of this demagogy once! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Ribakov: “Demagogy from your side!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U243	The name's Ivan Clementyev, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U244	Who voted in favour of the national budget? Very easy to check. You can open that vote and see who voted in favour of the budget there. Our group did not vote in favour of the budget. That's one. Second. As you are in government, you sit in the Coalition Cooperation Council and also determine yourself what is a country's priority. If we can allocate two percent of GDP to NATO's needs - 560 million per year... So, if we also have education, medicine, then please find the resources! We are always told that there is economic growth every year. All the time, two and a half percent... Only inflation we have more than 2.8 per cent. You're planning that budget. If we can just give back eight million for... I don't know... about the electricity produced, which is essentially not produced, and you don't control... your party does not control it... So what do we want?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Find the eight million to return to the budget for unproduced electricity - here, please, you have the money! It's just one point, but you can find maybe ten such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U245	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U246	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mrs Lazareva's proposal, which is actually postponing the implementation of the reform. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U247	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Lazareva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 18, it's against - 55, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U248	24. - Mr Morozov's proposal. Partially supported and included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U249	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U250	Hello, colleagues! I did not put it to the vote, but I would like to say... At the last reading, when there is in fact already a clear result, and the fact that no negotiations here in the Saeima make sense no longer, I would just regret the fact that, while the basic task of the reform is to improve the quality of education, it is clear that the reform is being implemented without any plan and Mr Shadurski is ready to achieve his goal at any cost by destroying part of the schools. The price is high this time. The number of unknowns is too high; only one fact is clear - there will be no minority schools in Latvia, but the rest remains unknown - about people, about methodological materials, about funding. Can anyone tell you, for example, how much money needs from municipalities and how the Ministry plans to demand this money? How much more will you need to share the classes? Will methodological support from the State be sufficient? What are the pressures? How many teachers are going to lose their jobs? What will be the support of children and students when they discover that they have different levels of preparation? How much additional will the methodological aid be paid? At the moment, the Ministry promises that everything must be resolved, and no one is concerned about how it can be solved. After all, the schools themselves will put everything in place, and they will solve it. Such a chaotic approach is neither correct nor good, and certainly will not produce good results either in the short term or for long-term objectives such as quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U251	Thank you. I closed the debate. The Member has not asked for a vote on the proposal that has been partly supported. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U252	25. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U254	26. - the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Shadursky. It has been supported and included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U255	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U256	27. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U257	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U258	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The aim of these amendments is to ensure equal opportunities for every child in Latvia to receive quality education, which contributes to learning the knowledge, skills and attitudes required in the 21st century. This new language regulation will expand the opportunities of minority youth both in professional and higher education, where training is already taking place in the state language, as well as their competitiveness in the labour market in our country. At the same time, Latvian language and culture are also the basis for uniting Latvian societies. The aim of society, as well as the state, is therefore to maintain the language and to ensure the values of its national identity, civil society and the integration of society in the long term. The role of the state language in Latvia will be strengthened when implementing the transition to state language training in secondary school, and at the same time, the specificity and development of the national cultures of different nationalities of Latvia will be ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, I really want to thank the Ministry of Education and Science and Kārlis Šadurskis, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers, which led these amendments, very much today. I would also like to thank those non-governmental and public organisations that have supported these amendments very much. It will bring long-term benefits to our young people, regardless of their nationality. At times, we had discussions at committee meetings, but we have reached the finish line. That is why I am asking for support for both this, the 27th proposal and the amendments to the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U259	Thank you. The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U260	Honourable Members! Well, better late than never! We have gone to this day for 14 years since it was introduced at the high school of national minorities in 2004. It's been a long time. Imagine, even if we had been in the class year after year, we would have done so more quickly. Today we are talking about self-evident things, we are debating as if we were doing some wonders, but in fact we are doing only what is normal in a national country: we are saying that education is a state language. We're talking about children going to be hard, teachers going to be hard... Those kids who are starting education right now... their parents were born independent in Latvia. What are we talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( The interdependencies of the fraction are: “For quality! ” ) I will be honest about starting work in this government, and I was not sure that we would be able to do so. Because so far, the over-to-the-counter prodigal, over-tolerance... Well, it has always been in our society. But today I am really proud and grateful to the Latvian Saeima that when voting on the proposals in these two laws, the dividing line is not a coalition-position. The dividing line is “the good things for Latvia and the others”. And I am very happy with the majority vote of the Saeima. And about some of the reservations that have been made here: hasty, chaotic reform. Mr Morozov has read a whole list of things that the Ministry of Education and Science does not know. Oh, my God! He knows how to do that. There are, of course, issues to be addressed and they will be addressed, but during this government we have worked very closely and successfully. Education guidelines to promote the participation of students in Latvia and to strengthen their attitude towards the state language were adopted in July 2016. Amendments to the Education Law, which do not allow to work in school for non-volatile teachers, were adopted in November 2016. Conducting centralized examinations in the state language - Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers adopted in August 2017. Informing the public about the progress of this reform, the reforms to be decided today - it is also, in my opinion, a full and successful one. Draft law announced at the meeting of State Secretaries in December, supported by government in January. And now we have examined this in three readings, we have reached the last draft of the law, and I would like to congratulate all the young people of Latvia who will be able to study together in a few years' time, celebrate together, feel proud about Latvia and love our country, and we will end this pointless discussion in which language we must learn, speak, think, write and work. Thank you, colleagues. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U261	I closed the debate. Both speakers support the Commission's opinion and do not require a vote. Members support 27. - the proposal submitted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U262	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the third reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Act, once again expressing the greatest respect to the Minister for Education and Science.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U263	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. (Applause) Thank you to the Minister of Education and Science, who actively participated in the Saeima sitting! ( Internouncing call.) Name of Member Janis Upenieks's report on the motives for voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U264	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I was born and raised in Valmiera. , studied at Valmiera Viesturs high school. During my studies, I have had the opportunity to study together with students from Estonia, Lithuania and many other countries at the Riga School of Economics, where the studies take place in English, and I have been successful in spending half a year in Kazakhstan, studying in Russian and English. In my own name and in the name of others who want to learn, I can say with confidence that language has never been an obstacle to knowledge. For many years, the language issue discussed in schools has been just a weapon in the fight between politicians to manipulate society, artificially escalate problems that do not exist, and to keep people in different information spaces. Every student and student wants to have equal opportunities for all to gain high-quality knowledge, they all have equal strength to compete in the labour market, so that they are all able to live with a clear goal: to move forward, not to curb everyone in their information box and to use as a weapon in the fight between politicians. This is a historic day, my fellow Members, so I would like to thank Minister Kārlis Šadurskis and the Cabinet of Ministers very much, I would like to thank Aldis Adamovičs and the entire Education, Culture and Science Commission, and I would like to thank all Members of the Saeima very much. Despite opposition, particularly from older people, we all dared to put this matter right. We have done what we should have done 25 years ago. We are finally focusing on how best it will be for young people, because one language in schools is the basis for a high standard of knowledge for all. A single language in schools is the basis for a single information space. A single national language in schools is the basis for a united, cohesive and strong society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U265	Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U266	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with amendments to Alcohol Drinks Movement Law (No 1140/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined this draft law at first reading. The aim of the draft law is to ensure the codification of administrative infringements regarding infringements in the circulation of alcoholic beverages, assessing the composition of administrative infringements and taking into account the dangers, consequences, topicality and relevance to public legal relations, as well as public harm. This includes penalties relating to the sale of alcoholic beverages to minors, the purchase of illicit alcoholic beverages and alcohol, the production and production, storage and transfer of illicit alcoholic beverages and the authorisation of illicit production, production, storage or sale of alcoholic beverages in their possession. This draft law was adopted at first reading by the Commission. I call on my fellow Members to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U267	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U268	Thank you for your support. Let us wait until 27 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U269	Deadline for the submission of proposals - March 27, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U270	Dear President, Honourable Members! The draft law includes amendments to increase responsibility for excise goods operations. We see that during the 28th year of Latvia's independence, the same illegal activity will continue: cigarettes, vodka and other excise goods are offered. So there are two things. This law therefore provides for an increase in the administrative penalties for the production, mixing and packaging of excise goods, as well as for the disposal of non-compliant products, which amounts to up to 140 fine units for individuals. The fine unit is five euros, i.e. up to 700 euros for individuals, up to 7000 euros for legal persons, up to 2000 euros for board members. And it's important to add: no matter how much we raise up, we're going to increase all these penalties, obviously a man who's been going there with three or four cigarette packs for the 20th time, that protocol costs more than that penalty. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission looked at it in parallel with the Department of Criminal Law of the Ministry of Justice. Work is currently under way on criminals who are systematically punished by administrative penalties. Only then will we get the result. Please support the draft law and submit proposals for second reading by 19 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U271	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 61, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for submitting your proposals... So, April 19th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U272	April 19th Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U273	On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U274	Dear colleagues, This amendment of the law has also been prepared for implementation of administrative liability and provides for a specific regulation regarding the violations that have been recorded in the electronic declaration system of the State Revenue Service in cases where declarations and other information have to be submitted electronically. The proposed version provides for the generation of a warning to the customer five days before the declaration or the relevant information system is submitted and a penalty is imposed from the first day on which the relevant declaration is not lodged. When we examined this amendment in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, we have already pointed out to the applicants the shortcomings, and I assume that it will be removed at second reading. In particular, the proposed amendment in fact excludes a type of punishment such as the warning provided for by the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. In addition, the penalties applicable shall not, to any extent, be differentiated here depending on the date on which the declaration has been made late. It would be normal if, from the time when the declaration was not lodged, the first penalty - warning - and then, for example, in five days' time, the next penalty - penalty - would come into force, which would depend on the number of days past. As I said, these shortcomings have already been mentioned and I assume that they will be corrected for the second reading. The aim in itself is already to apply equal treatment to every taxpayer. The current system has not ensured that a large number of customers who do not submit timely declarations can be identified as one problem. But, of course, many things in this world are connected: those who carry out their duty in good faith, for example by submitting value added tax returns, suffer if their related business customers fail to fulfil that obligation in good time. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for the proposed legislation at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U275	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U276	Dear colleagues, In the Legal Commission we looked at the draft law accompanying this new system - amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. And, looking at these amendments, the Ministry of Finance had such an idea - to compare... this new system, automatic punishment, compare with the penalties generated by authors. And here really comes that comparison. So let's compare it! I think there is a big difference between these two systems. Overspeed, unlike timely declarations, can lead to severe consequences as soon as possible. When compared with the planned comprehensive automatic punishment in the EDS system... Fixed speed measurement devices shall be installed in places where speeding is particularly unacceptable and may have tragic consequences. Thus, automatic penalties for speed violations are not simply the failure of the system to deal with unpunished speed offenders, as the Ministry of Finance points out at the moment, but it is an effective means of improving road safety in certain dangerous areas in order to protect other road users and also the driver himself. On the other hand, the generation of automatic protocol in the EDS system of the SRS is, in my opinion, nothing more than an attempt to deal with the inability to manage the bureaucratic machine itself and to process a large amount of information. All due respect to the employees of the State Revenue Service, who are currently working hard to advise citizens and entrepreneurs. But has any of the initiators of amendments thought about how many people go from the State Revenue Service building without waiting for their room for consultation? With these amendments, the State Revenue Service is asking us for help in order to facilitate the order of punishment of persons. I would really like to support the initiatives of the State Revenue Service and the initiatives of the Ministry of Finance to support citizens. Unfortunately, the proposals tabled by the opposition are never supported in this area. I would also like to support initiatives to strengthen the capacity of consultations. But why don't we start with penalties? According to the data available to the State Revenue Service, only two per cent receive the penalty for late submission of the declaration, while 98 per cent remain unpunished. Therefore, automated punishment is a way for the State Revenue Service to solve this problem. But at the moment it seems that this incompetentness, inaction and inability to create a workable system that would be tax-friendly, the State Revenue Service solves with total punishment. I believe, colleagues, that this and all the accompanying draft laws are legal repression of the natural and legal persons of Latvia, which does not honor the public administration. And if we like to compare everything with Estonia, then I would advise you to really look at the Estonian State Revenue Service's website and see how they are now communicating with the population, and how citizens are entitled to even receive pre-filled declarations to see if everything has been properly filled in by the country. I call on you not to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U277	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U278	I'll just add that... As I said, at first reading, when examining this draft, the Commissioners also pointed out a number of shortcomings to the applicants. Once again, I can say that, of course, we are fined from the first day without applying the intended form of punishment - warning - and do not differentiate this amount of punishment... it is already different in itself from what is currently laid down in the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U279	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U280	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 19, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U281	Thank you. Proposals are due by 19 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Walter Dambe.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U282	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Members! We see the very important draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child" at second reading. 11 proposals have been received by the Commission. Proposal No 1 - Proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U284	2. is the proposal of the Member, Mr Trupovnieks. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U286	3. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U288	4. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U290	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U291	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U292	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U294	7. - also a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U296	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U298	9. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U299	9. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U300	Yes, the proposal of the Saeima Legal Bureau. Error. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U302	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U303	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U304	11. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U306	So please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U307	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children’s Rights”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U308	Please submit your proposals by 29 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U309	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 29 March this year. Dear colleagues, On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”, first reading. The draft laws are submitted by Members Hosam Abu Meri, Veiko Spolitis, Ints Dalderis, Aldis Adamovičs, Anrijs Matīss and Aleksandrs Kiršteins. And the alternative law - “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”” submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. First, on behalf of the Commission, Member Edgars Putra will report on both draft laws, then there will be a debate on both draft laws together and then there will be a vote. First of all, on the draft law tabled by Members and then on the alternative law. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U310	Hello, colleagues! In the Commission, we examined the draft law on the Bank of Latvia submitted by six Members. The draft law provides for determining the criteria to be met by the President of the Bank of Latvia and his deputy, as well as for reducing the term of office for five years by limiting the President of the Bank of Latvia to two terms of office, and for limiting the powers of the President of the Bank of Latvia, his deputy and member of the council for as long as this official is suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. So this means that, too, in the event of an accidental accident, the official is suspended. And let's say, in the case of the President of the Bank of Latvia, who is now active... He has an appropriate safety net and, of course, he cannot take up that post. All the parties involved - representatives of the Bank of Latvia, the Ministry of Justice, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima - were heard by the Commission, and in fact the greatest concerns expressed by the parties were about compliance of the norms with the Statute of the European Central Bank. The limitation of time and the definition of qualifying criteria are likely to be compatible with the European Central Bank, since many of them are, to say,... Then the limitation of the mandate... the provision would be contrary to the Statute of the European Central Bank. The majority of MEPs in the Commission also considered that the qualification criteria currently included in this six-member proposal were too narrowing the number of potential applicants. Regarding the limitation of powers, I must say, the European Central Bank... This is not the first case when we, Latvia... And other countries of the European Union are in a similar situation. Therefore, the European Central Bank has now addressed the Court of Justice of the European Union to give its opinion on whether the powers of the members of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank can be restricted in national law. Taking all this information into account, the majority of the commission tended to create an alternative draft law. The alternative draft law provides for the introduction of those rules which are likely to be truly compatible with the European Central Bank (i.e. qualification criteria), and this limitation of the term means that the President of Latvijas Banka cannot stay in office for more than two terms. I call for this draft law, which is a draft law of six Members, not to be supported, but to support the alternative law created by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U311	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U312	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Members! I invite you not to support any of the original or alternative draft laws, because both are a continuation of the performance that was around the detention of the President of Latvijas Banka on hot feet. At best, it will be a hot rush. In the worst case, a political hint for investigation, justice, public mood. Secondly, one could, of course, talk about the restrictions on the term of office, whatever I said earlier. However, it should be noted here that the law “On the Bank of Latvia” on the background of the European national banks is not a unique exception. And if we look at this issue of limitation of office consistently, systematically, as the President of Latvia has pointed out, then Members should start with themselves. These are arguments in brief. Now a few words about where the feet of these two draft laws come from. Of course, it is an inspiration from events around the arrest of the President of the Bank of Latvia, as I said. Remember, the situation was that people did not understand what was happening. Many had a desire to express their opinions or to influence the opinions of others. There was also some confusion, which will continue from some of the high Latvian officials, and statements that the detention of the President of the Bank of Latvia is not related to ABLV Bank and also to the second one – NORVIK BANK. The most direct connection if we look now, when those dusts are a little bit down... On February 13, the institutions of the US Ministry of Finance are harshly opposed to ABLV Bank, also against Latvia in general: “You have no order there.” And a few days after that, this performance begins. We've caught a thief - the main barvede, the only right guilty. We, the rest, are all pure, and now basically all these calls and then draft laws are a derivative of it. Chief of KNAB Straume said that there will be no more performances, but in this case the performance was very necessary. And what is the most depressing of this situation? Four years... It turns out that four years ago some old thing was probably related to “TRASTA COMERCBANK”, and four years ago nothing happened. Nothing essential. We don't touch anything there. And then suddenly, at one moment, there is some force that needs only one hint of hand to trigger repressive institutions (in addition, very demonstrative), instruments that create a social mood, and then the legislation follows. The activities of the Saeima in some way too, because who will be against this national line, which is encouraged by both the calls and the law, because objecting to this would mean that a skeleton in the closet itself could suddenly swing. Maybe I let each of us have our own perspective, our own point of view. I obviously am the product of the Soviet era, which has its prejudices or resistance to participating in some collective condemnations and draft laws derived from them. But this does not remind me of my Soviet experience. It reminds me of the movies of a little earlier times, where there is... “No, I don’t say that you’re guilty, but you have to shoot out because you’re bad for the people and for the interests of the state.” So we have different points of view from which this draft law is now derived. I say what I see, feel, hear, and maybe I will. And any manipulation at this moment, including calls and draft laws on the office of President of the Bank of Latvia, unless it is an acute national necessity right now, I will simply not support. This is not an acute necessity. I also invite you to wait for those dusts to settle a little bit. Annotated by the draft law, we have talked with whom we have been consulted - with the Bank of Latvia. I am not sure that the Bank of Latvia was very supportive of this, but it was also appropriate to consult the European Central Bank. And refraining from a political judgment in this case will only motivate the case to be investigated, referred to the court and also to the trial; we would all be interested in it, and this should not be covered by imitations... with other actions that bring all of this to us for years, as we see with other legal proceedings. It's about the first. Second. Yes, the question of limitation of the term of office could be dealt with regardless of what I have now outlined. But here you have to take account, above all, of the position of head of the national central bank... As I said, Latvijas Banka is not consistently different from our law to the background of progressive Europe. It is said that such restrictions exist in at least 10 countries. And I can name some countries with these restrictions - Greece, Italy, Cyprus. Whether these will be the most striking examples of the financial world, I am not going to say it at all. There are enough countries that do not have such restrictions, and this must also be assessed. These are countries such as Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Luxembourg and Germany. Yes, well, we can also discuss restrictions on the term of office in other posts; this is something we have already begun. We have had discussions and decisions on the chairmen of the courts. Now there is a bill on TV and radio chiefs. Yes, I recognise this as a point of assessment. But if Members consistently believe that rotation is necessary to avoid corruption, so that there is no staggering, then really should start with yourself. Is that a member of the Saeima who is a minor official sitting here and receiving some "grant"? Here perhaps we should start with systematic restrictions. If not, the assessment should be based on uniform principles that require and do not include restrictions on the term of office. That is what has been proposed and should be heard and acted upon. Public Administration and Municipal Commission - please go ahead! There is also a reference to one previous draft law, which is rejected by the President of Latvia, and there is an indication... a statement by the President to that effect. The President also talks about systematic evaluation, all officials, all positions taken on board. Therefore, from the above, I can say that at the moment I say no to both the original draft law and the alternative draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U313	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U314	Hello, colleagues, again! I would say that, in fact, both of these draft laws - right we are doing that we are looking at them together - are a reflection of our powerlessness towards the President of the Bank of Latvia. That was our joint vote. In my opinion, the colleagues who have spoken here have very well explained that there are no other options yet, how to actually vote in favour of the call for Rimšēvičs to resign. He laughed at us all together and individually. He was funny about our calls. There's a second eye at the moment. If we look at this situation... Mr. Dalder! I think that the original draft law was well aware or could not know that we did not actually reach the President of the Bank of Latvia. It is essentially a matter for the European Central Bank, and I think that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, working for such a long time, could not have known it, it should have been known. And if we look at both draft laws, then we see that the second alternative, the Commission's alternative, basically wiped down the curse that was put forward in the case of the first draft. I want to talk about three things that appear in all three draft laws. I haven't spoken for 13 minutes if what... It's where the rest of the... All right, all right, I'm... ( The transcripts are: ‘ Time count backwards! It shall be for the remaining 13 minutes.’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U315	Mr Baloža, do not worry, continue the debate. Everything happens as you need it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U316	If we look at these two draft laws... First of all, what can I conclude... The initial draft law raised the question of the procedure of suspension of the President of the Bank of Latvia. Then it is about deadlines - two in a row, after which you can't take this post, and for a good reputation. I'll start from the end. I think Gaidis Berzins said a good thing on television. I'm not going to tell you now, Mr. Burns, where it's in the show... each commission should, within the scope of its competence, be analysed by going beyond the laws under its responsibility... with regard to the terms of office. In essence, on the one hand, it would seem logical to set up a single working group. But we know how those working groups end because the commissions are quite autonomous. And in this case, the Legal Commission has already said its name, has already dealt with the chairmen of courts and so on... and has taken into account the President of Latvia's call to look at the system. If we look at it, it's not all right. I remember in my time a discussion about the second term of office, when the outgoing Chernobyl wanted to go for another term in a row, and inguna Silver came... So here, of course, if we look at that deadline and the suspension procedures, then I would have a lot to say. But in this respect, I would just like to remind Mr Dalder, who is the original submitter of the initiative. The same Inguna Silver... Both in 2016 and 2017 submitted proposals for the bank manager. It is precisely the question of not more than two consecutive terms in respect of this term of office. So, I think, we're going to put this up. I don't know how in other countries, but from the overall point of view it would be right. And it would also be right for every commission manager, as I said, to look at the laws that govern him, which may not have such time limits. Second, on that perfect reputation. Well, I don't know... Rimšēvičs was not finally a bad person when we first... I'm not lucky. CONNECTION had already moved him and supported him for the first and second time... You supported him. And I think that this does not change anything at all in this case, and neither does the term of office change anything if we are talking about Rimšēvičs. So, unlike the previous speaker, I would ask for support for the alternative draft law collecting the crumbs that were in the first draft law. Because, in general, it is not bad that people of good repute would come for bank managers, and I think it is right that they should have no more than two consecutive terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U317	Thank you. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U318	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the first draft law-makers, I ask for a little attention to the argument that we are making this draft law at all and that is foreseen in this proposal. It is often the case that we review many things in specific situations. In this case, the huge risks of international reputation and the undermining of the reputation of our country have recently been related to the detention and figuring of the Bank of Latvia’s management in criminal proceedings. Of course, this also led us to revise the rules relating to the appointment, maintenance and appointment of this official. And we saw the need for at least four areas... four issues that can be changed or added to our existing framework. The first thing we have heard here is the demands on the President of the Bank of Latvia, who, it turns out, has not been defined in the law so far. In order to simplify this situation and, let us also say, to develop a system approach, we took the same demands, and we added a little bit to what they are to the head of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. In particular, this person must be competent in financial management matters, with a good reputation and at least five years of experience in financial and capital markets, as well as in international financial institutions. I think it is absolutely enough and at the same time it is not very discriminatory to candidates, because it is difficult to imagine a new or another President of the Bank of Latvia who would not have such an experience. Second. Of course, we wanted to see how the powers of the President of the Bank of Latvia could be restricted if criminal proceedings were initiated against him. And we see that such regulation exists for members of the Saeima and judges of the Constitutional Court for that time. And I really want to pay attention here... We don't judge the court here, we are not entitled to do it, but for the time that man has... while a person is in a situation where he is being prosecuted, we must have the right to limit his powers with regard to the duties he is carrying out. The third is, of course, the question of this situation, that a person initially meets those requirements, but let us say, the situation or situation in which he no longer meets those requirements. This is, of course, about reputation. I think this is very important, especially if we see that reputation in the financial world is absolutely crucial. Even large and stable banks only due to reputational risks are actually losing everything in a few weeks. I therefore think that the issue of reputation is extremely important and very important. And the fourth thing. We offer this limitation for the President of the Bank of Latvia to shorten to two terms and set each time limit is five years. Ten years in one place - this, I think, is definitely enough to be able to gain a great deal of experience, but not to sit in these positions. And, as we have heard here, there are quite a number of leading institutions in Latvia whose officials, including even the President, are subject to such a time limit. Why, however, do we want to retain our right to vote on this first draft that we have tabled, and not on the alternative that colleagues have tabled afterwards? We set up a budget and financial (tax) commission... I think there is really a question of reputation here. And this possibility, at least for the time being, as against this person, the head of this very important institution of the country, has claims... As is the case with us as Members of the Saeima... We must be able to limit his mandate temporarily, at least for that time. I call for support for our draft law. And it is clear that, if the alternative bill is supported, we will, of course, make our proposals - identical to those we have at the moment - for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U319	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U320	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that we looked at this at two meetings of the Commission. One of the meetings was the meeting of the Bank of Latvia. And if we are talking about these norms, which are included in the alternative bill, then it should be said that the representatives of the Council of the Bank of Latvia, in a broad consensus, supported them. As regards the alternative draft law, these deadlines, too, which have limited powers... As I said, the road accident also leads to the temporary suspension of this Council member. And that, I think, at this moment... Well, that's not right. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Nordic! Let's vote!' ) Let's vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U321	Dear colleagues, So first we vote in favour of the draft law tabled by Members and then in favour of the alternative draft law presented by the Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”” (No 1156/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -41, for -6, for -26, for -26. The draft law at first reading has been supported. This means that we will no longer vote on an alternative draft law. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U322	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U323	So this April 12th. Proposals are due by 12 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “On First Reading of the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Canada, represented by the National Defence Department of Canada and the Armed Forces of Canada, Memorandum of Understanding on an Extended Partnership on Defence and Security Cooperation”. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U324	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with document No 4596. With this draft law, we ratified a memorandum between Latvia and Canada, which lays down a framework for cooperation and protection between Latvia and Canada. This determines in detail the scope of rights and obligations of Canadian armed forces and the persons belonging to them, as well as contractors, while staying in Latvia. The military presence of Canada in Latvia is very important and we highly appreciate it, especially this year of the centenary. Canada has made a very significant contribution, which is necessary as part of NATO's expanded presence in Latvia. The establishment of the legal basis for the residence of Canadian armed forces and persons belonging to them is a prerequisite for continuing to receive the collective protection guarantees provided by Canada and to ensure the continued presence of Canadian forces in Latvia. The memorandum concerns the Canadian armed forces, the construction work to be carried out on them, vehicle registration and transfer rules. Although the conditions of residence of NATO Member States' armed forces in other NATO countries are defined by the North Atlantic Treaty member states agreement, this memorandum complements it with detailed provisions relating only to the Canadian armed forces. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law at first reading and supported it. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I also call on my colleagues to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U325	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft law “On the First Reading of the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Canada, represented by the National Defence Department of Canada and the Armed Forces of Canada, Memorandum of Understanding on an Extended Partnership on Defence and Security Cooperation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U326	Deadline for submission of proposals - March 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U327	March 27th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U328	Dear Members, We are working on the draft law on the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. The new agreement covers both economic and trade issues, human rights issues and the fight against weapons of mass destruction and terrorism, aimed at strengthening and developing relations between the European Union and Armenia, thus also facilitating Latvia's business in this market. Ratification of this agreement gives Latvia an opportunity to strengthen cooperation with Armenia by improving the commercial environment and giving Latvian entrepreneurs greater opportunities for cooperation and export with Armenia. The Foreign Affairs Commission supported this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U329	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part, at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U330	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 27 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U331	March 27th. Members agree. The next item is the draft law amending the law on the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Citizens of Other Countries, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U332	The draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Citizens of Other Countries’ was endorsed by the Foreign Affairs Commission at second reading. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U333	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law Amending the law on the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Citizens of Other Countries! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U334	Deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading: 27 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U335	March 27th. Members shall not object. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the law on the flag of Latvia (registration number 1085/Lp12). On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U336	For the second reading, the Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”. 1. - Dombrava's proposal. Partially supported, included in proposals 2, 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U337	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U338	2. - Prime Minister Kučinski's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U339	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U340	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U341	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U342	4. - Prime Minister Kučinski's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U343	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U344	5. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U345	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U346	6. - Prime Minister Kučinski's proposal. Supported by proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U347	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U348	7. - Dombrava's proposal. Partly supported by proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U349	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U350	8 / 8 - Prime Minister Kučinski's proposal. Supported by proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U351	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U352	9. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Supported by proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U353	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U354	And 10. - a proposal from the Legal Commission containing proposals previously supported. And this proposal, 10. - The Legal Commission's proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U355	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U356	11. - the proposal of Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs. Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U357	If the proposal is withdrawn, we shall continue with proposal 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U358	12. - Dombrava's proposal. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U359	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U360	13. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partly supported and included in proposal 14.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U361	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U362	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U363	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U364	On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U365	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” (registration number 1085/Lp12) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U366	Proposals for third reading shall be submitted by 6 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U367	6 April. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” (registration number 1109/Lp12), second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U368	For the second reading, the Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U369	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U370	2. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U371	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U372	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U373	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U374	On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U375	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” (registration number 1109/Lp12) at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U376	Proposals for third reading shall be submitted by 30 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U377	April 30th. Members agree. Dear colleagues, The agenda for today's sitting has therefore been examined. I would like to inform you of the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. The Members Andrejs Klementjevs, Potapkins, Arthur Rubiks, Cilevičs and Orlovs submitted a question to the health minister’s duty performer Māris Kučinskis “On the extension of medical treatment in the provision of rehabilitation services”. A written reply has been received that does not satisfy the applicants, but the Prime Minister, as well as the Executive Minister for Health, informs that he cannot attend the oral response because he is on a working visit to Brussels. The question of the Members Andrejs Klementyeva, Ribakova, Orlov, Morozova and Adamsons to the Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the implementation of the project “E-Health in Latvia”” has also been answered in writing. The written reply received is not satisfactory for the applicants, but the Prime Minister informs them that he cannot attend the oral response because he is on a working visit to Brussels. The question of Members Lazareva, Morozova, Zarina, Pimenova and Potapkin was referred to Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis, Prime Minister of the Republic of Lithuania Mr Māris Kučinskis “On Quality Control of Education and Competitiveness of the Education System”. The written replies received are partially granted to the applicants, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Zarina, Urbanovich, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Potapkin to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On Compliance of the Action of the Government of the Republic of Latvia with the National Interest of Latvia in Implementing the System of Support for Subsidized Electricity” has been re-addressed to Prime Minister Arvilas Asheradenas. The written replies received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs the applicants that it is not possible to come to an oral reply because it is on a mission in the Kingdom of Belgium. Member Zariņa, Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Raimonds Rubika question to Minister of Economics Arvilas Aseradens “On verification of subsidised power plants by the Ministry of Economics, their objectivity and their relevance to public interests” has been answered in writing. The written replies received are not satisfied, but the Minister informs the applicants that it is not possible to come to an oral reply because it is on a mission in the Kingdom of Belgium. The question by Members Silver, Kūtra, Stepanenko, Mežecka and Baloža, Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola, about the reform of the cash registers, was answered in writing. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. The question of MEPs Viļuma, Krūmiņa, Kleinberga, Ruka and Melgailis to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Aseradens “On the grounds of the Ministry of Economics, the withdrawal of permits for renewable energy (AE) cogeneration power plants to sell electricity in the framework of mandatory procurement” was answered in writing. The written reply received does not satisfy the applicants, but the Minister informs them that he is unable to attend the oral response, as he is on a mission in the Kingdom of Belgium. Consequently, the replies to Members' questions today at 5 p.m. do not take place. Dear colleagues, it's time for registration. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! Name for reading the registration results to Gunars Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as these results are available.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U378	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Ivars Brībers, Boriss Cilevičs, Sergejs Dolgopolovs, Raivis Dzintars, Artis Gustovskis, Rihards Kols, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Aivars Meija, Romanas Mežeckis, Sergejs Mirskis, Ināra Mūrniece, Imants Vādnieks, Arvīds Platopers, Romualds Gamuks, Valdis Skujiņš, Vēdo Spolitis, Mārtiņš Šics, Silvija Šimfas, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Vucāns, Ivars Zariņš, Igors Zujevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-22-PT12-474-U379	Thank you. Therefore, I declare closed the sitting of the Saeima on 22 March 2018.
