ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U1	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We will continue to review the agenda approved by the Saeima on 14 June 2018. Before starting to examine the agenda, I would like to inform you of the amendments tabled to the Bureau. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Defence Bureau”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Foreign Affairs Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Hague Convention on the Service of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil and Commercial Matters” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Members Abu Meri, Dalder, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Loskutovs, Upenieks, Gauks and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the third reading of the draft law “Law on referendums of local governments” (No 76/Lp12) by 1 July of this year”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Foreign Affairs Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Do Members have objections? Members have reservations about this amendment to the agenda. That means we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” to be on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 19, refrains - not. Decision adopted. Draft legislation shall be included on the agenda of the sitting. The Foreign Commission is asking to consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” at first reading as the first paragraph of the agenda section “Review of draft laws”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? So if there are objections, we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia” to be considered as the first item of the agenda under the section “Review of draft laws”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. So we are continuing the agenda of the sitting on 14 June 2018. On the agenda - draft decision on distrust to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Good morning, Minister. I think it is a place to continue talking about what kind of rule of law is being provided in Latvia and what interests this rule of law is working for. Unfortunately, many posts in Latvia have baldates, who have generics, but this does not mean that they are able to make decisions worthy of the general. They are advantageous to the system as a vault, who will do the necessary actions at the right time. Unfortunately, neither the interests of Latvia nor the prestige of the country mean nothing to them, because they mean a lot and in fact everything is determined by an abnormal greed. And such an anomalous greed has prevailed and, unfortunately, I must say, is still present in the justice system. I will talk much more today about the country's system of insolvency administration. This system has been, and remains, the area of supervision of the Ministry of Justice and personally the Minister of Justice for many years. Courts have controlled this system from the first day, and public supervision has been in place for 15 years. Several years ago, when I was still working under the State Audit Office, people who were not afraid to face the insolvency administrators who were used to indicting these people when they received very moneyy objects under their responsibility, or under their responsibility. What I saw from the documents and what I was told at that time by the people who suffered from the accusations that were unfounded was that... Why were these people able to oppose these insolvency administrators? Because they had the resources to be tried, they had the power to overcome the media space they had purchased, in which they were subjected to unjustified accusations. And only this enabled them, many years of judgment, to have their own righteousness. But why is all this possible? Because many people, unfortunately, do not have the resources to stand up against the arbitrariness of those insolvency administrators who, although in a small number of cases in this system, work in such a way that they are able to discredit all the prestige of the profession as such. However, I also know many of those who have been doing their work fairly for years. What system has been in place so far? A system of quasi-control on the part of the State, in which the administrator was able to agree with the police on bringing cases, was able to reach the necessary decisions in court. That's how it continued for years. Of course, society’s patience was finally full. There was enormous pressure to make some changes. This Saeima also amended the law during several sessions, giving tools, changing the system, so that it can be achieved that state control over insolvency proceedings is ensured. In my opinion, it would be worth hearing the Minister of Justice how this insolvency control process actually works today. I believe that the current quasi-system has been created, which is creating a simulation that controls here are being ensured. There are loud announcements that 100 insolvency administrators are enough, and the resulting examination system, by establishing a quota that, let us say, what 10 percent of this exam should not be postponed every time, allows us to control in its own way the process - who will be the administrator who will set the exam and who will not. I will tell you how this examination event works. First of all, the Minister has not made it an obligation - which would be elementary - to set up an examination commission. - to develop evaluation criteria and evaluation guidelines for examination works. And even more absurd is that the decisions of this examination committee are not open to question. Such a system does not exist anywhere! There is a system in which it is possible to request a review of the evaluation of your exam or there is an opportunity to pass the exam for the second time. This does not happen in this examination process. The Examination Commission works and makes sure that those who pass the examination are not known and have been assigned identification codes that no one knows. But why don't... I'll tell you one thing. I really guarantee this guy because I know him for years. He has been an insolvency administrator for 14 years (including a lawyer), he has had no excuses, no complaints about the proceedings he has conducted... But it happened that as an administrator, one very valuable object was hit first in order to secure insolvency proceedings. When he had been working honestly for one and a half years, he led the process to the stage at which the realisation of the property began, the part began, when the creditors and, of course, the administrator of the insolvency proceedings began, because he has no income from it until he has actually begun these sales processes. A month and a half before he had to pass this qualification examination, a call came from a responsible, knowledgeable person who told him that he had been decided to replace him with another person in this insolvency administration process. One day before he had to pass this exam, he was again called by this knowledgeable responsible man and said, “Are you sure you going to pass the exam?” But he, even though he worked for so long in this system, believed that the exam could be conducted fairly... Moreover, for many years he had never received any reprimands, had not made any mistakes, had no complaints about him... But he didn't pass this exam. And how does this process work? Still on the examination commission. There are three people in the Examination Commission: one is an employee of the administration who, like the others, does not know the identification code of the particular insolvency administrator who carries out the examination. But I don't know why there's people who know what day, and what moment, who's going to take the exam... In that particular examination commission, a judge is present without that officer of the administration, who has made public many suspicious cases relating directly to insolvency proceedings, and also a person who itself is in public favour of reducing the number of insolvency administrators. As it has happened, as it has not, the assessments of all three members of the Examination Commission have made an error at the same place... This shows that those who work at the Examination Commission actually copy the evaluation made by one evaluator... How is the process going if a person fails to pass the exam? The process is that he is deprived of all the things he has administered so far - no matter how many years he has worked with them and at what stage these things are. Even in cases where any infringement of the insolvency administrator in a particular case is detected, the administrator shall be suspended from it, but all other cases shall remain in his records. In this case, when the administrator, after the examination has not passed, is cancelled from absolutely all cases, a complete chaos is created in this system, because within a few days, with the motivation that it is in the public interest to provide the most qualified administrator for insolvency proceedings, the administrator is replaced. Both creditors and all the others involved in the specific processes are confused about what is now happening suddenly. And this is done without taking into account the work done, the quality of all the work that the administrator in question has done in all matters. Then who benefits from such a system - a quasi-system? On the one hand, it reports to the public what we have great achievements and how many administrators do not pass the exam, and how we clean the system, but on the other hand, it is a step-by-step system for the next qualification level, which allows people to be removed from what is needed at the right time and to put people in positions at the right time. Is this a legal environment? Is this an environment that you can trust? I am not only talking about people who do their job honestly; I am also talking about the prestige of the country. Does it create confidence in those people who really... I would very much like them to want to invest their resources in Latvia so much needed - much needed! - workplaces. And all the more, high-paid jobs. I would very much like the Minister of Justice to really evaluate his role and, if he does not have the opportunity to ensure the rule of law in the country, then he has the strength and the courage to resign. It would be in the interests of Latvia as a whole! Because the prestige of the Latvian state has been completely indifferent to the process for years, the contribution of people who do this work honestly is indifferent. I believe that such a person cannot be in the position of Minister for Justice. The system has been created and continues to exist in the interests of a narrow group. My belief is that this narrow group, which has been greedy for years, cynically extortioning everything and not counting on anything, will not simply get out of the stage. And if there are those working in the justice system who support and help it to exist, then it is not and will never be in favour of Latvia. It must happen that those who are unable to direct their respective positions fairly and in good faith must leave their positions! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U3	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U4	The self-preserve instinct of Members states that when the blackmail campaign begins, it is necessary to sit quietly in order to increase access to the next Saeima. I have not come to politics to fear my chair or to worry about opponents. I have come to get Latvia to become a strong and Latvian country, where our citizens can live in prosperity. Now the story is not about Rasnač, about how good or how bad he has worked. Ministers change, the Minister himself may resign at a time, the Saeima may request his resignation, he may not be elected Minister with the new parliamentary term. I want everyone to be aware that Rasnač is simply being used as a target in a wider political struggle at the moment. And their real goal is to destabilise the situation and make Latvia a weak country, so that some influential businessmen can actively trade with the future of Latvia. Their aim is to establish a government that will allow such trade, as has been the case in the 9th Saeima, during the operation of the Calvin government. In 2013, a mass and costly blackmail campaign was launched against the National Union. At that time, we achieved significant restrictions on the marketing of temporary residence permits. The campaign was organized by no one other than Ainārs Šleser. Then he said the following phrases: “The fact that the nationals “will want” is clear!” ( Shleser’s goal was not to return to politics but to eject the National Association from there.) And I quote his words: “...I will be very active as a citizen and will do all I can to bring to the next government of “Everything to Latvia!” - ‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNK’ would not be present.’ At the time, one of the organisers of this campaign, Edgars Šiens, who, together with Shleser, worked on this campaign, admitted that the cost of advertising residence permits in the media amounts to hundreds of thousands of lats. However, the exact costs cannot be said, as it is not known how long the campaign will have to continue. It may need to be continued until the next elections. The duration of the campaign will also depend on its costs. It is likely that costs could reach millions. At that time, we went on to very money-efficient groups - speculators selling Latvia to holders of temporary residence permits. At that time, they threatened that construction would collapse, that there would be no compensation for the first housing programme. He didn't fall. Construction has only grown in recent years. But I have a reasonable suspicion that we are seeing the continuation of this campaign now. One of the first to debate this draft decision - on distrust to the Minister of Justice - was none other than the generally very quiet member of the Saeima, Roman Mežeckis. Romana, get up in the quarry, tell me how she used to work at Shleser’s “eight-legged”! I would remind you that Roman Mežeckis once, when the Minister of Transport was Ainārs Šleser, acted as a member of several councils and boards. He was a very versatile soldier - the ability to be at the same time both in the Environmental Investment Fund, in Latvian air traffic, in VENTSPLILS NAFTA and in the State Real Estate. Mrs. Silver, who debated a moment ago... I think everyone knows her connection with Mr. Shlesser. I don't even have to tell you much. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Silver: “O! Tell me! Tell me! I don’t know!” ) Ministry of Justice (Dep. D.Zaka: “Speak!” ) of your competence (Interface: “Continue what you have begun!” ) has done a great deal to reform the area of insolvency. But neither today nor last week have we heard a debate on how to reform the area of insolvency better. There was no new idea. There were stories about rats and everything else, but not about how to sort this system out so that there were no misunderstandings. I don't know... I personally can offer... Given that insolvency administrators operate through financial flows and often require intervention by the Administration of the Tax and Customs Police, it may be appropriate to discuss that the entire insolvency area should be entrusted to the Ministry of Finance, which would then, together with the Administration of the SRS Tax and Customs Police, continue to work on the supervision of this area. Perhaps there are some other, better offers for this reform. But here we see a simple attempt to influence the composition of the next Saeima. I can't figure out the motivation of every person. For example, how big is the impact of Daina Liepiņa, who was also Shleser’s “eight-legged”? Why is the Latvian Regions Association one of the most passionate supporters of this draft decision today? ( Internouncing call.) I think this would also be an interesting question, and you could tell about the impact of Daiņa Liepiņš on this decision. I really call for the reform itself to come and debate, not by calling loud slogans, to try to become the most active fighters of justice, as Mr Mežecka has tried to do. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U5	On behalf of the applicants, Member Roman Mežeckis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U6	Dear President, Colleagues! Minister! I would like to begin by saying a few words about criticism. Firstly, it is extremely dangerous for politicians to confuse and ignore criticism. Secondly, there is no criticism, even sharp or very personal, even insulting, for which a rational basis could not be found. I would like to wish the Minister exactly this criticism, not to come up with some fairy tales about the reasons why he is being asked for his depression. Happily, these stories were almost unbelieving. No politicians, no journalists, no people outside the Saeima walls. After the last sitting, it was said that it could not speak from the parliamentary tribunal. Most of all, it was Artus' village, because it is necessary to talk not populistly, but more according to the Rul of Order. What does that mean? Apparently, someone believes that it is necessary to keep silent on shouting acts, to speak according to some “right” guidelines. And we certainly don't need to talk about street myths and manifestos, because, you see, there's a world-accepted order: if a position has already won, it's coming together and making any decisions in the chair, and you, opposition, just need to watch it and do not dive too much. Meanwhile, the government convoy can proceed calmly. I am not saying that the position is completely wrong, no, but last week's debate showed that we obviously think in completely different dimensions. And the problem is not the truthfulness or the wrongness of expression, but the way of thinking. From your point of view, covering the corrupt system of insolvency is normal, because it is a ministry led by another coalition party: “Let’s not let them do what they want there! The key thing is that we do not remain in our ministries and do not appreciate how our ministers work. Because if we criticise them, they will allow us to criticise them. This cannot be tolerated!” We have eyes, ears and mouth – there is stability in the country! But in Latvia it is clear to everyone that Rasnačs has to leave. This is clear to the members, groups and parties of the opposition: they all signed a request for a mission as one. That is also clear for Members. Almost everyone I have spoken to agrees with. This has been recognised by a number of ministers, which I have met in the meantime. This is understood by journalists and people on the streets and on television screens. Even children in kindergartens seem to know it. But although Latvia as a whole, both large and small, knows that Rasnačs has to leave, most of the Saeima Members, forced by the leaders of their parties, are going to vote against the request for a mission. We are perfectly aware that many of you today will vote contrary to your will. As an excuse, some of you say that they will only do so for the sake of loyalty. But loyalty... For what? It's like lots. In fact, you are loyal, not to your parties, but to the cartel of the Coalition Party Cooperation Council - a cartel such as the general public, unrecorded by law - an illegal beast who, through his constitutional actions and decisions, slowly estranges the hopes of the people for a fair Latvia. Is it not regrettable that any Cooperation Council of the coalition parties is controlling your thoughts, will and decisions?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Who are you - elected Members of your people or puppets of the Coalition Party Cooperation Council? As they tell you, how they put the cords on, so your hand grips the button. You, my fellow Members, must choose with whom you each have a treaty: a coalition agreement with a cartel or a treaty with a people. Regarding the vote of confidence, I have heard the phrase: ‘ Oh, how difficult the life of a politician is! How heavy the burden of power is!’ It would be much more pleasant if you didn’t hear but heard what people think behind these walls. And if you listened to it, you would receive the support and trust of the people. And then the burden of power would be much, much easier. And now I want to address in person some members of the coalition who admitted in a fair and principled manner from the parliamentary tribunal that Rasnač has failed to manage the Ministry of Justice successfully, admitted that the insolvency system is incapable and corrupt, but at the end of his excellent speeches said: “I regret to be voting against the demission because the coalition Treaty, the Cooperation Council of the Coalition Parties... “ What do you think when you say that? I'll tell you what he thinks. He lifts up the spade, looks at it with a hard look, but his soul screams: “What is the Cooperation Council of the Coalition?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm electing you, Carly! I'm voting for you, Waldie! Latvia needs strong men, not... “ And the rest of us think the same way. And you know that. Therefore, I call on you, all members of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, to join the public opinion, to show solidarity with it, not to be afraid and to vote in favour of the “demission” of the Minister of Justice. For then it will be not only our victory, but also yours and the victory of righteousness.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U7	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U8	Hello, dear colleagues! Minister! At the very beginning, a small step aside from the basic question. I am very concerned if our colleagues from the parliamentary tribunal frighten us and say that what is recorded in the Constitution and in the parliamentary order circle (that Members must control the government) - it is a blasphemy campaign and it is a threat to Latvia! Well, I'm sorry! But when it comes to the particular question, I really think a lot about it this week... I thought about how to assess the activities of the Minister of Justice. I do not want to devote much time to the analysis of insolvency proceedings. We are already talking about this, and I think it is also the basis for the demand for a depression. This problem has been discussed for years. And I understand that the National Association has indeed been at the wheel for 10 years to sort this out, and Minister Rasnač was close to being able to sort it out. I will remind you that already in 2011 the Constitutional Court uncharacterically adopted a decision related to the judgment, which pointed out the suspicious cooperation between the particular insolvency administrator and judges in the adoption of decisions. At the moment, I know that the judge continues to work. There is no solution. I would like to draw attention to other problems in the Ministry of Justice. For example, forced shared property relations in Latvia. In the judgment of 2009 the Constitutional Court indicated that forced lease relations are not a good thing for Latvia that in fact they... That's not what it was written in direct words... that they sanitize people, the courts are burdened with unnecessary cases, causing the judiciary to overload. The Ministry of Justice promised to sort it out at that time. Six years later, in 2015, the Saeima finally presented a draft law on how to arrange this area, but the Saeima commission was forced to create, and to develop an alternative option – a draft law that is more understandable and human. Next question. Real estate tax. You will say: the Ministry of Justice is not responsible for this. Yes, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, but real estate tax is most closely linked to cadastral value. And the State Land Service is subordinate to the Ministry of Justice. When the real estate bubble started - it was about 2008 - everyone realized that the order of cadastral value was not good because it... if it is linked to the calculation of taxes. In its judgment of 27 January 2011 - that is, seven years ago - the Constitutional Court requested to assess criteria for establishing cadastral value. Please tell me, has something moved forward on the subject of real estate tax and cadastral value, all of which we have talked about in this Saeima? There is a promise over seven years: there will be. Now the value is frozen, next year... New arrangements will be in place for 2020. Next question. Field of responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. Draft laws. Undoubtedly, there are professionals in the Ministry of Justice - people who can write laws. They have been prepared for this, their experience is great. But we often say to the Saeima: “Why do civil servants manage, why are civil servants responsible for politics, not the Saeima? Why are ministers not developing policies? Officials, these professionals also need management and control!” One example: We are very well aware of the General Data Protection Regulation. That Regulation of the European Union was adopted in April 2016. It was the time of the Latvian Presidency if I am not mistaken. It was Latvia's initiative - our own draft law (in agreement, of course, with all other countries). This Regulation shall enter into force on 25 May this year. We know this regulation very well. We need a law in Latvia that will determine how unregulated issues will be regulated by the law of Latvia in the future. When the Saeima received a draft law on personal data protection - Personal Data Protection Law? March! Two months before the entry into force of the Regulation. Once again, the Ministry of Justice... I also think that other commissions receiving draft laws from other ministries are often placed in the role of fire-fighters when laws are urgently to be adopted. Otherwise there will be an infringement procedure or there will be... not in jeopardy, but just to the European Commission, that we are already doing and there will be now. In this case, too, the draft law was drafted and submitted two months before the entry into force of the regulation, and we have not yet adopted it because many questions are unclear and there are concerns as to whether Latvian citizens and entrepreneurs understand what is really there. However, the Ministry of Justice is responsible for the implementation of European Union law in Latvia and the process is coordinated and controlled by the Ministry of Justice. I could tell you more about many other areas here, because I'm quite well “arrived” in the topics of the Ministry of Justice in connection with my professional activities. As regards the judicial system, too. We're... This year, the Minister of Justice mentions the good results - the Council of Europe (CEPEJ) analysis says that things are quickly being looked at. Latvia is in normal place in Europe. In reality, however, the issue is not about the average, but about the fact that there are people in cases where there are lengthy processes... I myself sent a letter to the Minister of Justice on one civil case, which is still under consideration... are under review for eight years. The court must, in essence, determine which of the drivers has been guilty of an accident, but the injured pedestrian cannot receive compensation because the court cannot decide for two years, the hearings are postponed and carried forward. And then I have a question: who is chairing court hearings? Parties to the proceedings or a judge? Has the Minister of Justice and his people developed a procedure for the judge to conduct the hearing so that the participants do not conduct the proceedings? As a lawyer, considering all the benefits and disadvantages, I would say that: I do not want such a leader. In a normal job, a person is dismissed from work for failure to work. But believe it or not, I am a responsible person at the same time. I am a Member of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia and, as Mr Mežecka said, I also met people on holiday and spoke. We are discussing this issue. I asked you what to do. In fact, if we take the Minister of Justice out of office today, we will be able to put a new minister for four months. Who a good professional will leave his job to sit on the ministerial chair for four months, get acquainted with the situation and suddenly make radical reforms? The second option - yes, of course, there is such a practice in Latvia that either one of the ministers is imposed or the Prime Minister himself undertakes to perform this work. You know what a minister is doing to replace another minister - he signs the paper that the officials are preparing. I have a slightly different approach and think that the Minister of Justice has been very well criticised today. This criticism should worry him. ( Insight: “He doesn’t listen! ” ) Both he hears and writes... he has people listening and recording... Rather, if the National Association really defends its fellow Members and if Mr Rasnač wants to use the election campaign, there are four months - show how this criticism, how you will actually correct all these absences in four months. Well, it's good until the election is three months. Very good! Work well! Spend for three months, dissipate citizens' concerns that you are unable to deal with this situation. That is why I will take a break at the moment and will not vote on this matter. Let the coalition determine the fate of its colleague. Because I know that the opposition always remains in minority. That is why I would say that Mr. Rasnačs himself, if he believes that he is worthy of this post, is doing at least three months and shows what he has done! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U9	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U10	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, At the beginning of the 6th Saeima, I took the floor from the parliamentary tribunal and, when we debated the approval of Andra Šķele as Prime Minister, I also mentioned that, unfortunately, the Latvian Parliament... we are all on a very slippery road - the legal path of nihilism. Today, we are seeing quite openly that legal nihilism has won the country. The first vote that took place today was in favour of Mr Kaimiņa's extradition. He's not a friend, I'm not born, I'm not a brother, and his behaviour in this parliament absolutely does not satisfy me, but... Colleagues, are you even able to think about what you voted on? ( Internouncing call.) On the basis of what provision of the law is he called criminal? What is the nature of the charge? Each Member seems to be independent. We can discuss what has or has not been prepared by the Ministry of Justice. Is Dzintars Rasnačs, the Minister for Justice, responsible for what he has done? Undoubtedly. Is he there a first day or a first year? No, no! With variable success from the end of 1995. And for the last 10 years, the National Union has been responsible for this. What then hinders the order of the administrators - and not just that? It turns out that there is a struggle between coalitions to cover up one or the other. In the previous sitting of the Saeima, the word “Mafia” was often mentioned. Administrator Mafia and the like. I want colleagues to understand what Mafia is. The Mafia is when organized crime coexists with political power and laws, laws, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are adopted in favour of this organized crime. What is the situation today? Now it can be said that we are living in an absolutely semi-maphasic country where a narrow group makes decisions... discuss and take decisions favourable to it or to another person. Today, as the third minister, obviously there will still be Mr Asheraden here... And who then unites these three ministers - Mr Rasnač, Mr Gerhard and Mr Asheraden? And here we could still count a whole number of ministers - almost half of the government. We could mention the Bank of Latvia here. And then what is that connecting bond? Its connecting link is that in all these cases, in all afēres, the same persons are figuring. And we are happy and only tell us how good we are, what patriots we are! Here is a very passionate debate about the fight against corruption: come on, come on! But what happened when Parliament set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to combat corruption and address these issues? New... THE Old Unity delegated Wyko Spolite, who paralyzed the entire work of the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “It wasn’t at all!” ; the intermediate saying: “It was! It was!” ) We can mention many other issues. The Saeima Member suddenly declares that he has had a meeting with one or other person who has offered him a bribe. But that is not why applications are not written, and then we are surprised that we live in such a semi-maphasic country. And what is common to the Minister of Education and Science with these Ministers? It's very simple! He's... If he were not, he would have to think about it because the reforms can very well distract attention from the problems that we have in front of us. We can raise questions about russophobia, frighten that the Russians are coming, and continue this activity. Just what do we get to? Mr. Nunozole says, "Well, let's be the owner of our land!" Mr. Nunozole, unfortunately, the parliamentarians have not been in their country for a long time! We carry out orders and instructions from completely different persons. You know, I am fascinated by what the coalition says: “We were sitting here and thinking about how to vote.” Well, I would suggest another place where you can sit and think: there will be more time... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Where?” ) One or the other minister does not come to group meetings without visiting... Listen, who are you telling me?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you are unable to lead the government, act, go home, go away! Give space to those who can and can! We can mention many areas where we seem to have started, some of which Mr Curry has already mentioned, but... Six years ago, the State Revenue Service issued an opinion that losses in the field of security activities amount to 14 million lats each year (the euro will be more). In six years, we cannot bring the right regulatory framework together. What is the reason? Do we really have to think that responsible officials receive some money from these illegal payments? This list may also be continued on cross-border legislation. But if we're talking about those metastasis, let's remember where the beginning is, why are we investigators so hard, lighthouses, non-professional. The answer is very simple: the only higher education institution that prepared professionals was abolished. And then we wonder that the State Audit Office in its opinion on pre-trial investigation leads to the following conclusion: 40 percent of criminal proceedings in Latvia are terminated after the statute of limitations. What are we talking about, what efficiency?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And now tell me, the honourable coalition that you have done so well to vote for you to support. We have no reason to forget who has elected us and why we are here. ( Blowing.) Undoubtedly, today's coalition will not support Mr. Rasnač's depression. But is it really the only way to hear the minister from this troupe, to expect his opinions? And there is not so much talk about Mr Rasnač, there is also talk about other ministers. I have mentioned here an example of those people who are involved in a very large number of affluences. Let's see the last competition for the post of Director General of the State Revenue Service: once again the same ears are glowing. But the honourable coalition believes that nothing happens, that everything is fine. I'm sorry when I found a scapegoat. - Mr. Rasnač, and now he's getting away from him so that he doesn't catch someone else. Many ministers long had to resign! We need to leave and think about how to develop our country and our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U11	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U12	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! You understand, of course, that the next item on the agenda is, in fact, identical, so I am coming to speak now so that we do not have to repeat all the long debates and so that we can talk the matter fully. It is easy for me to talk about Mr Rasnačs' request for a depression, because I have already said, on several occasions, from this troupe that I think the entire government should resign. And, as I said, then there would be an opportunity for the present coalition to express different ideas that they could put forward with the new government. But the coalition doesn't use it! Then let us once again tell you about Mr Rasnač's actions and the problems there. In the speech by the coalition - and today we have heard it many times from individual Members, even a week ago - the fact that a blackmail campaign has been launched; that the requests for democracy are the only way in which the opposition can pay attention to itself. But, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the work of the entire government, as well as the work of Mr Rasnačs on an individual basis, we see that we do not have much to look for; you are giving us enough facts, arguments for us to see that the work of the government is not satisfactory. On populism, a week ago Hosam Abu Meri very passionately called the whole opposition populist. Dear Leader of the Unity Group, you could, however, make sure that the same or similar arguments were expressed by your group's colleagues - Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Mr Judine. Moreover, at a time when your colleagues spoke from the tribunal and, in my opinion, very convincingly showed problems in the justice system, you were on the phone. I told you, “Hos, please, listen to what Inese says, what Mr. Judine says!” “I already know all this, I can’t listen to it.” That's nice! So you already know, at the same time you call the opposition, you blame populism. In my opinion, this is on the principle - catch the populists! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “It’s already caught!” ) Let's go. The insolvency process as a whole. At the moment, we see common indicators: we are among the worst in this area, because only 13 cents are recovered from every euro we hope to recover in insolvency proceedings. At the same time, insolvency administrators have very impressive salaries, and journalists have also noticed this. Moreover, last week, when journalists tried to get to know all 235 declarations from insolvency administrators, 42 declarations could not be found at all. They were either corrected or not yet submitted. However, of the 193 declarations submitted, the income of Mārtiņš Bunkus, who was murdered at the end of May, clearly pays attention. Last year, his income from his economic activity and the services of a lawyer amounted to almost EUR 1 and a half million. His colleague Armands Rasa, who had attracted Bunka to liquidation of the “TRASTA COMARCBANKAS”, is also on the top. He earned 656 thousand euros last year. In addition, the declarations made by wealthy public officials show large cash savings. For example, the insolvency administrator Sergey Lukashenko holds EUR 308 thousand in cash, while the insolvency administrator Vīnkalns holds EUR 220 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen! The same ABLV Bank story... The Bank will not go into insolvency proceedings, but self-liquidation proceedings. For ABLV Bank to stop all its current business policy, there was a need for a signal from the outside, namely from the United States. Are we going to arrange insolvency proceedings in Latvia only when there will be a serious signal from the United States? I also think that the murder of one, even one, insolvency administrator is a sufficient signal to force the Minister of Justice to act. In my opinion, he should resign himself, and if he intends to start in the next Saeima elections, if he intends to be the Minister of Justice in the future... Regardless of personality, a person must show that he is able to take responsibility. In some European countries, public officials have even resigned because of the fact that they have paid... I don't remember a credit card, either for ice cream or for a small man with a payment card, because he didn't have his own at that time. But when it became public, the minister resigned. Well, one, as I said, one murder is, in my opinion, a very serious signal. One of the supporters of the National Alliance on social networks tried to say to me: well, I see, Yuri, yes, Mr Bunkus was killed and perhaps it is the proof that he was honest and that he was, here, the one who fought the whole mud of insolvency. You know, even if this is the case, but I think this does not mean overall arrangements in the area of insolvency. About the justice system in general. Last week, my colleague - the head of the Group of the Latvian Association of Regions - listed many problems very precisely. I would like to quote only one brief paragraph: “The fact that problems in the justice sector have been a long time ago is reflected both in the European Commission’s assessment and in the statements of the Latvian population, which are reflected in the results of the Eurobarometer survey. Industry representatives with the highest responsibility - judges - have also expressed concern about the crisis of reputation. It should be recalled that last year 14 judges of the Supreme Court signed a letter addressed to the Council for the Judiciary, in which they acknowledged that there was a crisis of the reputation of the judiciary caused by the problem of insolvency cases. It is important to realise that the low reputation of the judiciary in the eyes of the public does not promote confidence in the capacity of the judiciary to ensure justice and ultimately also confidence in the state.” Mr Rasnačs did not respond to this last time and, as we can see, he is not going to reply today either. Yesterday, however, he asked the question that he was included in the Russian "blacklist" to say that this is exactly what proved and confirming that our country's justice policy is in the right direction. Is it really Mr Rasnač's only argument that he has done something about the area of justice and insolvency administrators is that, you see, Russia has put him on the blacklist? Of course, this can be welcomed. However, in my opinion, this is not necessarily an argument. And so I hope, however, that Mr Rasnačs will still take advantage of the opportunity today, come to the table and answer at least some of the questions raised by both the opposition and the coalition. Because, as has already been mentioned, indeed Mr Rasnačs, the only minister from the entire current government did not come to the Latvian Association of Regions when we called for it. And, it turns out, some colleagues from Unity have also expressed their opinion that they are unable to get answers to the questions they have asked. So I very much call, Mr Rasnačs, to come and answer some questions, otherwise I have no reason not to vote 'no', that is to say, vote 'no' to your resignation. And I also call on Mr Cura not to be afraid and to express a responsible opinion, otherwise it seems that you are starting to listen to the leadership of your next group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U13	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U14	Hello, brothers and sisters! I would like to join Mr. Adamson in relation to Mr. Kaimiņš. I think it really is now, so to speak, taken to amazement. Because the parliamentary immunity is the parliamentary immunity - for all of us. And it is not to be used against Members' state equipment. And we're not even familiar with this situation... with what Mr. Neighbour will be punished for. We all supported. You're... Have you ever thought that someone specializes him as a hero, a victim? And from this thing, from the fact that we voted in favour of his extradition, he will only gain. Just because this thing is just falsified. Yes! It's about Mr. Kaimiņš. Go on. To remove the Minister of Justice from office four months before the elections - that is pointless. We are well aware that Mr Rasnačs is a true compromise for democracy, for which some are hundreds of percent convinced that he is not harmful to the system. Waiting and Raivi, it is in your interest to put in place a system of justice so that it serves the interests of the country's citizens, the interests of the country, not those of some who live on it. Yes, the National Association is responsible for the injustice, impunity, self-esteem, indifference, murder of officials and enterprises that have been "legally abducted". Responsible, that's it! As I said today at the Legal Commission, responsible for my apathy, indifference, unwillingness to arrange the justice system! I understand that democracy is the power of money: there is money - there is voter votes, there is no money - there is no voter votes. And I call on the National Association to come with amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties), not apathically, indifferently to see how the fates of people, including children, are being raped in the justice system! Not only the justice system, but also the entire public administration, must be organised to serve the interests of the people of the country, the welfare of the country, and I call for this pointless debate on the Ministerial Demission to be completed. We are rather passionate about putting the system in order and putting it in order to serve the interests of the country's citizens and the state's well-being! Dear, here is not the “dog method” of virtue carrying, I also have a connection with Stroller Street 9. And also to your - nothing personal - just money! - boy has a close connection with Strielnieki Street 9. And when I talk about a “dog way” guy and many others, I would like to say one very important thing to our country that only when we all understand that the organizer of the country's life and work must be an experienced, knowledgeable organizer, manager, work planner and controller, and not an attractive guy or a pleasant person, will start to improve the administration of our country. We are ending this pointless, multi-dementary debate! It's about to be next and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “You’re talking for the second time!” ) We are building our reputation better in the eyes of citizens and putting the public administration system in order to serve the public, the welfare interests of the state! We're good owners in our land! We believe we succeed!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U15	Name of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U16	Dear President, Dear Bureau! Dear Members and honourable Members, There are three things that I would like to inform you about at the moment, and I will deal with them without delay for a long time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Viļums: “We’re not rushing anywhere!” ) First of all, honourable opponents, all questions and all answers you can ask and receive. Supporters - welcome to the opening of the Solvency Control Service on 2 July! There we will be able to talk friendlyly about all the things that have hurt you and where you have mixed myths with the truth. Of course, we are doing everything to disperse these myths, because today too, unfortunately, I have once again heard talk of administrators working in the administration and that the insolvency administration is responsible for the banking sector and much more. First of all, I kindly invite you to read our website as well as the Solvency Control Service website! The other thing I want to talk about is the higher office of the ministry, the heads of subordinate institutions, the people, the top-level professionals. They are all patriots of Latvia, they are patriots of the Ministry of Justice, they are patriots of the industry, and the turnover of personnel here at the highest level (up to the director of the department) is zero. Why? Because we have great cooperation, we have a great team and each of these high-level people knows what and when and how he needs to do. Name another ministry, where it would be at such a high, perfect level! The Prime Minister has also welcomed this. Thank you also to my staff from this troupe and I very much hope that they will not be drawn to another sector, to another sector or to another sector or to the private sector, because their contribution to the justice system is unmeasurable. And as we can, we try to appreciate and motivate. Finally, I would like to say the greatest words of thanks to President Vējonis for supporting both the implementation and continuation of reforms, the Speaker of the Saeima, Ināra Mūrniece, for supporting the continuation of reforms and also the Prime Minister, who is chairing the entire government team, for supporting them. We're going on! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U17	Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U18	Mr. Rasnač! You did not use the opportunity again and did not try to answer all or at least part of the questions! You were sent to July 2, when there would be a social conversation at a cup of coffee or a glass of water. It's not serious, Mr. Rasnač! While abstracting from everything that has happened, you should at least say here: "Behold, I have four months before the next government is drawn up, and my action plan is as follows!" And by dot. As you cannot offer it, I will be voting in favour of your request for resignation and call on others to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U19	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U20	Hello, colleagues! I listened to this debate, and I felt so strange. If OICs were to be placed instead of insolvency administrators (interim call: ‘Yes!’ ) would meet about the same story (Dep. H.Abu Mary: “Keep OIC until tomorrow!” ), which we have already heard: how the fight against all this is going and that "we are already working, the necessary rules have been developed... Colleagues, this does not make you think about what is happening in our country today? That is obvious. Irrespective of what has been said here, it is clear that this request will be rejected - just as tomorrow's request for distrust to the Minister for Economic Affairs will be rejected. Why?Oh, no, no, no, Because it is obvious that democracy in this country, Latvia, has been stolen, it no longer belongs to the Latvian people. There is no democratic facility in Latvia! There is a feudal, quasi-fadal facility in Latvia, where the whole country is divided into sovereign states. Each political clan has its own niche and they embarrass themselves. The main thing is not to interfere with each other. And it's happening... and do whatever they want. And to talk about the rule of law, to talk about democracy here is completely unnecessary. Please prove it today with your vote. Let us follow with interest.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U21	The name of Member John Adamson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U22	Dear colleagues, One thing I forgot to say earlier, but I want to draw your attention to. Last Wednesday, we held a meeting of the Appeals Commission, during which we once again dealt with OIC issues. ( Internouncing call.) And I call on the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister, because I believe that you are a team: perhaps from this troupe you can give an explanation, which is a "fair violation of the law", because that concept is a figurine in a document signed by the Minister of Economics. And when asked how honest it has been paid for these violations of the law, it turns out that 2.4 billion! Let us then consider whether Mr. Zarins is right or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U23	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on distrust to Dzintars Rasnačs, Minister of Justice (No 739/Lm12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 41, for - 9. The draft decision is rejected. On the agenda - decision on expression of distrust to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs (No 740/Lm12). Does anyone want to speak on behalf of the applicants? No, no! Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on distrust to Dzintars Rasnačs, Minister of Justice (No 740/Lm12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 42, refraining from - 8. The draft decision is rejected. On the agenda - draft decision “On Release of the Rūja from the position of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Kurzeme District Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U24	Dear colleagues, On June 11, in the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, the draft decision on the removal from office of the Land Register Division of Kurzeme district court Sniete Rūja was reviewed. In its application to the Director of the Court Administration, Savė Rūja asks him to be removed from office of a judge at his own wish from July 2, 2018. On this basis, and on the basis of the Law on Judicial Power, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported this draft decision. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I am inviting to release Svote Rūja from the office of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Kurzeme District Court from July 2, 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U25	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of the Rūja from the office of a judge of the Land Registers Division of Kurzeme District Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Noras Pakules as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U26	On 11 June this year, at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, the draft decision “On the approval of the Noras Pakules as a judge of a district (city) court” was also reviewed. On 24 September 2015, the Saeima appointed Nora Pakulis as a judge of a district (city) court. The Council for the Judiciary, based on the law “On Judicial Power”, imposed on her the duties of a judge in the Dobele district court. On March 1, 2018, in the context of judicial reform, Nora Pakule was recognised as a judge of Zemgale district court (Dobele). Judge Nora Packule will have served as a judge for three years on 23 September 2018. In order to improve her qualification, the judge has participated in 18 seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia, as well as in the training “The Protection of Children’s Rights” organised by the Judicial Administration and the Latvian Municipal Training Centre. Nora Packule looks at all categories of civil cases and performs the duties of an investigating judge in the absence of an investigating judge. Positive feedback from the Chair of Dobele district court and from the judge of Zemgale regional court has been received for work of the judge. It is indicated that the quality and results of the handling of cases are good. The judge is able to organise his work and composition, she has a good legal language. The decisions are sufficiently detailed, legally justified and motivated. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of the judge of Zemgale district court Noras Pakules and delivered a positive opinion for the approval of the judge without limitation of the term of office. In view of this, the members of the Legal Commission of the Saeima have unanimously supported the draft decision. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to confirm Nora Pakuulis as a district (city) court judge without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of the Noras Pakules as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinions of the Requesting Commission On the agenda - request from Member Edwards Smiltēna, Jurs Viļuma, Jānis Ruka, Rihards Melgailis, Mārtiņš Šica, Vara Krūmiņa, Inga Bite, Nellija Kleinberga, Sylvia Šymfas and Arvidas Platoperas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards, about undue waste of state funds of the Latvian Centre for Environment, Geology and Meteorology in procurement. On behalf of the Commission of Petitions - Member Inguna Riena.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U28	Dear colleagues, The Panel examined the request made by the Members of the Saeima Edwards Smiltēna, Juris Viļuma, Jānis Ruka, Rihards Melgālis, Mārtiņa Šica, Vara Krūmiņa, Inga Bite, Nellija Kleinberga, Silvija Šimfas and Arvīds Platoperas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards, about undue waste of state funds of the Latvian Centre for Environment, Geology and Meteorology in procurement. On the basis of Rule 126(3) of the parliamentary roll and seven votes in favour and four abstentions, the members of the committee found the request to be partially admissible.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U29	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U30	Good morning, colleagues! The amount requested is seven million. Seven million! Do you think that's a lot or a little? That's a lot if we give the lecture, colleagues. By dividing seven million euro coins into one euro, it is 52 tonnes, and this stack would take almost nine cubic metres. It's about the same... if we put these boxes above each other to the ceiling. That is too much, colleagues, so that it can be physically tolerated even by all the Members of the Saeima together. Each one of a hundred, one and a half tonnes. That's too much. In the traditional €10 banknotes of the nation, they are 700 kilograms, or 1.2 cubic metres of money. It's about the same as this parliamentary troupe. Imagine that money shupe is as big as a triple. That's a lot when we look at the public benefit that this amount of money can bring. For this amount, which would probably be wasted, we can pay 22 000 average pensions. We know that the average pension is EUR 320. Or seven and a half thousand average wages in the country - in the amount of 926 euros. We have a problem with demographics. We're dying. Children are born less. With this money, we can grant a birth grant of EUR 421 to 16,6 000 children's parents. About 20 thousand children are born in Latvia every year. If we distribute these seven million purely mathematically, then for this money we can give every child born in Latvia a gift of 350 euros a year. That would then be in addition to the EUR 421 that they are receiving today. This amount is equivalent to restoring 77 kilometres of gravel road or 21 kilometres of asphalt. Colleagues, we just knew that there was not enough money to raise salaries for educators. Here, too, it would have been very useful. Seven million - this is about the same as the introduction of widows' pensions, for which we broke into the Saeima during the entire previous session. The Minister for Finance has also made it clear that the future Member States, which will decide on the national budget, must take account of the fact that the fiscal space will be negative. There will be no new initiatives; it will not be possible to support them, because there will not be enough money. Can the government respond to such public scandals: “Forgive us neither this thing nor anyone else!” Is that so? Colleagues! Seven million - it is also too little to gain the attention of the government within a month. A scandal is reflected in the media, but it is ignored. The only parliamentary group that responded to this waste is the Latvian Association of Regions. They responded to this injustice by submitting a request to the Minister. There was a demand commission meeting. These purchases were reflected in the media. The Minister did not even come to the Panel, and the representatives he sent were almost half an hour late. Even the head of the commission became quite angry. It was only after this issue had been unexpectedly supported by the Request Commission that it received partial support. Only then did the Minister act and suspend these purchases. Colleagues! I remember the recent times when I was a parliamentary secretary in several ministries. There was a 300 thousand euros scandal about glass eels. That's the case, isn't it? This case was muttered in the media for months. He was suspended from office and left office. The scandal of the project “Skolas.lv” involves three million. At that time, Marty Seile was a minister. Applications were submitted to the Office of the Prosecutor General, all material on the case was prepared and submitted. Three million - with this kind of money you can do a lot! For specific purchases. All of this has a single scheme. Look at the Ministry of Transport! The procurement carried out by “State Roads of Latvia” ended with a scandal, which stirred up in the media at the beginning of this year. Planned price - 3.5 million. The first bidder, who offered a similar amount, was rejected, and the one who came with the offer by 8.5 million. The specific procurement for which the request is made shall be made subject to the prior approval of the contracting authority. Planned amount - 1.5 million, winning offer - 8.5. The price of seven million! The study of this case is going on, and we also find a procurement with an estimated amount of 4.5; the procurement has not yet been completed, but the tenderer who offers 23 million, i.e. 18 million more than planned, somehow coincides with those entrepreneurs who have been in two of my purchases. One template everywhere! In the context of these purchases, there appears to be a real, substantial conflict of interest between the person who assessed the price compliance and the winners. In the inquiry commission, we invited the representatives of the Ministry to speak and answer the question: “Where does the money come from for these purchases?” Seven million... charging of the amount... 8.5... There's one more, maybe about 23... They admit: there's no money at all! There were two million accumulated. The management of the Latvian Centre for Environment, Geology and Meteorology explained this. So how is it - there's no money, but there's public procurement?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is this another “smart pond story”? Makes purchases, but there's no money. The object is very grateful to such a thing, because it's radioactive, it's dangerous just like a smart pond... And then every year, to guarantee business, demands money, because, you see, this is a dangerous object. Is that so? The Association of the Regions of Latvia submitted amendments to the Public Procurement Act, which provides that if the purchase exceeds 50 per cent of the initially expected contract price, the procurement should be cancelled. This draft law is in second reading. But, look, Roman speaker, lawyer and senator Gay Cornelius Tacit said: “The more corrupt the state, the more numerous its number of laws is.” And we know that society is not tolerant to the fact that we generate new and new restrictions, norms and laws. Colleagues, how do you understand the concept of "political responsibility"? How do you perceive the word “responsible”? Think about it! This results from the word “answer” - not passive action, but response. This is better described by the English word responsiveness (Dep. A.Bērzins: “Oh, yeah! Translate, please!’ ), which originated from two words of ability to respond - the ability to respond. If we look at the dictionary, the word "respond" is translated "answer or reaction" - so active action, not passive viewing. The Latvian Association of Regions acted responsibly and reacted. Unfortunately, at the moment, the only one is absolutely the one! We can fight against the waste of money with new and new amendments to the law, but there is also common sense and the integrity of every politician, respect for his people and society, against the money paid in taxes of his people and country, as well as common sense in the application of existing laws and regulations. In the request we clearly state that Paragraph 230 of Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No.107 “Purchasing procedure and procedure of tender procedure” states: “... the contracting entity may terminate the announced procurement procedure or the tender procedure at any time if it has an objective justification.” In each of the scandals in the media – both on “Latvian State Road” procurements and in this case – the Management of the Procurement Monitoring Office indicates that such overcharged, too expensive purchases should be stopped. This must be done by the purchasers, the ministers responsible. How does the Association of Latvian Regions perceive this process with demand? Colleagues! The overall feeling is not good, because we know very well: support for political parties has fallen - they are trusted in only a small part of society - five per cent. Every scandal that the government responds to undermines this trust. At the moment, there are well-prepared forces that try to turn Latvians into their own lists, which will expand a powerful campaign, which will probably offer even a change of course, the change of course that is the basis of the 4th May decisions... or against this decision and invites you to look more eastward. Colleagues! In this way, without reacting apathetic view of such purchases and waste, we gave arguments - golden arguments! - opponents and undermine public confidence in government, coalition and political parties. The outstanding Latvian man, Boļeslavs Sloskans, said: “Neither enemies destroy the people, but the people destroy themselves when their morals decline.” What Mr Sanskan said can be attributed to the response or unanswered by politicians, the response to injustice, waste and corruption. Colleagues! Those who want to protect Latvian Latvia, those who want to see legal Latvia, those who want us to own our own country - how will you achieve it, how will you protect it? You must fight for these values even more aggressively and the more inside - where you see them closest. Ask each of you today a question: can you afford such cases and ignores now, in these circumstances, when the elections on 6 October will be so decisive? We see that coalition parties no longer have a majority in support of society. Can you afford it - do not respond or act responsibly? Colleagues! In the Commission, two members from the coalition voted in favour of partial support for the request. It is a great surprise that the member of the Board of Unity Ķirsis said: “The committee responsible is composed of two least experienced members of the Saeima - Astrid Harju and Artis Gustovskis - who have simply allowed emotions in the committee vote. A human error, to say so.” End of quote. Maybe it's not like that! Maybe it's like these people... not the least experienced, but when these people saw this madness, seeing these arguments and the inability of the ministry to answer, it was clear what they were talking about and that they acted not according to the coalition agreement but according to their conscience. For our part, therefore, we would like to thank those two Members who, by their very nature, went into the matter and voted in favour of this request. Colleagues! For the first time in the history of this Saeima, a request has received support from the Commission. I call for responsible action and this request to be supported so that it is a signal and a lesson for everyone in whose neighbourhoods there are millions that we can use to the benefit of society more effectively. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U31	So we will continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Notifications. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U32	Colleagues! I remind you that the meeting of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government will take place now, in the interim, in the premises of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U33	The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U34	Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission will meet at 12.05 on the premises of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U35	The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U36	Colleagues from the Legal Commission! Meeting of the Legal Commission after five minutes at the premises of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U37	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U38	Colleagues! The Education, Culture and Science Commission will meet at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U39	Name to Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U40	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Inesis Boķis, Aleksandrs Jakimovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Atis Lejiņš, Aivars Meija, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Upenieks and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U41	Interruption until 12.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U42	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the sitting of the Saeima on 21 June 2018, after a break. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Opinion of the Appeals Board On the agenda - request from Member Edwards Smiltēna, Jurs Viļuma, Jānis Ruka, Rihards Melgailis, Mārtiņš Šica, Vara Krūmiņa, Inga Bite, Nellija Kleinberga, Sylvia Šymfas and Arvidas Platoperas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards, about undue waste of state funds of the Latvian Centre for Environment, Geology and Meteorology in procurement. We are continuing the debate. Name of Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhard.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U43	Dear President of the Saeima. Highly honored Members of the Saeima and those present! First of all, I would like to remind you that until the beginning of 2015 Salaspils reactor was to be transferred to the ownership of the University of Latvia, as indicated in the draft order drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers in December 2011. As of April 2015, the reactor was taken over in its management by the Latvian Centre for Environment, Geology and Meteorology under the supervision of VARAM. With the acquisition of the facility in 2015, the priority was the safe management of the Salaspils nuclear reactor, including carrying out urgent work to reduce the pollution risk in the nuclear reactor area. VARAM also sought solutions to attract the necessary funding to eliminate the reactor. Radioactive waste storage RADONS and Salaspils nuclear reactor are unique objects in Latvia that require specific knowledge, international requirements and attract specialists from abroad. Consequently, planning the costs of dismantling the nuclear reactor and building the tank is a complex and time-consuming process. It is important to emphasise that the procurements for the extension of RADONS and the liquidation of the Salaspils nuclear reactor have been carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act. It is the public procurement procedure that is the way to get the most financially advantageous tenders to carry out the necessary works. In addition, compliance of public procurement procedures with the legal requirements is supervised by the Procurement Monitoring Office. It should be noted that the public procurement procedures for the development and construction of a new storage and storage facility for radioactive waste in RADONS have been carried out twice. As a result of the tender procedure announced in December 2016, two service providers received two offers to carry out the necessary construction and construction works of the construction of the radioactive waste tank, but only one of the tenders received met the conditions of the tender. In view of the fact that the amount of the tender was significantly above the available funding as well as the threshold set by the European Union for the announcement of international procurement, this procurement ended without result. In January 2018, a new international procurement was announced. Only one tender was received, the total cost of which varied by around EUR 2 million compared to the previous tender. In order to be convinced of the reasonableness of the costs included in the offers, a certified building expert was involved, who carried out an evaluation of the tender submitted and gave an opinion on the compliance of the costs with the performance of the work. Contrary to the incorrect information from the mass media, it should be stressed that no agreement has been concluded to date either on the extension of RADONS or on the decommissioning of the Salaspils nuclear reactor. There are therefore no fundamental issues and accusations about the waste of state budget funds or unthinkable use. Taking into account that the funds available in the state budget are insufficient, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, following the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 December 2017, is currently preparing information for submission in the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to remind you that, at the end of last year, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to instruct the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development after re-proclaiming a new radioactive waste tank and long-term storage for the development and construction of a construction project in the radioactive waste storage facility RADONS to inform the Cabinet of Ministers about the current costs of procurement. If the funds available for this purpose are exceeded, please ask the Cabinet of Ministers for permission to use the funding for the disposal of the Salaspils nuclear reactor for the development and construction of a new radioactive waste tank and a long-term storage facility. In addition, in December 2017, information was also provided to the Cabinet of Ministers on the actual costs of expanding the radioactive waste storage RADONS, which can significantly exceed the available funding. Based on the fact that the amount of tenders received as a result of public procurement is significantly higher than the available funding, VARAM is currently offering the Cabinet of Ministers to decide to terminate both tenders, instead performing design for both projects. This will make it possible to obtain up-to-date control over the implementation of the necessary works. It should be borne in mind that previously the cost of work was calculated in 2003 and the cost update was carried out in 2013. However, when assessing the tenders received, it must be concluded that the actual costs for the implementation of the two projects will be higher than previously foreseen. As regards the dismantling of the Salaspils nuclear reactor, it should be noted, however, that initially (as early as 2004) planned costs would increase to EUR 24 million by removing the reactor area to the so-called green lawn. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the Latvian Centre for Environment, Geology and Meteorology is working with the highest responsibility and has provided all necessary activities for safe maintenance of the Salaspils nuclear reactor and assessment and prevention of pollution risks. Buildings and equipment are regularly monitored and environmental monitoring is carried out both in the reactor’s premises and on its territory. Both projects - both Salaspils nuclear reactor and RADON radioactive waste storage facilities - need to be implemented, because it is not possible to dispose of the Salaspils nuclear reactor without the extension of the RADON radioactive waste storage facility. Despite the maintenance work of the nuclear reactor, it must be understood that the nuclear reactor cannot be left in its current state, and it must be disposed of in order not to create risks for the environment in the future. The VARAM priority is and will be the safe management of radioactive materials until the dismantling of the Salaspils nuclear reactor and the construction of the RADON radioactive waste storage facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U44	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U45	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister told us very much that no agreement had been signed... Indeed, thank God for not signed. And I have to conclude that these agreements have not been signed, perhaps precisely because the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia actively acted and highlighted this issue. What the Minister has just said from this troubling that the Cabinet of Ministers is being asked to suspend this procurement is exactly what we, the Commission on Petitions, have called for by a majority. In other words, the demand was partly supported. I mean, that's the part... I can quote the very end of it: “We request to stop the waste of public funds,... on the basis of Article 230 of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No.107 “Procedure of Procurement Procedures and Procedures of Competitions”, where, inter alia, it is stipulated that the contracting entity may terminate the announced procurement procedure or the tender at any time if it has objective grounds.” Since objective justifications have been presented, I call on both opposition and position members to support what the Minister has just said - that this procurement will be suspended - and to support this request... that part which is directly related to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U46	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U47	Minister! It is a pity that you were not at today's meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit. For the other Members, there will, of course, be another request tomorrow: the reallocation of appropriations. The EUR 400 000 earmarked for the decommissioning of the nuclear reactor will be directed towards filming. This is certainly a very specific way to survive this phase, when the project lacks resources; in the meantime, it can support the film industry. I understand that one ministry managed by the National Association shares funds with the other ministry... And how to understand this absurdity when we're told from the platform here that the project lacks funds, the project is stopped... Is that so? Thus, the competition will be suspended, it will be reopened, and the design of the construction will be started, and then it will go to the construction. But what's inside -- their money can be used to take cinema... I think that no careful and caring host, because he has a delay in implementing any project or the planned costs are lower, but the actual costs may be higher, in this situation the money will not be spent on any third project that was not planned at all, so that then next year... Because it's going to take money for the project anyway. And it is said that any money that has not been spent this year is as lost and cannot be spent next year. You all understand that money does not go anywhere in the Treasury unless it spends anything this year. In reality, when assessing the overall state budget situation, it only alleviates and reduces the amount of debt or deficit in one year, as the implementation of the project as such will be necessary next year. So, Minister, your speech was little of the truth in the sense that... I would like to emphasise that it is not a careful and caring host's action: if the project is delayed, spend this money on some other additional projects. This is for your information, because tomorrow you will be able to make a friendly decision on how to support the film industry for the money of the nuclear reactor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U48	I closed the debate. Mrs. Reyben, is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? So it's not. Dear colleagues, As this request has been partially accepted by the Request Commission, I would like to inform you of the procedure. First, we will vote in favour of the request made by Members to the Panel and, if it is not rejected, then we will vote in favour of the request formulated by the Panel, which was partly acceptable. So we will first vote in favour of the request made by Members. That's the procedure. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Edwards Smiltēna, Juris Viļuma, Jānis Ruka, Rihards Melgālis, Mārtiņš Šica, Vara Krumina, Inga Bite, Nellija Kleinberga, Silvija Šimfas and Arvīds Platoperas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards about the unjustified waste of state funds of the Latvian Centre for Environment, Geology and Meteorology in procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. And since this request has been rejected, we must vote in favour of the request formulated by the Request Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the request made by the Panel for environmental protection and regional development Minister Kaspars Gerhards! Please vote mode! ( Milestones.) Please get the result! For - 30, for - 46, for - 1. The request is rejected. On the agenda - Member Ivars Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Aleksandrs Jakimova, Janis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Janis Adamsons, Sergeja Mirska and Ivana Ribakov's request to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden "On the inability of the Minister of Economics to justify the application of the Cabinet of Ministers regulation No. 262 "Regulations on the production of electricity using renewable energy sources and pricing procedures" on self-consumption. The request on behalf of the Commission is made by Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U49	Highly honored Saeima! The request board examined the request made by colleagues Zarina, Potapkin, Artūra Rubika, Raimonda Rubika, Jakikova, Tutina, Dolgopolova, Adamson, Mirska and Ribakov for electricity generation using renewable energy sources and the efficiency and reasonableness of the application of pricing procedures for self-consumption. The Commission heard requests from the Minister for Economic Affairs, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the official of the Department for Sustainable Energy Policy to find out how the Ministry of Economics determines the effectiveness of application in terms of self-consumption. The Minister for Economics explained (I quote) that ‘no regulatory act so far explicitly regulates the application and control of the self-consumption requirement for electricity for plants operating under Regulation No 262’. ( End quoted) In addition to other conditions relating to the provision of self-consumption of electricity by means of amendments to Regulation No 262, a remote control mechanism was introduced; this control can be implemented by analysing the information submitted by economic operators in their annual accounts. Taking into account that the amount of electricity required for each power plant varies to ensure its operation, the only clear conclusion regarding the violation (according to annual report data) can only be in a situation where the amount of electricity sold in the annual report in the framework of the mandatory procurement of the power plant is equal to the amount of electricity produced. According to sub-paragraph 60.2 of Regulation No 262, the Ministry of Economics shall send a warning to the economic operator about the possibility of losing the right to sell electricity from renewable energy sources within the framework of mandatory procurement. If the Ministry finds that the power plant is not provided or that during the annual reporting period the use of the electricity produced is not ensured for the purpose of ensuring the operation of the power plant in accordance with the requirements of Regulation No.262, the Ministry will issue an appropriate warning of any violation in accordance with this Regulation. Our colleague Ivars Zarins wanted answers to his questions also from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Legal Bureau of the Saeima explains that it does not provide official explanations of the law or assessment of compliance of the activities of state institutions, therefore the reply of the Law Office can be considered as a general opinion on application of the norms of the law, and the opinion expressed by the Law Office is not binding on other persons. The Legal Bureau concludes that although the legislator has given the executive power, i.e. the Ministry of Economic Affairs, a wide margin of discretion, the efficiency and legitimacy of the application of the law in terms of self-consumption... the Ministry of Economics can be exercised at its discretion and is authorised by the first sentence of the first paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on Public Administration. Finally, the discussion revealed that the Ministry of Economy uses the principles of good governance and effectively applies them through Regulation 262 on the basis of self-consumption. The Ministry initially warns and then penalties economic operators of minor infringements. For example, if the counter is not changed, the warning allows the operator to do so within three months. On the other hand, if the cogeneration unit sells only electricity but not heat, then, as the Minister pointed out, the licence is withdrawn for such economic operators and they can no longer continue their activities. The Commission listened to the replies provided by the Minister for Economic Affairs and decided not to support the request made by the honourable opposition. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U50	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U51	Thank you to the rapporteur for the referendum. I must point out, however, that in essence you have already spoken about the second request. But as far as this request is concerned, we will go through the points. So what exactly is this demand? This demand, colleagues, is very significant. This request demonstrates that the OIC is a politically covered area which is still ongoing. And today you will have the opportunity to prove it by your vote. And I'm sure you'll do it. That is, what is the demand for? The request concerns an obvious unlawful act of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which the Ministry of Economics has itself confirmed in writing by the Saeima. And today, too, Mr. Spolitis, from the troupe here, confirmed this... what the Minister for Economics said. What is the nature of the matter? That is, it's about so-called self-consumption. Section 30 of the Electricity Market Act states very clearly that only that part of the electricity that is left over from the power plant’s own consumption, thus surplus from own consumption, can be sold in the framework of compulsory procurement, thus at the increased tariff. This means that the Ministry of Economics had to monitor this provision. The Ministry of Economy in its rules... The Cabinet of Ministers Regulations... He decided that it would not comply with this rule and explained why it would not do it: “Because we hadn’t always done it, we should not start to control it immediately. Because if we start to control it right away, then we will have to take away the permissions!” Colleagues! Thus, the Ministry of Economics makes it clear that it is in breach of the law; that this requirement has been in force for 10 years, and that the Ministry of Economics has not fulfilled it for 10 years; the Ministry is aware that it has not been fulfilled; it is aware that economic operators are frauding that they do not comply with this requirement. And so that they should not withdraw their permissions, now that they are checked, the Ministry will not examine them, but the Cabinet Regulations will illegally state that all will be implemented only after a year – on 1 July 2019. And so in the direct text, the Saeima confirms this in writing. Because it's about... I'm going to read it specifically to be on the vernacular. What does the Ministry of Economics say? ‘ Given that such a requirement is linked to the conditions for obtaining aid and maintaining the minimum right to procurement’, it is therefore recognised that this requirement is essential to maintain that authorisation and to remain in the shelter ‘and may require time and resources to contribute to the technological adjustment of the power plant to meet such conditions, a transitional period was granted which would also be justified in the case of the initiation of proceedings as sufficient time to ensure compliance with that requirement’. The Ministry itself confirms in writing that this requirement has not been complied with and we now need to give them a year in order to allow them to pass. Instead of starting to check these stations immediately and to cancel the permits for all fraudsters, and thus solve the OIC field, the Ministry of Economics tells the general public the fairy tales: ‘You see, there are no legal instruments that I can handle with OIC.’ In fact, this confidence is quite the opposite of what the Ministry of Economics says. It recognises the legitimate expectation and the rule of law only in relation to the beneficiaries of generous aid. They are protected by the Ministry in all possible ways, such as saint cows. Everything relating to the rule of law, which should be respected in relation to the rest of society, is irrelevant at all; it can even be illegally sought to circumvent what the Ministry of Economics has also done in this case and has even confirmed in writing. Therefore, to me, my fellow Members, it is completely inconceivable how you can not support this request today, because the Ministry of Economics has itself confirmed that it is acting illegally. And that's what this demand is about! Go on. Mr Spolitis, you mentioned the opinion of the Legal Bureau. I don't know which particular phrase you drew from the overall context... Indeed, as you said, the opinion of the Legal Bureau is not binding on third parties and so on. I asked for an opinion simply so that it could not be said, as the Minister for Economics once said at the Panel meeting that Zarins was dealing with demagogy. But when he was asked a question, no matter where this demagogia was located, the minister was unable to answer. And that's why, in order not to have this empty, unwarranted speech, which is already tired of listening to the OIC... because it is usually argued that Zarins is either “Gazprom” agent and the enemy of national energy and therefore doesn’t need to listen to him, or that Zarins is said to be engaged in demagogy. But when the Minister is asked to prove this specifically and to justify it, because for his part, I are putting forward concrete and substantiated facts, legal provisions and quote specific things, the Minister for Economics has nothing to say. Therefore, the opinion of the Legal Office was also sought, which refers precisely to the same point. And I had asked the Saeima Bureau to have it available to every Member and you can read for yourself this absurdity. In my opinion, anyone who works with us in the Saeima should have so much legal understanding to understand that the norms of the law are superior to the norms of the Cabinet of Ministers and the government cannot amend and say by its rules what the law has to do or not to do. You can't cancel the norms of the law! But the Minister of Economics, with his officials, tried to do this in full seriousness at the meeting of the Committee on Petitions. And the Appeals Commission took this as justified in all seriousness. Colleagues, now, excuse me for what you're doing.Is that so? I therefore say that this vote will be a very visible example and a testament to society as a whole as to whether it is politically covered or not, or whether it is still ongoing or not. I invite you to think when you vote on it. You have now heard all these facts. There is no need to be particularly wise and even not to go into this case. There is a very simple principle. For 10 years, the law has set out what needs to be done. The Ministry of Economy has stated in writing that it has not fulfilled this requirement. The Ministry knows that these norms are violated and issues regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which provide an opportunity to fail to comply with this norm for another year, so that it can be circumvented. And why is this necessary? This is not just about this one year. To understand what the price of this question is... The previous request concerned seven million. Here, in order to understand you, for stations from renewable energy sources, the self-consumption rate is between 10 and 30 percent. Now you take the hundreds of millions that are paid out, and calculate how big is this area that is covered in this way. And why is such an important nuance in the aforementioned regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers needed? It says that the self-consumption will be examined in the future under this new connection scheme. And if we are now giving businessmen a year to correct this inconsistency, switch, make this new connection scheme, it means that, in accordance with these rules, this connection can be checked... This own consumption will be checked under this new scheme. This means that historically these frauds, which have been for 10 years and for which it would not only be justified to withdraw the authorisation, but also to request recovery of the aid unlawfully received... That means that hundreds of million more could be earned here at the expense of this story. The Ministry of Economics is very active in trying to cover up and in full seriousness in its working group says: “There are no instruments. We cannot do anything." Colleagues, think about what is going on before you press the button to vote on this request! I call on us to support this request and give the people, at least, the hope that Parliament is prepared to work with this OIC area at political level and to prevent it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U52	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) So no. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Aleksandra Jakimova, Janis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Janis Adamsons, Sergeja Mirska and Ivana Ribakova's request to the Minister of Economy Arvilas Aseradens On the Inability of the Minister of Economics to justify the application of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation No. 262 “Regulations on the Production of Electricity by Renewable Energy, and the Procedure of Prices” regarding Self-Consumption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 44, for - 5. The request is rejected. On the agenda - Member Ivars Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Aleksandrs Jakimova, Janis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Janis Adamsons, Sergeja Mirska and Ivana Ribakov's request to the Minister of Economics Arvils Aseradens "On the strange grounds of the Minister of Economics in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 262 "Regulations on the production of electricity by means of renewable energy sources and price-setting procedures" regarding the "indecently committed violation". The request on behalf of the Commission is made by Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U53	Highly honored Saeima! The request was examined by Member Zarina, Potapkin, Raimonds Rubika, Arthur Rubika, Jakimova, Tutina, Dolgopolova, Adamson, Mirska and Ribakov to the Minister of Economics “On the strange justification of the Minister of Economy for Cabinet of Ministers regulations No 262 “Regulations on the production of electricity by means of renewable energy sources and pricing procedures” in relation to “a fair violation”. After hearing the Minister for Economic Affairs and representatives of the Ministry, we have found that regulations No. 262, which, Mr Zarins, are not established by the Ministry, but adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers (a small derogation), are functioning and fulfil certain objectives. Most of the issues arose from the use of the word "fair" in communication between my colleague Ivars Zariņš and the Ministry of Economics. The members of the Ministerial Commission both in writing and later orally confirmed that punishment within the framework of Regulations No.262 is clear and unambiguous. For example, if the counter is not changed, a warning from the Ministry of Economics allows the economic operator to do so within three months of the date of the warning. In turn, as the Minister pointed out, if the cogeneration unit sells electricity only, but not heat, the licence is withdrawn from such a businessman and it can no longer continue its activities. As regards the concept of “fairness”, the representatives of the Ministry of Economics and the Minister acknowledged that the clumsy statement was made in communication with Mr.Zariņš and that it is neither a concept to be used in record-keeping nor in the application of the law, as can be seen and verified by letter of 23 May 2018. 2.13.19.1-1/2018/2333 in response to Member's question No 426/J12. For the time being, Mr. Zarins has been reading and translating written answers from the Ministry of Economics in a way that he can understand. Reminders. In the past, Mr Zariņš expressed his opinion that the Ministry had allegedly lost documents, as if the State of Latvia had to repay funds illegally issued for the construction of cogeneration stations, as well as other claims on white threads. Last week, the Constitutional Court decided not to follow the recommendations of the Prosecutor General's Office and start an examination of the compatibility of the OIC regulation with the Satversme. The Minister for Economic Affairs continues to believe that this system should be abolished and that the plan for abolishing this system should be ready by 1 August this year. Most of the members of the Commission did not support the request and I call on you to do not support it either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U54	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U55	When I started working with the demonstration of this scene... One of the fundamental principles that is used in the implementation of this area is that of interpretation. So take a specific norm and start to interpret it - that's what Mr. Spotis did now, who actually... that doesn't match the truth. But this interpretation can be beneficial to someone and can be used in a completely different light. First of all, how did the request arise for this "in good faith" violation? The Ministry of Economics was asked about these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, and one of the blocks of questions was related to how the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers intend to prevent or prevent violations in this sector. And here there is a very interesting regulation of OIC, and it is state aid - that is, aid received by a businessman, and it is about several million. But this control scheme is very unique, that is, the businessman can cheat, ignore these rules and earn millions; and if he is caught, he has nothing to do with it, he only warns him. These are the rules! If you tried some other rules, let us say about using the support provided by the European Structural Funds or the Rural Support Service... Try it there! The defrauder will be told: “Nothing, nothing! We warned you, keep going!” In all seriousness, this regulation has been designed: for half a year, this businessman can continue to do so, cheat, fail to fulfil these conditions for support, and he does not have to... he is simply being warned and he can do what he wants for six months. We asked the Minister for Economic Affairs to explain why there is such a very specific infringement order. The Minister for Economics replied: three months for measuring instruments, six for others. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “three months!” ) No, read the rules carefully, Mr. Spoolis! The Minister replied, therefore, that such an alert system was introduced for irregularities that could result from the operator acting in good faith. That is his answer: written to the Saeima! Meet me, Mr. Spolish, and you will see it. Next, for your three months. Three months for measuring instruments, six months for other irregularities. Then in essence, to make you understand, analogy... If such a regulation were, let us say, about other violations of the rules, then it would look like that compared to road traffic rules: you drive under the influence of alcohol, you stop, and you have nothing to do with it. You simply warn and say, “Look! For another six months you can go to the wheel completely in the ambiance, but within six months you have to stop drinking at the wheel. If not, we will punish you!” That is all the seriousness of this regulation. And when the Minister for Economics replied that such a regulation, such a procedure applies to rules that are being violated in good faith, we asked him specific questions about these fair violations. Example: How can a measure of energy accounting for which an economic operator is receiving aid not be set up in good faith? Here is that the Ministry of Economics narrowed down, took only one very narrow aspect. There shall be a system of measuring instruments, measuring instruments to be installed by the economic operator himself and shall be submitted to the public trader for further reporting. And it's very important! This public trader determines, in accordance with these indicators, whether or not the economic operator qualifies as aid at all. What is being done now? This gauge may not be at all. It's all serious! And the Ministry of Economics claims that this is a normal, honest violation. ‘ Well, he doesn't have the measuring devices! He's working there, everything's going on... Let us believe him in the word that everything is as he says.” There was also a question of how, by acting in good faith, the capacity indicated in the contract with the public trader might not correspond to that actually installed, because it is again... It is important to record these capacity manipulations in order to correctly calculate whether or not the economic operator qualifies for support. And more interesting! On that, the Ministry of Economics really is... Well, it would be amusing to hear the economic minister's answer, but he has not already come, because he knows well that this is a violation and that it could not be done, and that it is a complete folly, and that it is a concrete, obvious cover for the atmosphere. There was a question of how, by acting in good faith, the electricity needed for the operation of the power plant could not be provided in accordance with the rules. That's how it can happen that, without the businessman's knowledge, he suddenly developed a connection scheme that he can cheat on his own. It is possible that the Minister is a great fanatical genre and has imagined that electricity itself can dig a canal, dig a trench, draw a wire, make a connection, the businessman does not know, and thus ensure that this station works suddenly under conditions that are not in accordance with the rules; that this has happened without the businessman's information. It is very likely that it is his faith and he is simply shy to come today and tell us all about it. This is the essence of the demand. Go on. Mr Spolitis, you mentioned the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court has not considered this application at all in essence, has not even accepted it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “I also said it!” ) This has not been seen at all in substance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “But just like that!” ) This has not yet been seen. And now we write... Then, when the application will be written to the Constitutional Court as it should be, let us see what the Constitutional Court will decide. I felt that the Prosecutor General’s Office hastened with this application to the Constitutional Court precisely so that it could now tell: “Well, we have already acted, we have done it, but nothing has happened.” In fact, though, there is a lot to do. And here must start not with the Constitutional Court, but with specific criminal proceedings. And I very much hope that the Request Commission will present these documents on the previous request; it is obvious there that fraud is being committed, in addition in an illegal manner. And the relevant competent authorities will be able to judge this and then take appropriate action and take action. Colleagues! I call for support for this request, because it is obvious that it is justified and such regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers are contrary to the purpose and purpose for which they had to be issued at all, namely to provide support for efficient cogeneration. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. These rules allow fraud - even motivate fraud. Imagine what if road traffic regulations had such a standard that you could drink and sit on the steering wheel in a drink! Moreover, a person would know clearly that he would not cause an accident. You can't cause an accident, you can't get a penalty. Even more: if you do so, then you will receive a premium! That's what you're gonna pay for, and you're gonna be able to make millions more. Imagine what would happen on Latvia's roads! Here is also the answer to you why the Ministry of Economics does not want to start real station checks. Make a conclusion! It is a politically covered area that is still on-going, and you will confirm it with your vote immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U56	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission? So the rapporteur does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Sergeja Potapkina, Arthur Rubika, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Jānis Adamsona, Sergeja Mirska and Ivana Ribakova's request to the Minister of Economy Arvilas Aseradenas "On the strange basis of the Cabinet of Ministers' Regulations No. 262 "Regulations on the production of electricity by means of renewable energy sources and price-setting procedures" in relation to the "fairly committed violation"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 44, for - 6. The request is rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U57	Dear President, Presidium! Dear colleagues, We work with document No.5084 - “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia”. This draft law is prepared at the initiative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Financial and Capital Market Commission to strengthen the Latvian financial sector and prevent money laundering and terrorism financing. The purpose of the Law on International and National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia is the ability of the State to react promptly to possible security threats. For example, with regard to financial sanctions, it is essential to suspend or prevent financial transactions between sanctioned persons that threaten national or regional security, the stability of the financial sector and the reputation of countries in the global financial sector. This draft law in principle does six things. It clarifies the range of legal entities, determines the time of entry into force of national sanctions, provides for evaluation of sanctions in public procurements, determines the need for the establishment of an internal control system, supplements the list of competent authorities and establishes their right to impose penalties on shortcomings in the internal control system. This draft law introduces the priorities established in the Financial Sector Development Plan 2017-2019 in the area of sanctions. The amendments also provide for systematic changes in determining the anti-money laundering services, the State Revenue Service and the Consumer Rights Protection Centre as competent institutions. The Financial and Capital Market Commission will have the right to issue regulatory acts in accordance with the established delegation. In order to achieve the objectives and tasks of the draft law, Latvian financial and capital market participants will need to develop an internal control system for the management of sanctions risk. Finally, it should be noted that the Latvian Association of Commercial Banks participated in the drafting of this law. The proposals of the association were taken into account in the design of the project and the association fully supported the progress of this draft law. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined and supported this project and calls for it to be implemented as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U58	Thank you. So we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 20, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U59	On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U60	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U61	Dear colleagues, What I, as a Member who is not a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission, but who must take responsibility today for supporting this draft law by reading this bill, I understand - sanctions as an individual national instrument, I would say, a surgical instrument, are a very serious matter, and every country, when deciding to introduce sanctions, takes full responsibility for both what is to be achieved and what these sanctions could do for a particular country, now Latvia, economy. At present, the situation with this bill is more similar to that of the yard games, where one boy goes against the other, and someone else wants to take part in it all because there's something going on there. We will voluntarily join in the sanctions imposed by the European Union and NATO Member States, especially in view of the fact that NATO Member States themselves impose their own sanctions. And here the situation is very interesting. What to do to Latvia if one other NATO member differs significantly? For example, the US's position against Iran in the nuclear transaction. The US wants to close the deal and introduce sanctions, but European countries have the opposite view. Which side will Latvia remain in this situation? Should we bring the law as a personal opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs through the Saeima without the support of the President of Latvia? Because it's urgent. With these amendments, Latvia refuses to think with its own head and is ready to blindly copy foreign positions. And what's interesting? There will be no liability for any damage. The words of a rock opera must really be quoted here: “The land of Latvia is standing in the open, the winds are walking in, out!” I call on you fellow Members not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U62	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U63	None. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U64	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Sanctions of the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 19, for - 2. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U65	The deadline for submitting proposals is one hour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U66	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U67	Review of the Saeima sitting - tomorrow, 21 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U68	21 June Please turn on the microphone for Arthur Rubik!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U69	Our proposal is July 20 this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U70	July 20th. And consideration of the Saeima sitting? ( Internouncing call.) At the next ordinary Saeima sitting. Okay, colleagues. We must first vote in favour of a proposal with a deadline. This means - July 20, 2018 as the deadline for submitting proposals. And consideration - after 20 July at the next Saeima sitting. Please vote mode! Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal is not supported. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals set by the Commission remains in force - one hour. That means by 14:19. And consideration - the Saeima on 21 June this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U72	On the agenda - draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U73	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission has worked with amendments to the Electronic Media Law and 33 proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. is a proposal of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, which is based on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture and which defines who is a true beneficiary. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U75	2. is the proposal of the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U76	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U77	3. there is a proposal from the commission responsible, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U79	4. is the proposal of Minister of Culture Daces Melbards. Partially supported, included 1. and 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U80	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U81	5. The Commission's proposal is in charge and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U83	6. is the proposal of Minister of Culture Daces Melbards. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U85	7. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Melbard. Partly supported, included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U86	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U87	8. is a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U89	9. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U91	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U93	11. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U95	12. is a group's Unity proposal, which provides that the prohibition of programmes may be based on the prohibition of other countries' programmes as a basis for evidence. Is partially supported, included in 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U96	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U97	13. There is a Commission proposal and it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U98	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U99	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, President of the Commission Indeed, the 13th proposal is the one that deals with the powers of the National Electronic Media Council regarding the way in which the dissemination of programmes that have proven to contain hate speech, including against the state of Latvia, is restricted. The procedure is long, the burden of proof is quite high, and the Council needs to do a relatively large amount of work, under the current rules in the European Union (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) different steps to achieve a ban on the distribution of a programme. The proposal will state that if these steps have already been taken in another Member State of the European Union and it has been demonstrated that a similar programme has also been distributed in Latvia, the NEEAP will be able to act more operationally and prohibit such a programme. The original proposal of the Group's Unity was that the use of other language programmes outside the European Union should be restricted in our TV programmes, requiring the transmission of 90 per cent of the programmes in the languages of the European Union. Unfortunately, as we examined this proposal, we understood that it would also impact asymmetrically on the distribution of independent TV channels produced in Russia with independent content and give our citizens a proper picture of what is happening in a neighbouring country, including critically speaking against Putin's regime there. We concluded that it would be a great loss for our Russian-speaking people if, for example, they had no access to the TV channel????? and so we gave up this proposal. All of us, and especially the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, will have to monitor the work of the National Electronic Media Council so that it really takes advantage of this new function provided by the law, and if another Member State of the European Union decides, like Lithuania, to ban the distribution of a programme, then we will also act very quickly and do the same thing so that this Russian propaganda does not wash our human brains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U100	Thank you. Thus, Amendment 13 is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U101	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Neighbouring's proposal, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U102	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U103	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - also the proposal from the Member's neighbour. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U104	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U105	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U107	17. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U109	18. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U111	19. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Partially supported inclusion 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U112	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U113	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U115	21 is a proposal from Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, which has not been supported. But I have to explain here that this is not formally supported, because the proposal is further supported by proposal 31, which reads as follows: ‘After receiving a positive decision from the European Commission on the compatibility of aid for commercial activities with the internal market of the European Union’, the Ministry of Finance supports the opinion of the Commission. So 21 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U116	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U117	22. - also a proposal from the Minister of Finance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U118	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U119	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Partially supported, included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U120	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U121	24. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U123	25. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U124	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U125	26. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Partially supported, included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U126	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U127	27. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U129	28. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U130	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U131	29. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U133	30. - The proposal from the Member's neighbor. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U134	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U135	31. is a proposal by Minister of Finance Reizniece-Ozola. It is partly supported, included in 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U136	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U137	32. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Melbard. Partially supported, included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U138	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U139	33. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is supported and very important because it provides for the entry into force of all these draft laws on a very important condition: if they are planned to have a national budget and are expected to receive the appropriate funding for these amendments. This concerns both the exit of public media from the advertising market and the support of the Latvian State Radio and Television Centre to strengthen local content. And that also means strengthening the capacity of the Monitoring Centre of the National Electronic Media Council. So the Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U140	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U141	Dear colleagues, This is indeed a historic proposal, because it involves funding the state budget for a very important, national, initiative to exit public media from the advertising market. Colleagues! Both in Estonia and Lithuania, in our neighbourhood, the public has been living for many years without advertising in the public media. I myself have heard from people living at both Lithuanian and Estonian borders that they like to watch Lithuanian and Estonian public media, because their programmes are not interrupted by advertising. Dear colleagues, Our public media must leave the advertising market so that their funding can finally be clear, understandable and that they can finally be truly public-funded media. To get these media out of the advertising market, 14 million euros will be needed in the state budget in 2021. Colleagues! This is not a big sum to ensure the health of the public media and the independence of the public media. Their exit from the advertising market will also strengthen commercial media, because given that there is a very small market in Latvia, commercial media will be able to sell advertising time and thus finance the development of content created in Latvia. Colleagues! In planning the next year's budget and the next Saeima voting in favour of the medium-term budget, it is already necessary to provide for this funding. Colleagues! I therefore call on you to look beyond the interests of some restaurants when we have to decide on this - for us or for those of us who will decide on it - and indeed to support this provision, which, in the opinion of many people and also in my opinion, we needed to introduce the law last night. Let us do it tomorrow and do not wait for an unknown date, as we sometimes try to do with important decisions! Thank you. This is a really important proposal. So I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U142	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U143	Dear colleagues, I cannot miss the rare opportunity to fully support my colleague Chiongi, because indeed the Commission has unanimously supported this proposal. But this is not just the responsibility of the commission; this is the responsibility of the entire Saeima. It is very easy now to vote for something, but as you say, promised does not fall into the purse. Because all attempts to guarantee the funding of some other legislation to that or other sector so far were not too beneficial. And I expect that when the next Saeima comes to the budget question, other priorities, other burning issues will appear, and we may quickly forget about our decision today. Public media will, in fact, no longer have access to advertising money, and so they will depend entirely on how honest the next Saeima Members will follow our decision today. And, of course, that is not enough. We all have a lot of claims against the public media, and these claims are mostly justified, because really public media are the media of society as a whole. The law requires them to reflect the views of all groups of society. Is that what it is today? I don't think so. I will say even more: the Council has no criteria and mechanism to verify and control the compliance of public media with these requirements of the law. That is, of course, another problem that should be addressed. But if there is no funding, there will be nothing. If we do not provide the public media with much less normal funding, we will hardly be able to demand anything. In fact, the lack of funding will only reinforce concerns, and justified concerns, about the fact that public media still have some kind of relationship with some political parties, with certain politicians, that there is a special favour regime and that this is being compensated in some way. We have all heard about this; we have all read about such suspicions. And in order to rule out this, the first essential prerequisite is indeed to ensure the necessary funding. I therefore call on you to support this proposal and do not forget it until the next budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U144	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U145	Yeah, let's be good hosts! Why did I come to express my opinion? Yesterday and yesterday, on television, there were talk of money that we lacked a few million to pay teachers salaries. And now we find 14 million to help... ( Insight: “Twenty years, Valdi Kalnozol! ” ) We can obey if we want to. We're finding these 14 million. I think maybe... I ask you to see that the best way to look for their money is to promote the economy. In any case, by promoting the economy, we will get this money. I'm just... At one point we lack teachers, but we find 14 million to give to non-governmental media. That surprised me so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U146	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add? Mr Kalnozol, are you in favour of the vote on this proposal? No, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U147	In the Commission, the proposal was supported and indeed also asked the media to mention from the troupe that these amendments will only come into effect once Members have assumed their responsibilities and consequently accepted the amendments to the budget. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U149	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U150	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second, final, reading is supported, so the law adopted. Thank you. On the agenda - draft law on the International Convention for the Control and Management of Marine ballast water and sediment, 2004 – second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U151	Good afternoon! We work with document number 5051. This draft law “On the International Convention for the Control and Management of Sea ballast Water and Sludges 2004” was discussed at second reading. We received five proposals. The proposal is from the Saeima Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U153	The proposal is from the Saeima's Legal Bureau. It was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U155	Proposal 3 and from the Saeima Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U157	Proposal 4 and from the Saeima Legal Bureau. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U159	The proposal is made from the Foreign Affairs Commission. Of course, it was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U161	All the proposals have therefore been examined. The Foreign Affairs Commission supported the draft law at second, final, reading. I call on you to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U162	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second final reading of the draft law on the International Convention for the Control and Management of Marine ballast water and sediment 2004! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on the amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, second reading of the Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Layer. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U163	We work with document number 5052. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law at second reading. We did not receive any proposals and draft laws. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U164	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, the Vienna Convention on the Protection of the Ozone Layer! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes and its protocol”, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U165	We work with document number 5054. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law at second reading. We have not received any proposals. We supported the draft law, and on behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U166	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the Prevention of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes and its protocols”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U167	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U168	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U169	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No 1000/Lp12). The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of the Interior to speed up criminal proceedings, and that is why several proposals have been submitted by the Ministry of the Interior. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partly supported, included in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U170	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U171	2. - the proposal of the Legal Commission, which has essentially been drawn up on the basis of the proposal of Minister Kozlovsky. It's supported. It is a proposal for amendments to Article 66, and it is about the right of the suspect to receive a copy of the decision by which a person is recognised as a suspect or a statement of the decision taken in accelerated criminal proceedings. The proposal is therefore supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U173	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky, which provides for rights similar to those referred to in proposals 1 and 2... provide for similar rights for minors. The proposal was partly supported, including 4. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U175	4. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U177	5. - Member Kūtra's proposal - and Amendments 6 and 7 are related to Section 124 of the Criminal Procedure Law, supplemented by the seventh part, which provides that in order to prove the money laundering of the proceeds of crime, it must be demonstrated that these funds are criminally acquired. But there is no need to prove specifically from which criminal funds are derived. We have debated a great deal about this proposal, and it is important to stress that these amendments do not in any case mean that it will be possible to recognise funds obtained from crime if there is insufficient evidence. However, if there is, for example, a situation where it is clearly known that the funds are of criminal origin, but it is not clear whether the funds in question have been obtained, for example by selling a drug party or another drug party, this will not prevent action under the Criminal Procedure Act. In other words, it will not be necessary to make it compulsory to identify the specific criminal acts by which they have been committed. 5. - Member Curra's proposal. Partially supported, including 7. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U178	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U179	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also partly supported, including 7. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U181	7. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U183	8 / 8 - the proposal by Member Curra on Article 143, which deals with the use of sound and image recordings. Partly supported. Member Kūtris suggested that the report be prepared within three days. But when we discussed this issue, we supported the proposal from the Legal Bureau that this can be done within seven days. But it is important that this time is set. Consequently, proposal 8 has been partly supported, including it 9. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U184	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U185	9. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U187	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U189	11. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U191	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U193	13. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Not supported. The question is Article 318, about criminal decisions. In principle, we accepted the argument mentioned by representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, but we also pointed out that if there are two norms - general and special - it is necessary to act in accordance with a special norm. Consequently, amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law are not necessary and the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U194	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U195	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partially supported, including 15. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U196	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U197	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U199	16. - Member Curra's proposal for keeping the register in criminal proceedings. In order to speed up criminal proceedings, the Ministry of the Interior offered to withdraw from the register because information related to procedural activities can always be found in materials. Mr Kūtra proposed that it be maintained, but after consultation we decided that we would still support the position of the Ministry of the Interior. Consequently, proposal 16 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U200	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U201	Proposal 17 submitted by Minister for the Interior Kozlovskis, as well as several others - 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28 and 30. - relate to one editorial clarification. At the moment, we have two processes that we combine: there is a short process and there is an urgent procedure. In future, we will talk about one type of process, that is, the procedure for an accelerated process. Therefore, the words in question had to be replaced. So the 17th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U203	18. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U205	19. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U207	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau not to amend Article 398.1. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U209	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U211	22. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U212	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U213	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U215	24. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U217	25. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U219	26. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U221	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U223	28. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U225	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U227	30. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U229	31. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U231	32. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U233	33. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U235	Proposal 34 was partly supported, including 35. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U236	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U237	Okay. And the last two proposals relate to the procedure for applying the law. We predicted that if the process was shortened or started by August 31, then it will have to be continued according to the procedure currently foreseen, but from September 1 the law will already provide for a new procedure. Consequently, 35. - The legal commission's proposal - has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U239	And 36. - The legal commission's proposal - it is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U241	Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U242	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U243	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” (No 1203/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined this draft law at third reading. A total of six proposals were received. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U245	2. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U247	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U249	4. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U251	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U253	And finally 6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U255	Consequently, honourable colleagues, we have examined all six proposals, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U256	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and celebrated days”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Rihards Melgailis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U257	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs has examined the draft law “Amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and famous days”” (No. 1224/Lp12). We invite you to consider three proposals. But before we talk about them, I want to explain in a few words how our commission came to its proposal for this bill. We have a number of draft laws with this title on our agenda, and over the last two months, the Commission has received a great many different proposals for the famous days, for the holidays, for the professional days, and it was very difficult for the Commission to decide which ones to support, which they do not. As if everyone deserves a festival, and such a festival may be necessary, but there were no criteria for assessing and evaluating it. That is why the Commission, after a long debate on this draft law, has drawn up proposal 1...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U258	... which is supported by the Commission. And the Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U259	2. - Mr Platoper's proposal, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U260	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U261	Dear Members, From 1975, i.e. the last century, to this day, I carried out educational activities. I started in a general education school, and now I was teaching at the university. And for 43 years, I've been recording Teacher Day on the first Friday of October every year with my teachers, my colleagues, regardless of the first Sunday of October... always all the events and celebrations with students and then with colleagues, friends and peers took place very emotionally on Friday all day long, also after hours. All children in their classrooms greet their teachers warmly and lovingly. And it's an emotional event for a teacher who often sets us below a bus driver, who has two months of instruction in courses, receives a licence to drive a bus, works quietly and receives more salary than a teacher. Why? And that's Friday, not Sunday, I call you always to mark it as a teacher day. On Sunday morning, I was usually called by my closest colleagues and congratulated on Master’s Day. The children usually do not come to the teacher’s home on Sunday. And with regard to the word “educator” in my call... shall be replaced by the word ‘trainer’. I'll quote two articles from the encyclopedia. ‘ Teacher – educator, education worker with special educational education, who carries out teaching in an educational institution or licensed private practice, teaches, helps to acquire knowledge, directs the learning process.” ‘Pedagogogue: a person who has received educational education and is trained for teaching and education at any level and in any form of education.’ Pedagogy specialist - lecturer at university, teacher, teacher. In Latvia, the Education Law has no explanation for the term “teacher”. There is an explanation for the term ‘educator’. Open this law and read it! I very much call on some 30 thousand educators not to steal the most emotional day for them - the first Friday of October. And this time really come in front of all the agreements that may have been reached in the coalition, how to work with this law, and yet to support and finally make it really a day for teachers, when a student - from pre-school seniors to higher education - is greeting, lovingly contacting and enjoying the same joy as a family, celebrating birthday. These are emotions that remain for life. I therefore call very much on you to support my proposal and to vote in favour of moving from Sunday to Friday, as everyone actually does. Because if we then celebrate the centenary of the country 22. ... Is it better 19 or 17 November than 18 November? Let's do it! I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U262	Name to Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U263	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! I've had that honor to play very often, to make music the Teacher's Day. And it usually happens on Friday. Moreover, our people have a habit that birthdays are also celebrated either on that day or to be congratulated afterwards. There's a tradition that birthdays usually don't celebrate in advance. And if this does not hurt anyone and does not require any special expenditure, I ask for support for Mr Platoper's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U264	The name to Member Ringold Balodis, if you enter in four minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U265	Yes, dear colleagues! Now this is an issue that has already been addressed. Before that, the commission decided that there would be no such many famous days. In the Commission, for example, while listening to Walter Dambie, I wanted to cry: why do we have no agronomic day? He gave a very nice speech... ( Milestones.) Teachers, let it be one such group! But... Come on, come on! Every day you can make the day of the feast! This is not about teachers being worse than others. Come on! The Commission decided that the Ministry of Justice would work on this issue, and here we come back to this horror... Come on, colleagues, let's not vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U266	Mr. Viļuma, will you have almost three minutes? Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U267	Ringold, this day has already been incorporated into this law... I mean, it's not about some extra day... Just move from Sunday, as the law has now inserted, to Friday. Be careful, please! We are currently only talking about this proposal. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U268	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to express the opinion of the panel?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U269	The Commission decided not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U270	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Platoper's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -11, for -27, for -30. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U271	The Commission has prepared the 3rd proposal, which instructs the Cabinet of Ministers to evaluate the existing regulations on holidays, memories and famous days by 31 December of this year and to draw up proposals on how to determine in future and which regulatory acts to include holidays, memories, to mark and other solemn days.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U273	Consequently, all three proposals have been examined. Please approve this draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U274	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U275	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Inesis Boķis, Aleksandrs Jakimovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Atis Lejiņš, Aivars Meija, Rihards Melgailis... And, Roman Mežeckis, Arvīds Platopers... Yes, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Upenieks and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U276	Thank you. Interruption until 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U277	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U278	Hello, dear colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, third reading. We have received nine proposals for the third reading. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined these proposals. 1. - Dan Reizniece-Ozola's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U280	2. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U282	3. - the proposal by the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U284	4. - the proposal by the commission responsible, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U286	5. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U288	6. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U290	7. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U291	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U292	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U294	And closing, 9 - the proposal of the commission responsible, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U296	We have examined all the proposals. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U297	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, against and abstaining - not... Dear colleagues, there is no quorum in the Chamber. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! So there are 57 Members who have registered. Please call again! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on business secrecy, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U298	Dear colleagues, The Saeima Legal Commission shall, for the first reading, direct the draft law prepared by the Ministry of Justice “Business Secretity Law”. Such a legislative initiative results from the need to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the protection of know-how and business sensitive information (commercial secrets) against the unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. The Permanent Working Group of the Ministry of Justice, which prepares amendments to the Commercial Law, agreed that, since the said Directive provides for a number of innovations to be introduced into the Latvian legal system, it would be more appropriate to develop a new law specifically designed for it than just to amend the Commercial Law. Unlike the existing arrangements which apply only to economic operators, this law applies not only to economic operators, but also to any natural or legal person having legal control over the business secrets or who has unlawfully acquired, used or disclosed the business secrets. The object of commercial secrecy may be technical information such as sketches, designs, prototypes, production processes, inventions that may or may not be patentable, know-how, which takes the form of technical, commercial, organisational knowledge (e.g. formulas or prescriptions), as well as commercial information (e.g. customer and supplier lists, business models and strategies, pricing policies, etc.). The object of commercial secrecy may also be the financial information of the economic operator or entity carrying out the economic activity. The draft law also regulates remedies in cases of infringement of trade secrets rights. They shall apply where the court has established the existence of an infringement of a trade secret right. The draft law should also include amendments to the Civil Procedure Law in order to transpose the procedural rules provided for in that Directive, and there will be a need to make a number of amendments to other laws, including possibly also the Labour Law. The Saeima Legal Commission invites to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U299	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on commercial secrecy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U300	The Legal Commission is asking to set a deadline for the submission of proposals on 16 July 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U301	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 July this year. On the agenda - draft law on personal data processed for law enforcement purposes, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U302	Hello, colleagues! The draft law is related to the Directive of 27 April 2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which Latvia had to incorporate into its laws by 6 May of this year. As you all know, there is a General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, and in the context of this regulation it is clear that the protection of personal data... to be correct, data processing... and therefore, the rights of the individual are slightly less protected if these data are necessary for the investigation authorities, courts and the accounting and control of the application of administrative penalties. Consequently, this sector-specific law on data to be processed for law enforcement purposes contains regulations that are in line with the Regulation. And, of course, institutions should also work. In essence, this Law aims to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons, in particular respect for private life, with regard to the processing of personal data to the extent and to the extent necessary for the investigation of criminal offences and the execution of criminal and administrative penalties. The Legal Commission has assessed this draft law and invites colleagues to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U303	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on personal data processed for law enforcement purposes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U304	Request for proposals by 16 July of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U305	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Compensation for Victims”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U306	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State Compensation for Victims”. The Legal Commission has not received any proposal for a second reading. I therefore call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U307	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Compensation for Victims”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U308	June 25th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U309	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is June 25, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Provided Legal Assistance”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U310	Colleagues, the Legal Commission has received eight proposals for this draft law. 1. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U312	2. is a technical proposal from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U314	The third is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U316	4. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which provides legal assistance provided by the State also in the procedure of the Constitutional Court. Some time ago, the Ombudsman turned to the Legal Commission with an invitation to find an opportunity to provide state legal assistance also in the procedure of the Constitutional Court. We assessed this proposal by inviting representatives of the Constitutional Court and, with conceptual support, the Minister of Justice has already submitted amendments to these 4 proposals to the Law on Legal Assistance provided by the State. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U318	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U320	6. is the proposal of the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U322	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U324	And 8. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U326	We have examined all the proposals. Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Provided Legal Assistance” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U327	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Provided Legal Assistance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U328	June 25th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U329	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is June 25, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Diplomatic Passport”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U330	Good afternoon! We work with document No.4795, draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Diplomatic Passport””. What does it change that now a diplomatic passport will also be awarded to judges of the Constitutional Court and the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? This is a normal practice in a number of Member States of the European Union - the Netherlands, Italy, Denmark, Poland and others. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law at first reading and supported it. I also call on you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U331	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Diplomatic Passport”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U332	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 27 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U333	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is June 27, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Preservation and Defence of the Historical Centre of Riga”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Artis Gustovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U334	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues! At second reading we see the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conservation and Protection of the Historical Centre of Riga”. We examined all the proposals in the Commission, one of which was supported and six were not supported. The proposal was endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U336	2. ... ( Intercretion: ‘ Speak, speak! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U337	2. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U338	Dear colleagues, My second proposal (the first was the recommendation to write in the title “Riga Dome” the word “dome” with a small letter), is as follows: I call for the words “which make up greenery and green space system” to be deleted from the draft law. Because these words are a reservation that actually narrows down tree protection measures. I would like to thank the Members of the Commission for really studying this issue and encouraging either to make a commission proposal or to support my proposal. But, unfortunately, the rolling of the committee's sitting... The course was truly that did not allow for any change. And it only came to me to ask a commission to be invited to this committee by a tree protection expert. And strangely, on this issue, the opinion of their experts was continued to be given by an institution that is, in fact, an interested institution - the State Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Monuments. The story is as follows: The law, which is sufficiently well-designed at this point in time, includes the term "greens and green areas" and provides that it is an authentic cultural historical value to be protected. On the other hand, the term “cultural historical value” is explained in the law, and for trees this means that it is about landscape design. And it is clear that it is about the city's parks and squares, because they "form a system of green spaces and green spaces". Wood, which grows outside the sinks and is located on the land of the owner and which interferes with, and whose sawing has not been authorised by the owner, shall not be included in this provision. In fact, at the moment, there is simply a desire to make the Riga City Council plant trees by law, which the Riga City Council is already doing. You could just as well make the birds sing in the morning. The City Council does not need laws for planting trees; it does so each year in the amount of its planned budget in the city. However, in order to protect trees from abuse on private land, a norm is needed and has been mentioned several times. The second question is about the tree itself. Obviously, the interpretation of the terms used in law must be considered. What is it? In the view of the State Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, a tree may also be considered as a tree that is self-contained on a wall or roof. Well, in that case, you cut your own logic because, on the one hand, you call them trees, but on the other, you say that they do not need to be protected. As we know, only a tree with an average strain of not less than 20 centimetres (according to Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No.309) can be considered a tree. Finally, I would like to point out that the draft laws themselves, which originally, until spring, had prepared them, were not in this version... the greening and greening system had not been included in the previous version. And the current version itself liberalises this rule, in fact speaking only of parks and sinks. This reservation, colleagues, is not necessary. Therefore, I call on you to vote in favour of my proposal and to support all trees in the historic centre of Riga by voting in favour of the protection of trees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U339	Name to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U340	Thank you for the Bureau. Colleagues! As the first to sign up to the bill, I listen and wonder not about what Mrs Stepanenko is offering this time, but about the fact that “the best is the enemy of the good”, as the nation says. The idea was very simple (Mr Stepanenko exactly quoted) - to protect trees, of course, that do not threaten historical buildings, according to the principle: if the tree has been destroyed or cut or poisoned... In short, if the tree is no longer present, the landowner is obliged to plant an equivalent or more valuable tree on that site. Why it is necessary to play with terms and wander in cosmic distances, I really can't understand because - I'll repeat! - the idea was to protect trees and thus protect plantings as a system. Why is it necessary to go in terminology glasses, talking about plantings, grasslands, green areas and gradually pouring out a child with water from a bathtub? I can't understand! Unfortunately, I did not have the opportunity to take part in the last sittings of the commission, but I call on the members of the commission to return to common sense and, if there is a desire to protect the landscape, do not forget the original idea of the bill - to protect certain trees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U341	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U342	Mr. Loskutov, you probably didn't listen carefully to me, because I quote both the norms of the law and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And actually, the green zone system consists of parks and sinks. You want to protect only those trees that form a landscape in parks and squares; you are not talking about trees that are located on the land of private owners and that tend to be misused in poisoning and spotting. Please listen to what I am saying and return to your original legislative text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U343	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U344	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. The Commission proposes not to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U345	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 42, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U346	3. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U347	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U348	Dear colleagues, We have come to such an important issue as planting wood, and planting is not anywhere, but where the tree is sampled without authorisation. The rule of the draft law provides that the landowner, after he may have violated the law - possibly! - and on his earth, perhaps! - there has been an abuse of the tree, but simply a tree completely anywhere else in the tree, and not a stand, but just a tree. How to control it and how to prevent owners from being able to measure their trees freely in the future by planting some plantations anywhere - I really do not see. Because this proposal is really meant to significantly improve the originally totally invalid bill. Once again, I would like to thank my colleagues in the committee who listened to and called for the legislative proposal from the committee, which provided that this planting of trees would take place according to the instructions of the specialist and close to the place of growth. However, I must say: I regret that my proposal was not supported. The reservations of my colleagues were not supported either. Without supporting this proposal, it really turns out that the owner has loosed his hands and can do whatever he wants. I call on you to take note of the fact that a number of experts have spoken on this issue and also the Environment Authority has given its explanation, gave its vision on this situation. I therefore call on you fellow Members to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U349	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? No, no! Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 43, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U350	4. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U351	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U352	Colleagues! It's very short. I believe that the draft law is also sufficiently well-designed for buildings and constructions and does not require such strange additions. It should be noted that the modern construction process is very complex and construction materials are currently available in quite a wide range. And so to set such a strange norm, in my opinion, is really absolutely unreasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U353	Name to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U354	The claim that the draft law is well-designed for buildings is a little hypocritical, albeit because the law does not protect the structures. Buildings are protected by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers drawn up on the basis of the law. As we know, in Riga still quite recently, houses were deliberately lowered to the collapse or burned or renovated to the extent that the so-called historical substance was left in the best case cellar space, but the rest was already built according to the new norm. The proposed provision is therefore absolutely natural in the context of maintaining the historical centre. If a building is damaged, demolished and not renewable, it may be replaced by an equivalent material of equivalent size. The aim of the norm, I think, is very clear. To prevent, for example, a two-storey historical building being burned down to build a seven-storey hotel there. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U355	I closed the debate. Or on behalf of the Commission (interim.) and what is to be added? No, no! Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 50, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U356	5. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U357	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U358	6. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U359	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U360	Colleagues! Proposals 6 and 7 are interrelated, and they propose that two more representatives be included in the Council for Conservation and Development of the Historical Centre of Riga, given that the draft law currently provides for amendments regarding the obligation to replace dead trees. The Council should include a representative of the Commission for the Conservation of the Riga City Council and an official of the institution responsible for the environment. The 6th proposal is therefore about not 10 but 12 members. Proposals 7 and 7 refer to specific provisions - Subsections 11 and 12. I call on you to support this, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U361	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to say something on behalf of the Commission? Therefore, Proposal No 6 has not been approved by the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 45, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U362	And 7, closing, the proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko. The Commission has not supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U363	The Member has also spoken about Amendment 7. We must therefore vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 47, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U364	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U365	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Preservation and Defence of the Historical Centre of Riga”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 18, for - 2. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U366	The Commission proposal is on 25 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U367	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is June 25, this year. On the agenda – draft law “On the Treaty to combat counter-counterfeiting and counterfeiting and the general exemption concluded on 9 July 2004 between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. , the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and those Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets’ and the Treaty amending the Agreement between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. , the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and the Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets,’Reasoned second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U368	We work with document number 5053. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law and supported it. For the second reading, we did not receive any proposals, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U369	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on the Contracting Parties to the Convention and the General Exemption, concluded on 9 July 2004 between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. , the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and those Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets’ and the Treaty amending the Agreement between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. Support for the second reading of the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and of the Member States indicated on the attached pages of signatures’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U370	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 27 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U371	Thank you. Proposals are due by 27 June this year. On the agenda - draft law on road traffic law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U372	Madam President, Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft law on the Road Traffic Act (No 1202/l12). Four proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U374	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U376	3. - Proposal by Evik Siliņa, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U378	4. - Proposal by Evik Siliņa, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U380	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all four proposals. I call on the Commission to support this draft law at second reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U381	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U382	Thank you. Let us wait until 4 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U383	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 4 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U384	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We are working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions” (No 1176/Lp12). 16 proposals were submitted and examined by the Commission. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. It was partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U385	Members agree. Yes, Members share the Commission's view on proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U386	There's no objection? 2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U388	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U389	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U390	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U391	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U392	5. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U393	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U394	6. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U395	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U396	7. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U397	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U398	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U399	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U400	Okay. 9. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U401	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U402	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U404	11. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U405	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U406	12. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Partially supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U407	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U408	13. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U409	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U410	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U411	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U412	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Partially supported and included 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U413	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U414	16. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U415	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U416	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U417	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U418	Submission of proposals for third reading - 28 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U419	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is June 28, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior’s system of institutions and administration of prison places with special service grades in service law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U420	We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Progress” (No 1177/Lp12) at second reading. Seven proposals were submitted and examined by the Commission. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Partly supported and included 2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U421	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U422	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U423	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U424	3. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U425	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U426	4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U427	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U428	5. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partly supported and included 6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U429	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U430	6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U431	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U432	And seven. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U433	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U434	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U435	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Development”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U436	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be 28 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U437	Thank you. This draft law should also be submitted by 28 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of the Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Administration of Prison Sites with Special Degrees of Service”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U438	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendment to the law on disciplinary liability of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior and officials in the administration of detention places with special degrees of service” (No 1180/Lp12). No proposals were received from the Commission for the second reading. I therefore call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U439	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of the Institutions of the Ministry of Interior System and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U440	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be 28 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U441	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 28 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U442	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”” (No 1181/Lp12). For the second reading, no proposals were submitted to the Commission, so please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U443	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U444	This draft law is also due to be submitted for third reading on 28 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U445	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 28 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on social apartments and social housing”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U446	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law “Amendments to the law “On Social Apartments and Social Housing”” received 15 proposals. 1. - The proposal from Member Hosama Abu Meri. Partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U447	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U448	2. - The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, which states that a social apartment may also be an apartment rented by a municipality. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U449	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U450	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U452	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U453	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U454	5. - The proposal by Karina Plokas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. 9 has been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U455	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U456	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 9 has been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U457	Members agree
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U458	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 9 has been supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U459	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U460	8 / 8 - The proposal from Member Hosama Abu Meri. 9 has been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U461	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U462	9. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U464	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U465	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U466	11. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U467	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U468	12. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U469	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U470	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U472	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U474	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U476	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U477	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on social apartments and social housing”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U478	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to fix the deadline for the submission of proposals on 3 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U479	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 3 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U480	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U481	On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Scientific Activities, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U482	Dear Members of the Committee. The current regulation in the Law on Scientific Activities states that state research programmes are commissioned only by the Ministry of Education and Science. The proposed draft law provides that the state research programmes are a state order for carrying out scientific research in defined economic, educational, cultural or other fields, and that the objectives and tasks of the state research programmes are determined by the respective ministries in consultation with the Latvian Scientific Council and the Latvian Academy of Sciences. In accordance with the procedure of the competition procedure for draft national research programmes of the Ministry, funding from the state budget funds held by the ministries may be allocated to projects. The Latvian Scientific Council organises and implements the competition for draft national research programmes. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science supported the draft law at first reading and asked for urgency. Urgency is necessary because the Ministry of Economics... funding for launching a new energy research programme in the Ministry of Economics. The committee therefore asks the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading and to determine the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U483	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U484	The deadline for submitting proposals is June 20, at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U485	And consideration of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U486	And consideration of the Saeima sitting - 21 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U487	21 June Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals was 5 p.m. on 20 June this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting - 21 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Protection Bureau”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U488	Hello, colleagues! Taking into account that currently the Saeima is already working on the improvement of the legal framework of state security institutions, in relation to newly reviewed draft laws it has been established that amendments to the law of the Constitutional Protection Bureau should be made in order to exclude the text of the oath from this law, to clarify the reference as well as regulation regarding awards of officials. The draft law provides that it will enter into force at the same time as amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U489	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Constitutional Protection Office” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U490	June 25th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U491	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is June 25, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Hague Convention on the Service of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil and Commercial Matters”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U492	We work with document number 5057. Currently, court and extrajudicial documents received from foreign countries are delivered to persons in Latvia by a district (city) court. However, these amendments will in future be carried out by sworn bailiffs. It implements the reduction of court load. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law at first reading and supported it. I also call on you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U493	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Hague Convention on the Service of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil and Commercial Matters”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U494	June 27th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U495	June, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U496	Yeah, June.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U497	The deadline for submitting proposals is June 27, this year. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals for the third reading of the draft law “Law on referendums of local governments” (No. 76/Lp12), which was adopted before 1 August 2018.” Do you want to speak to the speaker... on behalf of the Commission? The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U498	Dear Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I will not really speak on behalf of the Commission. I will speak against this Commission decision to extend the deadline for the draft referendums of local governments. Colleagues, Latvian is very beautiful, and we have a lot of synonyms for the phraseologist “to stretch gum”. We say “to pull the lengths”, “to sit and knock the air with your nose”, “tossing”, “to slip” and in many other ways describe the process that happens when you really don’t want to move forward, but just to gurge. And such a gurgling is also an extension of this term. Dear colleagues, the National Administration and Municipal Commission worked with the draft referendums of local governments for four years. There were working groups, representatives of ministries were invited, representatives of public organisations were present. The first reading was in favour. The second reading was in favour. And the Commission agreed that this law should be moved to the third, final, reading session of the Saeima on 10 May. Colleagues, what has happened in the meantime? This draft law has not come to the agenda of the Saeima, because the commission has gurged, pulled along, stretched rubber and so on. Colleagues! The referendum law of local governments is necessary for our citizens. We are all the time concerned that the regions are emptying, that the population is depopulation and that the population no longer believes that life will be better in their municipalities. This draft law offers a concrete tool for the municipality to work with citizens to make life better. I have a question: who is afraid of this bill? I would like to remind you once again that it has been very carefully considered and developed, as it is the work of the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has not managed to complete this process with respect and to open this draft law to the Saeima sitting so that we can vote for it. This draft law provides for three directions in which residents of municipalities can engage in the work of their own council. They can thus speak about the sustainable development strategy, about the construction of public buildings and about the dismissal of the Council. The last one in this law is very high thresholds. For example, thinking about the municipality of Riga. A local referendum on the dismissal of a municipality requires 130,000 people's signatures. That's a lot. In order for the referendum to take place, it would be necessary to participate 82 thousand people in Riga, and half of them - more than half! - should be said in favour. Colleagues, why not give our citizens this instrument? I would like to remind you that there are three former county presidents in the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government - Tukums, Skrunda and Ape - and they are not afraid of the law on referendums of local governments. They believe that this law will force the municipality to talk much more to its citizens and will never reach the referendum in such negotiations. This means that as you grumble, stretch rubber, and drag the lengths, you want representatives of municipalities who do not want to cooperate and talk to their citizens. Colleagues, there is no need to extend the deadline for submitting proposals! There has been enough time for this draft law to be drawn up. We must ask the Commission of State Administration and Local Government to guide it in accordance with previously adopted decisions to examine these draft laws in the Saeima. This bill has to be adopted! Thank you. Please vote against this draft decision. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U499	So the Member has spoken against. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U500	Dear colleagues, As a member of the Committee on European Affairs, I have never used the words "the Commission is a fool" or "the Commission is demagogic". I am not going to do that today. We are talking about a specific draft decision, which, according to Mrs Chigane, is another attempt to fool the people. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in May this year, the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Kaspars Gerhards, addressed the Commission with a letter in which he expressed some concerns about certain regulations contained in the draft law on municipal referendums. On 7 June, the commission heard the Minister's arguments. The Commission considers that a certain part of the truth exists to him and that there are indeed two cases requiring a certain assessment, but they do not affect the substance of this draft law, but affect the procedure and technology for the implementation of this law. Consequently, after hearing the Minister, the Commission supported his proposal to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals. He offered a little longer time, and we have agreed that the deadline is 1 August, and the Commission voted unanimously on this. I'm thinking: I'm just saying. I would therefore ask the Saeima today to support the Commission's decision and, at the same time, to support the activities of the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development in the area of improving the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U501	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the third reading of the draft law on referendums of local governments (No. 76/Lp12) until 1 August 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -48, against -22, refraining -12. The decision has therefore been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On consent of the Saeima to increase the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018””. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U502	Colleagues! The committee responsible has examined and decided to agree to increase the appropriations set by the Ministry of Finance “On the State Budget for 2018” in the programme “Industry Management and Policy Planning” by 57 million EUR 394 thousand 382 out of the grant from general revenue and to provide for an increase in the share capital of the joint stock company “High tension network” in the category “Shared equity and other equity shares”. This appropriation is, in fact, an investment in the share capital of the public limited liability company ‘High-voltage Network’, which constitutes a financial transaction which does not have an impact on the general balance of the state budget. The Commission has supported this increase. I call on you to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U503	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U504	It would be right to tell us why this appropriation is needed, why 57 million are leaving. It's very simple! These 57 million relate to Conexus shares - for this acquisition of Conexus. When we asked the Prime Minister and the Minister for Economics, no one could give an economic justification and explain why that was what the Latvian State should have done at all. In particular, after we had made the necessary amendments to the law here in the Saeima and had envisaged that undesirable shareholders would have to leave this company and only those who we and the relevant competent services would be able to come instead would be eligible for the shares. What the hell did the state have to get in there and spend that money?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We what? Do you understand this business better than a strategic investor would have done? Instead, the country has thrown 57 million into business, from which it doesn't understand anything! And what happens next? When we asked the Prime Minister to explain this situation, of course, he refused to do it, the Minister for Economics did it, who explained that it was done with the loan and that everything had been calculated very well: we took the loan from the Treasury, and the loan would be so large that the dividends that we would then receive for the acquisition of these shares would be covered by the repayment of this loan. Now we see nothing like that. Now this money needs something to get back, because this scheme won't work. And if we look at the financial indicators, then here's a interesting story again. When the Minister for Economics asked: “Give the grounds for all of this!” - he was unable to state any economic justification. He was asked: “Well tell me how you see the future turnover of this company? How many of these shares could be paid? What will be the return of all this? What is the investment programme that this company needs so that this share price can really be justified?’ The Minister for Economics could not say anything like that at all. The usual scheme worked here. It is, in substance, the same “Citadeles” in the opposite direction. If the “Citadel” field was that the state sold something cheaply to someone, then the country buys something expensive here, attracting an investor, attracting a consultant, hiding this transaction... “Why did you do that?” “Well, the consultant told us, so we did it.” If we look at these figures, there are obviously unrealistic things. Firstly, the deal is EUR 57 million, for which about a third of the shares are purchased. If we look at this, the total annual turnover of Conexus is about 50-55 million. All turnover, yeah! Accordingly, the forecast profit is around five million. That means that the part that the country will receive... Within 30 years, even without discounting, it will not be possible to get back this money. It is clear why this was done in 2017 together with tax reform. Due to these manipulations Conexus accounts for a large amount of profits for 2017. But the real, reasonable profit that the company will make from the operation will be about five million. Interesting nuance, colleagues! Recently, at the beginning of this year, there was “Dienas Business” conference “Energy 2018”, where one of the investors who wanted to buy Conexus shares spoke. And he told everyone publicly that he was ready to buy them. There was no more or less a deal, but then suddenly the State promised a three times larger amount. The question is: in what interest did this transaction take place and in what interest do we now pay all their money? This was done in the interest of the State or in the interest of individual shareholders of Conexus, so that they could make a good profit? And now we put all of this in the budget. At the same time, science, innovation has no money. It says, “Wait for entos years!” On the other hand, we find immediately money to fund this transaction. Why don't you stick to the scheme that you promised the public? You have written to the Saeima that it is a loan that will then finance the dividends and that no money is needed. Why is this money now being used in this way? We have nowhere to put money - these 57 million? Ask scientists, ask teachers, ask those who work in health care! I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U505	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U506	Dear colleagues, This is another proof that the Members of the Saeima are only treated as such a voting machine. ( Subtotal: “To fools! ”) ) The only explanation for investing 57 million is: “Look at the Excel table! The pros and cons come together. There is no further deficit here.’ No explanation of how the company will actually be able to repay the money! Because already at the time when the money was lent, it was clear that the company was not financially capable of raising such loans. But still the loan was given. Now it has proof that the state itself has to buy all this company because it does not work on business principles. But nothing in the world is for free. We will all pay for this together - the taxpayers - so that the business can exist in the future at all. You think the government has given the company every year... In the next three years... It is likely that, if we take account of their trend, dividends will have to cost about EUR 602 million from now on. This really means at least 30 years in order to repay such capital in accordance with the current rules. We realize that everything is more expensive in our lives. And I also do not support this kind of decision when a government with such disrespect comes to Members, but you are ready to simply blind, seeing a few lines, without any explanation, to spend more than EUR 57 million on taxpayers' money, without knowing at all how that money will be used, how that money will be returned. ( Intercretion: “Sorry! ” ) Regrettably!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U507	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U508	To get you to understand the consistency of this transaction. In fact, this transaction has created a gas OIC, because now, of course, in the country, this excessively abnormal, let us say, investment will have to be recovered. And how will this be done? Of course, pumping - similar to doing so through Latvenergo. Now it's going to be done through Conexus. That is what you will achieve. So congratulations to you on the gas OIC! That's one thing. And the other thing. Colleagues, I am calling for: remembering this morning's events, think very much whether something similar can be formed around this deal. Because, by the nature of the matter, you could really make a parliamentary commission here... But certainly in the next parliamentary term, it will be possible to investigate this transaction and find out how this price was determined, how the whole transaction was directed and how it was in the interest of... And in particular, check out the facts that have been made public at the energy conference, which I have already mentioned, that the private investor had the opportunity to buy these shares at three times the price, but suddenly the state bought them at another price. A very interesting story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U509	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U510	Colleagues! A very interesting situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “Has?” ) When the Association of the Regions of Latvia invited Mr Asheraden to his group... by the way, this question, if the memory doesn't contaminate me, we also asked Dana Mrs. Reizniece-Ozola... Then the questions were quite exactly: why was this transaction secret at the end of the year? (How much it cost - we now know.) The questions were clearly formulated, and those who wanted these interesting answers can be seen on the Facebook page of the Association of the Regions of Latvia because they were on Facebook Live. And it asked whether the budget would be used for this purchase. And if there's no memory, the minister said, "No, these expenditures will not lie on the budget. Does this mean that consumers will have to pay for the purchase of this company? Because it is likely to be a burden on tariffs. The answer was no, too. Consequently, by bringing everything together, I am calling - perhaps a journalist is listening, usually Mr Zander is doing this - very carefully following - to look at this video record and to put together these questions, the answers and the specific allocation of appropriations for the allocation of more than 50 million to the public limited company High tension network in order to finance a transaction which was secreted in December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U511	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U512	Yeah, colleagues. Not everything is always measurable in Excel tables and other calculations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “To be measured in Kukuļi! In the cues!’ ) In this case, it is difficult to talk, Mr. Zarins, about energy security or not... energy independence. And in this case, this issue is also relevant in the context of this deal. I call for support for this appropriation.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U513	Please call me! We will vote for the increase of the appropriations set in the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the increase of the appropriations set in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 46, for - 3 and for - 18. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U514	Colleagues! This has been examined by the Commission and has decided to accept the reallocation of appropriations for the 2018 budget. From the budget programme of the Ministry of Finance “Prosecution of Payments to Other Public Institutions and Persons” funding is redistributed to the budget programme of the Ministry of Culture “Cultural Heritage” in the amount of one million 594 thousand EUR 961. Similarly, the funding of the exhibition hall “Arsenāls” at the Latvian National Museum to cover the expenses of the increased real estate tax at Tornu iela 1, Riga, is redistributed, and accordingly the funding of the budget sub-programme “The Latvian State Centenary Programme” for the transfer of 98 thousand euros to the Latvian Society of Politically Repressed Cesis to ensure the implementation of the events “The History Exhibition in Cesis “The Fire of the Heart”. This reallocation has been approved by the Commission. I also invite you to support the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U515	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U516	Dear colleagues, With regard to this appropriation, I would like to make two brief points. One thing. Talking about a careful and caring host. A million and 743 thousand are, of course, not money that has been saved this year because, let us assume, the project would have been cheaper. If the implementation of the project is delayed, this does not mean that the money should be spent. I think that any of you, especially if you do something in private business and the project is delayed, do not spend that money on something else, knowing that the project will have to continue next year. And the other thing. I certainly respect very much and appreciate each person's initiative, a private initiative, because a person invests in it, but I believe very much that without the Latvian Society of Politically Repressed Cesis there are many other societies and groups, and people who by their private means do very good things for both cultural heritage, preserving the historical heritage, helping children, elderly people, dogs, cats and so on... The question is how transparent it is that funding is distributed, why there is one who gets some particular advantage, in particular, is noticed and evaluated against everyone else. If you remember, we made amendments to the law that all organisations have the same right to be eligible for funding if they are engaged in supporting the activities of society or in preserving the cultural and historical heritage. That is why, once again, with a clear respect for each initiative and, in particular, with respect for what is being done by the politically oppressed Cēsis: I believe that this is not fair to the others - one specific organisation to distribute and thus ensure that funding is obtained.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U517	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U518	Madam President, Dear colleagues, There is a clear need for repressive funding, there is a clear need for funding for increasing the share capital of state-owned companies, but the year is only in the middle... Not even in the middle... And we know very well how the budget goes, what the budget's revenue is: in four months, VAT is 96 per cent, with a growing economy, and so on. Revenue from other taxes is not so good. And we are now, in the middle of the year, simply taking this money out of the public budget with a light hand and shifting it to other priorities that have not been decided upon in the budget process. We understand that early or late, if tax revenues are not sufficient and if there are other unpredictable things that we cannot anticipate (such as the banking crisis, its impact on the economy), then we will have to open up this budget and start consolidating this year. In addition, consolidation will be required next year, as minus 40 million fiscal space is already being earmarked next year. However, this year, if we continue to divide 55 million and one and a half million to the right and to the left in this style, we may have to pay for it quite sadly at the end of the year. So I very much call on you to reflect before supporting such decisions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U519	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U520	Colleagues, I want to comfort Mr. Matīss: the budget is being fulfilled. The budget is very good! Implementation of the budget on 1 June - 100,8 per cent. And in the first quarter, we have had the fastest-growing economy in the European Union. ( Milestones.) So there's no problem in this case. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U521	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U522	I invite you to support the appropriations.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U523	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2018””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 3, for - 17. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading of the draft law on referendums of local governments (76/Lp12), which was adopted until this year. 1 July’. Although we, the Saeima, have indeed already expressed our decision, the draft decision is on the agenda and it is also to be voted on. ‘ Lolita Čigāne, Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U524	Dear colleagues, Mr Dolgopolov said that this draft law requires some minor technical corrections. Of course, technical corrections have already been identified. If this is the case, the MoEPRD can certainly prepare and submit these small known technical corrections by 1 July, and then this draft law will finally be able to move towards the third reading at the Saeima. Please support the nearest deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U525	Mr. Sergey Dolgopolov, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U526	It would be good if we were to find the right addressees to ask them questions. This question, Mrs Chigannes, is a minister's question, not a commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U527	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the third reading of the draft law on local government referendums (76/Lp12) by the following year. 1 July’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 41, for - 1. The draft decision is not supported. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. Draft decision “On task for the Prime Minister to prepare a report to the Saeima revealing the chronology of implementation of the mandatory procurement component and the persons who took decisions on the matter”. On behalf of the applicants, is Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U528	Colleagues! This is the final item on the agenda for this sitting. But this is very important because our economies, our economic competitiveness, are based on three pillars. The first is human resources, access and labour costs (including taxation). ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) There have been attempts here to sort out this matter - both tax reform and education reform. Second. Economic competitiveness is based on financial availability, resources and costs. We have commercial banks, we have the Latvian Development Finance Institution Altum, which helps to develop entrepreneurs. And the third is the resources, their availability and costs. I just looked at the latest data. We are still with a good breakthrough in terms of energy prices - the most expensive in the Baltic and northern Europe, both in the private sector and in terms of entrepreneurs. If we look at how much we spend on OIC, it is EUR 279 million. It cost consumers so much in 2017. 860 thousand households each averaged €324. 2.3 billion have been paid and 1.5 billion have to be paid, and these commitments are in force until 2034. So together, colleagues, this is an issue of almost EUR 4 billion. If we count on the number of households, it is EUR 4307 per Latvian household. There have been many loud statements from this troupe that it is a macroeconomic error and we will cancel the OIC... There have been specific decisions below, and the OIC burden has been shifted from a few large energy-intensive businesses to small, medium-sized enterprises and households. Things like power components and others appear. An interesting point is that a number of large companies are allowed to connect to the high-voltage transmission networks, thereby circumventing the distribution tariff. Nobody has yet explained - and it is a pity that there is no Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics - how this will affect the ability of other electricity invoices to pay these bills or how it will respond to these bills. In fact, 79 million of the state budget, because it is Latvenergo's profits, which must come to the state budget, are diverted in advance to pay an OIC bill in order to precisely reduce the tension among the population and to reduce by 12 percent - just for this moment! - OIC payments. Significant date is April 17th: In the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers a decision was taken on the creation of a working group (other than the one) “for the abolition of the system of mandatory electricity procurement component”. The government has therefore committed itself to abolishing the OIC system. It is two months later, on 17 June, that experts from the working group of the government have already admitted that it is not possible to abolish the electricity mandatory procurement system, or OIC, as this would lead to litigation against hundreds of millions of losses that the State would have to pay to electricity producers. There is, of course, a deadline for the working group - 1 August - to come with the final report, the final conclusions, and to fulfil the task of the working group - to abolish the OIC, because that is exactly what has been given. It is quite clear to us today that it will not be possible to abolish. At the time, colleagues were issued about a thousand permits, and now only scandals have resulted in the withdrawal of permits for more than ten companies - in fact only for those that have been intensively reported by the Latvian media. Currently, there are thick versions of various politicians and journalists in the public space for who is responsible, who has created it, who has signed it, and who has signed it. The question is simple: who will take responsibility for the EUR 3.8 billion issue? That is why the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia has decided to request objective information - such facts (not versions, but dry facts!) , full details of decisions taken since 2007. In essence, if the Prime Minister sees it as useful... In fact, even it turns out that it is even earlier - from 2005. So we are asking for full information about both the decisions taken that constituted this OIC and the specific persons whose signatures remain below the relevant documents. It is interesting that the Prime Minister consciously or unconsciously distances from the OIC issue and exterminates it... shall be placed under the responsibility of only one minister. And the question is: is the question of almost four billion worth of money not a serious reason for the Prime Minister and the senior government officials to be personally involved in this matter, rather than simply leaving it to one minister? For this very reason, the Latvian Association of Regions wishes to give the Prime Minister the task of preparing a report to the Saeima, revealing the chronology of implementation of the mandatory procurement component and the persons who took decisions on the matter. And it consists of two chapters. First, to prepare and submit a report to the Saeima within one month, which would include an overview of the full chronology of the implementation of the OIC since 2007 (what decisions and during which decisions were taken), specifying the persons who have taken those decisions. Secondly, indicate in the report the persons who have signed (in person, with their signatures!) authorisations granted to undertakings to sell their electricity within the framework of compulsory procurement. Colleagues! If it is almost clear what will be the result of the first August task force, then the only thing we can do is to find out dry facts about who is responsible for this four billion euro issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U529	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the task of the Prime Minister to prepare a report to the Saeima, revealing the chronology of the implementation of the mandatory procurement component and the persons who took decisions on the matter”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Thank you. It's time for registration. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš - for a statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U530	The Foreign Affairs Commission will meet in the Foreign Affairs Commission room in 15 or 20 minutes. I invite everyone to come.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U531	Name Gunārs Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U532	Dear colleagues, Has not registered: Inesis Boķis, Aleksandrs Jakimovs, Artuss Kaimiņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Nally Kleinberga, Ivans Klementjevs, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Atis Lejiņš, Aivars Meija, Romanas Mežeckis, Andris Morozovs, Juris Šulcs, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Upenieks, Jānis Vucāns. Morozov is not? Morozov! ( The box “What? ”) ) Morozova was not? ( The box “Orlovs? ”) ) Morozov!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-06-20-PT12-489-U533	Mr. Curry, are you still going on? Is that it? Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
