ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room so that we can begin the 27th September sitting! First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. Members Kūtris, Vucanas, Kalniņš, Dauge and Brigmanis are asking for the 15th paragraph of the agenda - the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law - to be moved and considered as the last point. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” be placed on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Land Vehicle Owners” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the Exchange of Data in the Population Register” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Ilmārs Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U2	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Members! I invite you not to support this draft law, these amendments, because the draft law determines what traditional Latvian Church is... organizations... not even denominations, but in this case - organizations, and the bill is excluded from the traditional Church list of Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balodis: “What does it have to do?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) The draft law thus introduces a list here - which is then the traditional Latvian Church... not even in Latvia, but in Latvia. There are methodists, there are Baptists, there are Latvian (or Moscow) Orthodox Church, there are Roman Catholics, there are old believers, there are Jewish religious communities (Dep. I. Laizāne: “What connection?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “) are adventists... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) But we already have this dispute from previous laws, when the Saeima positions on one side in the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church Law. My “no” is based on the last days of negotiations with both Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church Administration outside Latvia - Archbishop Lauma Zušēvičs, emeritus of Archbishops Elmārs Ernst Rosīte, the trials Karlis Jolu and Klāvs Berzins - as well as with PBLA Administration. It is clear that we have to aim at one church, but there is a historical situation that has developed after the Second World War, that the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia was the continuation of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church, provided moral and material assistance to the Church in Latvia and its restoration and also helped to restore independence. I'm not going to tell you this long story. I would remind you of Egil Levit’s figurative statement: “They are two branches of one tree. - these two Lutheran Churches.’ And respect must be shown to both, because although the name is “Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia”, this Lutheran Church has six churches in Latvia, there will be eight. Today, there are more than 800 members of these congregations. We are also talking about the Diaspora law. We say: Diaspora - they belong to Latvia, they are part of Latvia. When we talk about the Church, we try to separate. I understand that there will be important legal fines to which you can refer, and these are... might look very important, but at the same time with this law... we do not require anyone to do this at this point, but we have an urgent need to strengthen where it is... I won't even say - the dispute... there is no consensus on some issues, and we have historically two Lutheran Churches. They will be agreed - honourable Members, they will be agreed! - If we don't. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Laizāne: “This is not the law!” ; Subscription: “Other law!” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “This is not the Saeima!” ; intermediate call: “Stop fluttering!” ) It is a law on religious organizations (Dep. R.Balodis: “You mix the laws!” ), the same law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “Let a man speak!” ) There are currently two laws confused, where there is the same thing, but I am referring to the law on religious organizations. And let these Churches agree! When the honorable Churches... their respected leadership will come to Members and say, "We have agreed, and now lead the law!" Then we'll do it. Now we're going to come back to... It's very important... as if very important legal norms, but at the moment no one is asking us to do so - to hurry in front of one side of the dispute. I therefore call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U3	Ms. Ringolds Balodis has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U4	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I think there's a foam coming up here and, of course, it's a foam coming up... ( Milestones.) Not my colleague Putra! I didn't think so this time! Here's the confusion that has arisen, okay... because basically here we are looking at amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations, which are encouraged by the Ministry of Justice... because the Constitutional Court held in its judgment of 26 April 2017 No.2017-18-01 that the second part of Section 7 of the Law on Religious Organisations is partially incompatible with Articles 99 and 102 of the Satversme and the third part of Section 7 and the fourth part of Section 8 of the Law on Religious Organisations is completely incompatible with Articles 99 and 102 of the Satversme. Of course, to some extent it also has a connection with the Lutherans, because the Ministry of Justice offers a solution - to supplement the law with Article 1.1, which lists the traditional Churches. But this is not related to the situation discussed by Ilmars Latkovska; as I have already mentioned, it is related to the judgment of the Constitutional Court. And now it's all right, how many were there? - for five months there is a contradiction between the rule of law of the Constitutional Court and the Law on Religious Organisations. So what we are talking about is that we need to be corrected: we need to be corrected! - those cases referred to by the Constitutional Court. We can discuss interpretation: we need or should not support the offer of the Ministry of Justice. But, Ilmar, that's not the case! You're a little bit like... We must comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, whatever emotions we may have, whatever kind of church we wish to see... So, colleagues, I am asking you to support the handover of the draft law. And also, as rapporteur from the Commission, I will explain the nuances associated with this law. Please do not confuse this situation and support amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U5	Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations” (No 1351/Lp12) to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 66, against - 1, refraining from - 11. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the transfer of real estate to the Association of Free Trade Union of Latvia” presented by Member Putra, Siliņa, Brigmanis, Trupovnieks and Kalniņa be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Mežulis, Adamovich, Dzintara, Krumina, Skujiņa and Morozova refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” presented by the Saeima’s State Administration and Municipal Commission be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the handover of the draft law... Is that so? ( From the group VL-TB/LNNK: Yes!) ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - 10, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the electricity market law presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For granting unpaid leave to a Member, Mr Gustovskis, on 4 October this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Arta Gustovsky requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 4 October of this year. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to the Member, Mr Gustovskis, on 4 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 85, it's two, it's not. ( Insight: “The President will have to vote! ” ) Unpaid leave is granted. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board And so on the agenda - Member Julia Stepanenko, Inguna Silver, Aivars Meija, Mihaila Zemļinska, Ivana Ribakova, Vladimira Nikonova, Janis Adamsona, Zenta Tretjaka, Igora Zuvėv, Arthur Rubika and Romana Miloslavska apply to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On measures to protect the interests of the society “Papardes Zieds” financed by the Society’s Society and Open Society Foundations for the Elimination of Article 10.1 of the Law on Education”. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U6	Good morning, colleagues! The request made by Members of the Saeima, Jūlia Stepanenko, Inguna Silverba, Aivars Maya and others of our colleagues to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On measures to protect the interests of the society Papardes Zieds, funded by the Society Integration Fund and Open Society Funds, to repeal Article 10.1 of the Education Law” has been examined. The Commission meeting was quite interesting, active, with different views. There was a repeat vote on this request. And since there was no majority in the vote or in the second vote in support of this request, this request was rejected in accordance with Rule 141 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure roll. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “ August, which request has been pending?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U7	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U8	Dear colleagues, Can Latvian laws be bought? Yeah, it looks like it can. I'll tell you how. To begin with: let us remember why we are all here in the Saeima! Four years ago, more than 900 thousand citizens of Latvia have given their votes for each of us. And by giving their votes, they entrusted us with taking decisions that would be based on our good faith, hoping that we are independent, because “the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia”. ( You see these words in the Constitution here too - in the inscription on the wall.) But what if a foreign oligarch appeared, who would consider our decisions, our work, our independence and the will of the people to be an empty sound; who would think that the Members of the Saeima are puppets, easy to manipulate media campaigns and emotionally would be convinced that the sovereign power of the state of Latvia is a fiction and that the nation of Latvia has no say in this country, because it is necessary to just pay, connect the necessary campaign, slightly address the Members - and the thing is done! And what would happen if the Latvian law enforcement authorities, whose day and night monitor the security of the state, in order to prevent potential threats to the state at all levels of the state, considered such a situation to be normal, and the state would also raise funds from the taxpayers' pocket to such a loss of sovereign power? We turn to the Commission for Requests, because the situation I have shown is a documentary one. This morning I have sent you all the following two documents by e-mail. Since 2016, a project on foreign oligarch George Soros Foundation's Open Society Foundations has been implemented in Latvia. And the purpose of this project can be found in the report transmitted to you (page 7). I will read: ‘By the 2018 Parliamentary elections, get the Education Act amended again on the agenda for political debate with a view to promoting the abolition of these amendments in the parliamentary term of the current or next Saeima.’ The SIF has also allocated more than 13 thousand euros for similar purposes. We asked the Request Commission why the purpose of the SIF project is for the pre-election period? We have been told: 'For Members, here are more lenient and more sensitive before the elections!' That means - sliding, convincing emotional arguments prepared for this purpose by 14 people of PR agency, as you can read in this report. We did not receive an answer to our question to the Commission on Petitions either. But I would like to know personally how you each see the situation that George Soros pays tens of thousands of euros each year for REACH. MOVE. HANGE implementation in Latvia. As you can read it, the project is clearly directed against Latvian law by applying the media campaign, PR agency services and by providing for special activities during the election period. This is not only a matter of national security, but also of our self-esteem. I do not know if we will ever be able to achieve the level that the leaders of the Hungarian people have achieved - a level of self-esteem. They have said no to the cynical business of human displacement, driving Sorosa Open Society Foundations from Hungary. Consider, for example, a situation that offends the self - respect of another country. What would happen if England, for example, made a decision that we do not like? Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, we heard that Mr Leeniņa had expressed his opinion on Brexit. He said that, in his opinion, Brexit was the wrong decision and the second... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Rightly right!” ) Yes, there will be a second referendum on Brexit. That is Mr Leienny's view, and we respect that. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “It’s absolutely right!” ) But, Mr. Leiens, even if you were oligarch... I think Mr Lejiņš would not have to think about spending his money on interfering in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. Because, if Mr. Leienny did it, he would be raised from Britain and he would be a person non grata just as George Soros has been declared a person non grata because he played with the British currency. Whatever the purpose of this fund and how much benefit from its activities, you must not support the principle that the will of the people of Latvia, the work of the Saeima and the decisions taken are to be changed by money. Soros has openly named the price to the Latvian law. If he is able to amend it this time, the sovereignty of our country will be decided for destruction, because the next laws could be the Law on National Security, the Satversme... every law will simply have its own price. In fact, I have my place in the tribunal here should be the leaders of the security authorities and they should account to us, Members, why they have laid this far-reaching intervention in the internal affairs of the country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Look less at it from the Kremlin’s prism, Mrs Stepanenko! We are in the European Union, not in Russia!” ) This request, my fellow Members, has not been fully dealt with, and no replies have been received, because Mr Kučinski did not come to the Panel. He's quietly silent. I invite you to support this request because the sovereign power of the state of Latvia belongs to the people of Latvia and not to foreign oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U9	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U10	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! In Latvia, compared to other European Union countries, HIV transmission... What do you think... is one of the highest. In 2015, Latvia had the second highest incidence of newly detected HIV infection in the European Union. Second highest! And this indicator was 3.5 times higher than the average in Europe. It is our new generation, and in 2017 almost one-fourth... Well, actually one quarter of all new HIV cases in Latvia... infected persons aged between zero and 29 years. ( From the Group's point of view, "What does it have to do with the demand?" ) That is our new generation. I was terrifyingly imagining what would happen in Latvia if there were no “Papardes flower”! I know what would happen in Latvia because “Paparde flower” has been raised from Putin Russia. And what statistics are there now? All right, let's listen! In 2017, there were 93000 young patients officially in Russia. New! The indicator is 63,3 per thousand inhabitants. And it is more than three times more than our country, Latvia, and more than 10 times more - the average European indicator. And it can be seen that Russia is not able to cope. Thank God for having the “Paparde Flower” that does something to limit this! May we teach our young ones what we need to learn! Let's ban it? Let's not ban it! In fact, they are entitled to the Order of Three Stars, they are saving our youth. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U11	The name of Member Lolita Chigan. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “There are no more serious things to talk about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear members of the Bureau. Dear colleagues, We like to be proud that we are an open parliament. Every year we have a Youth Saeima where our young people sit in your seats and discuss matters that are important to them. Every year there is a forum of Saeima and non-governmental organisations, attended by committee leaders and reaffirms the importance of our civil society organisations. But, colleagues, would I really like to hear non-governmental organisations in the Social and Labour Commission, for example,... that you're told only things you like? Would you like to hear only compliments? Is it not very important for us to hear constructive, qualitative criticisms that encourage us to change, which makes us to become louder? Dear colleagues, Non-governmental organisations are like gynians, their voice needs to be heard throughout the forest, and they work with the biggest problems and the most painful issues. If we want to silence these “gooses”... We live in a totalitarian country or Putin in Russia? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: ‘There is no other word - only Putin!’ ) Obviously, such a country wants to introduce Jūlija Stepanenko here, attacking the “Papardes flower”, which has said unpleasant but very important things for us. Colleagues! For funding. We know very well that our country has not always given sufficient support to its non-governmental organisations. More recently, we have set up an NGO fund that supports our non-governmental organisations but, at the same time, we have carried out a tax reform that has been a huge blow to our non-governmental organisations in terms of getting funding. Therefore, honourable colleagues, here and now, I deeply put my head in front of every association that determinedly, enthusiastically... in our country. As we love our country, we continue to fight for issues of social importance. And such an organization is undoubtedly also “Papardes flower”. Therefore, I call on all of you, and therefore, Mrs. Ribena, not to follow this practice of Putin Russia and to say no to this proposal for persecution, Mrs. Ribena! I am asking for a 'no' vote. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U13	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U14	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Although my nine group colleagues have signed the request, I will vote against it. ( From the group Unity: “Love! ” Fractional Unity Applications.) I'll explain why. I understand the society “Paparde Flower”, which calls for changes to Article 10.1 of the Education Law “Education and Virtue”. In 2015, I voted against the inclusion of this norm in the law. I also believe that this article should be excluded from law and not amended (Applause) , as offered by “Papardes flower”. There are three reasons for this. First. The phrase “education system provides moral education for learners” (end of quote), as well as the desire to protect educator (retext) “from information that does not match moral development” (end of quote) means the inevitable formalisation of moral education in standards and guidelines, the description of moral and immoral behaviour in methodological materials. This means that school managers and teachers are also required to follow and ensure that their behaviour is in line with moral behaviour. In addition, we are well aware that control measures for introducing the new content often decrease until the external signs of compliance are checked. All of this means that the evidence of “right” moral behaviour becomes more important than the true attitude of students. A person’s intention to act in such a way that people around him are aware of her behavior, to act in order to stand out, to fit into his environment, and to gain public recognition, has long been in contact with people, and is called hypocrisy. Let us admit that following values in a free society can be expressed in various forms, sometimes rather controversial and even challenging. In schools, however, the task of educators... the contents must be visible after the forms. And only in cases where a person's self-esteem is persecuted if a student's conscience is not broken... then raise the alarm. This is precisely the task of training learners, not of protecting them from information that does not match moral development. The second reason why I am in favour of excluding the rule from the law is as follows. This article is becoming a link or rather an obstacle to the development of gender learning at school. Their Society “Paparde Flower” has already explained in its letter; I don’t think I will do it better. Third. The consistent implementation of this norm retains the further stigmatisation of homosexuals in the new generations of Latvian society, hypocritically on the pretext of protecting the family. On petitions of demand to the association “Papardes žieds” and also to the Society Integration Fund. Can a state institution grant state funding or taxpayers' money to non-governmental organisations whose aim was to achieve the repeal of the law of the Republic of Latvia? Article 100 of the Satversme guarantees everyone the right to freedom of expression, which includes the right to freely acquire, retain and disseminate information, to express their views. In Article 102, however, there are certain rights to unite in associations. The wish to repeal the existing provision is not unlawful. Article 80 of the Criminal Law prohibits only such activities which are directed against the state independence, sovereignty, territorial unity, state power or state facilities of the Republic of Latvia in a manner not provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. It shall not be prohibited to call or finance calls for such legislative or even constitutional changes which do not infringe the procedures provided for such changes. There is also no prohibition on state institutions to fund activities aimed at repealing the law. State, gentlemen, does not exist to defend yourself! The state exists to defend the rights enshrined in the laws of the people from whom the state receives money. And if the association of citizens organises activities, the institution set up by the State shall have the right to allocate budgetary resources to it. The authors of the request further ask the question: are the activities of NGOs, which are paid from a foreign organisation established by a private person and which are aimed at repealing a specific law of the Republic of Latvia not considered to be interference in the internal affairs of the State of Latvia? And is there any danger of the state independence of the Republic of Latvia in a foreign funded project aimed at repealing the law of the Republic of Latvia? No, it's not a threat. ( The box “Yes! ”) Thank you very much. Certain foreign countries must respect the principle of not interfering in the internal affairs of Latvia. However, the signatories themselves point out that “Paparde Flower” received funding from a foreign organisation established by a private person and not from the country itself. Did Open Society Foundations intervene in Latvia's internal affairs? No, no! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Adamson, “Go now!” ) Non-interference in internal affairs – this principle does not apply to foreign individuals. Also, the articles of the Satversme on human rights quoted by me provide guarantees of this right for everyone on the territory of Latvia, as well as foreigners. Foreigners, like Latvian nationals, shall not be prohibited from calling or financing such calls for changes to Latvian legislation or even the Constitution that do not violate the procedures provided for such changes. In summary, I refer to the guidelines on freedom of association issued jointly by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe and the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights in 2014, which clearly state that associations are free to seek, receive and exploit financial, material and human resources, and that countries do not need to restrict or suspend access to resources internally or abroad, nor do they need to shame those who receive such resources. There is no basis for the request, so I will vote against the handing over of the request to the Prime Minister. (Applause) And I want to say that this is precisely this! - the reasoning was used in the European Parliament to condemn Hungary... The action of the Hungarian state, which was directly directed against freedom of expression in their country. ( Fractional Unity, intermediate: “That’s right! With all due respect! Right!” ) I do not think that this demand will bring glory to our country. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U15	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U16	Highly honored Saeima! Thank you to Mr Pimenova because his speech allows me to shorten my speech because before... we have just heard the lies of my colleague Julia Stepanenko that no answers have been received to the questions raised in the request. This is a lie, because the Commission for the Requests included representatives of both the Society Integration Foundation, the Ministry of Culture and the “Papardes Flower” and provided answers on how to help young people through health learning. I don't know. Listen to the following in the direction of “Papardes flower”... It was quite strange to hear it, because in the end... Mr Pimenova has just made it very clear what it means to receive funding from a private person who is not involved in national security issues, so it is quite strange to hear such a speech. And I am calling therefore for this request to be rejected. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U17	The name of Member Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U18	Dear colleagues, In our country, there is a foreign capital-funded organisation which, as its objective, has been to amend the law of a sovereign parliament elected in democratic elections. A situation in which people who have bought foreign money try to influence or take over sovereign power of the state is already unique or new, for example, the so-called professional revolutionarys in Russia were financed by foreign magnets. Revolutionarys had enough mind and shame not to require additional funding from the crown’s cashier for their underground cells. The idea that the state should deliberately finance its own death seemed to be too exotic at that time. But if, as a result of the fault of an official, the crown money had come to the disposal of elements hostile to the state, they would hardly have been able to sign off with the pitiful paper that the Ministry of Culture has offered us with Mr Shadursky's signature. In this respect, we must also look at the current events in the United States, where foreign influence has been revealed in the last presidential elections. The guilty American officials will have to face the trial, and experts think, for example, that Paul Manafort will spend the rest of his life in prison. I am interested in this: what fate in our country awaits those officials whose budget resources for non-governmental organisations have been allocated to a foreign project aimed at influencing not only the will of the Saeima, but obviously even its composition, because the Open Society Foundations project, implemented by the Papardes flower, aims to bring an end to the "changes in morality" "in the term of the present or next Saeima". From history. The so-called moral changes in the Education Law were a response to efforts to cause early damage to our children's vulnerable moral conscience. In my opinion, protecting children is a sacred duty of state power. If these amendments were some misunderstanding, a paranoid unification of some politicians, they would not have bothered anyone and had long been forgotten. But the hysteria of its resistance, the campaign of lies and demagogic half-truths, which was brought up against these amendments and is still resting for the fourth year, only shows how current and necessary these amendments have been. It shows how influential the demorisation forces are, how well they are organised and well funded. ‘ The paparde flower is called a non-governmental organisation, but in fact it could be just as well called a handicraft group or cantor of horn and nail procurement. Our country has been living in a hybrid war for years, and our politicians and officials could, however, be asked to understand how a non-governmental organisation differs from a body of influence financed by foreign capital, which perhaps only masks behind a non-governmental organisation. The Ministry of Culture is concerned that (I quote) "the country is reducing its participation in traditional forms of civic participation". But how can this involvement not be reduced if the Society Integration Fund allocates funds to rich, foreign-funded and state-dangered projects that have nothing to do with traditional "civil participation", whereas genuine NGOs like certain disabled societies and similar have never received any support from this fund?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Lībiņa-Egnere: “It’s not true!” ) The Ministry responds to us without any political understanding. As if a foreign influence society that has clearly formulated its objective - to influence the sovereign power of our country - would be in one bag with non-governmental organisations that, on their own initiative and without any other funding, have formed citizens of our own country. Do we feel so confident that we can afford such short-sightedness and self - control? In my opinion, we cannot see this situation formally and we must be able to see damage to national sovereignty in good time. True democracy must, of course, face many challenges: this time it is a test with Soros money. Today, the ideology of globalism with political correctness, genderism, cosmopolitism, multiculturalism, hypertolerance and other similar ideas under the human rights cover is actually disrupting the current system of moral values, breaking down essential human identities. Archbishop Stankevičs warns: in order not to repeat the history of the 20th century, society must recognize the germs of the third totalitarianism - moral relativism, ultra-liberalism, gradual "dissolution of values", shift of accents from values to consumption, as well as the power of money. It is, in fact, a question of Latvia as a democratic state. At the moment, we behave as if we had been forced or gifted by democracy. However, democracy is a historic choice for our people. And our fathers of democracy, not sitting in Soros's offices, but lying in the Cemetery of Brothers. In short, the answer given by the Ministry of Culture will not make me clear, but make me ask two important questions. First. In the current context of hybrid war, could "non-governmental organisations", whose main source of finance is not America, but Russia, for example, be eligible for funding under the Society Integration Fund? Second. The Society Integration Fund has allocated budgetary resources to the project aimed at amending the Law on Education of the Republic of Latvia by repealing “changes in morality”. Could such funding also be eligible for a ‘non-governmental organisation’ aimed at amending the State language law by granting the status of a second language such as Russian? In the current ministerial response, I can only read between rows a positive answer to both questions. But how far is it possible that any foreign power wants to amend in our sovereign country the Law on Education, the Law on the State Language or any other basic law that is closely related to the guidelines and values of our Constitution? Here I think preventive action should be taken before the theoretical possibility becomes a reality. Unless it's already. That should also be checked. A true democracy must be able and, above all, want to defend itself. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U19	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U20	I really don't like hypocrisy when you see it from the parliamentary tribunal. Some cubes say that the attack on these organizations comes from the bloody forces. This is a total stupidity, because Igors Pimenovs, in my opinion, is one of the largest foamists in the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. (Laughter) He was in favour of multilingualism, he has supported many other national initiatives, and he is at the same time enlisted with the largest liberals of the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Žigāne: “We are not in the rocks!” ) And it is true that there is really a very close link between these socialists and liberals. I remember what happened a few years ago in the Committee on European Affairs. ( Milestones.) A few years ago, in the European Commission for European Affairs, to pass through the decision to accept refugees in Latvia, these voices were stirred from the “Centre of Reconciliation” - Unity was with the “Centre of Reconciliation”. Of course, the Latvian Association of Regions helped... ( FROM a faction: “Ai, ai, ai!” ) I have an invitation right now. I have a call... Mrs. Chigan, the first one to speak... As we know, she comes from the organizations funded by this Open Society Foundations. And could it be that after this parliamentary election, Mrs. Chiganas will start working in one of the societies (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “No! It won't happen! It won’t happen!’ ) financed by the Open Society Foundations? Please come and say that you will never be involved in working for such organisations in the coming years! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “Come on, come on!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U21	Member Astrid Harjus.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U22	Dear Saeima! I am also working on the Commission for Petitions, and this issue has already been addressed last week. Today, I was told what Mr. Pimenova said. Thank you. And, following on from you, I would also like to express my thoughts to the public. So when I look at the current request and answer Commissioner Julia Stepanenko's questions, I have the following opinion. First of all, the content of the law must be in line with the purpose of the law, because the purpose of the law is to learn what is to be learned by a teenager and a young person. In particular, “to acquire knowledge and skills in the fields of human, social, natural and technical knowledge; to acquire knowledge, skills, experience of attitudes to participate in society and state life; to acquire moral, aesthetic, intellectual and physical development by promoting the development of a knowledgeable, skilled and educated personality”. Thus, having regard to the aim of the law, the State has not provided financial resources or a direct function to the public administration or delegated it to the non-governmental sector... to carry out the second paragraph of the law in Article 10.1 for certain Members. This lobbying is perhaps even from the ideologies of a neighbouring country that is close to us. But by its very nature, this provision is, in my opinion, illegal. What does it determine? ‘ The educational institution, with the exception of universities, shall protect the educator from information and methods in the process of education and education which do not correspond to the provision of the educational moral development included in the aim of this Law.” The norm of this law contains an impossible mission. Protect? How?Oh, no, How can a teacher in today’s Internet age do so at school? How the school can ensure this... protect? Only by educating a child in a way that is understandable to him, teaching a teenager and a young person to learn about their reproductive health, body structure, sexual behaviour; teaching the skills to protect themselves and to be aware of borders. Statistics on what is happening to our children, as we have just heard today, are unfortunately not encouraging. It is truly the basis of the security of our country - a good and educated family, a child-educated behavior, moral standards, an educated, comprehensive child in a family environment. But unfortunately, in real life, we face the fact that there are families where this theme is taboo. Families who are social-risk families are part of the family. Adolescents are having a baby... And perhaps all these teenagers get information about these standards from the Internet or their peers. The worst thing is from your first experience. That is why the "Paparde Flower", aware of these problems, voluntarily takes on this function of education for our young people. And without seeing the possibility of receiving the budget from the state, starting to get the grants announced by foreign funds to get the funding for this purpose. Thus, it is absolutely excluded that this project is illegal and endangers the national security of our country. Request to reject this request. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U23	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. ( Interface: “Well, Valdis! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U24	As always, I'm short. Hello, brothers and sisters! In principle, I have no objection to the Popard flower, but I would ask you to go into the details. What happens in the United States when it is said that foreign money appears in the United States? How Trump should stand for breakfast... and some kind of relationship he has with Russia? What happened to one of the French Presidents when he suspected that he had received money from Libya? Soross has been expelled from Hungary, a country of the European Union, for a long time. When we talk about some sort of Russian money being in public organisations, we say: “The security of the state is there something happens.” When there is money from other countries in some public organizations, we see it as a norm. We even have a norm that the chief of our security service is not a representative of Latvia, but a representative of other countries. And sometimes it seems that our security system works to protect the interests of other countries, not Latvia's interests. And those people who are Latvian patriots who are about Latvia do not give them permission. A those who carry out the tasks of other countries shall be granted tolerances. And even it seems that some political forces are here... with the idea of serving other countries. We're good owners in our land!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U25	The name of Member Arvīds Ulme.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U26	Dear Members, I would like to remind you that over everyone, over everyone! - the people on this planet are the spirit. And the state, if there's such a technical institution, then the nation... He is influenced by the spirit. And so the foundation of any nation is a spiritual foundation. There is also a spiritual foundation for morality. For our people, it seems to be a very, very strong spiritual foundation that you can see when you read folk songs and tales. And any nation can only be destroyed if the spiritual foundation of that nation is destroyed. I think the Sorosians... you know what Hungary is and so on.... that the Sorosians are actually doing in a fine way to neutralize the spiritual foundation of the people. ( The box “Speak! ”) ) Very fine and very precise. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Acts! What are these stupid things?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ However, I call for this request not to be supported, because it is not the right form. Spiritual attacks cannot be combated by law. And any proposal that the nationals... Any national proposal... naturally, for certain reasons, I will vote 'no'. And I call on you not to support this law in this case... this request, because it is not the form in which these sorostic moves must be fought.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U27	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U28	Dear colleagues, Mr Ulmes said that this intervention is taking place in a fine way. But today we are witnessing the grossness of this intervention. And you can read it on page 7 of the Reports, repeat. Hence, no one is tempted to write projects to amend the laws. You don't have to hide anything anymore. We're so far away. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “What foolishness!” ) To Mrs Chigan I would like to remind myself of civil society. It's very good that you're touching on this topic. You said you put your head in front of NGOs, before civil society. And then I wonder if there are two parallel civil societies... whom you put your head at one moment, but which you ignore at the other moment? By voting on various laws restricting civil society rights... For example, in 2012 on the referendum law... You were very pleased that the rights of the people were being restricted, and you said that it could be very simply replaced by the ManaBalss.lv initiative. Mr. Sergeant said that he was wrong at the vote. You voted against. Very good. Mrs Chigan is also reminded of the way in which the meetings of the Committee on European Affairs are chaired. Mr Dombrava has already touched on the topic of refugees. And indeed, which civil society did you listen to when receiving refugees? We remember how it all happened. Very bad. How have you heard civil society vote in favour of the Rail Baltica project? No way. So there are two different civil societies which Mrs. Chiganese loves and which Mrs. Chigane simply does not see. I cannot even count on the fingers of one hand those initiatives that restrict civil society and the people of Latvia, which Mrs Chicago has supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U29	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U30	Good morning, colleagues! It was a real joy to hear, for the first time in these eight years, that THE Unity was so loud that it was so loud. It really made me happier this day. But while listening to the speakers and reading some publications in the press, I do not understand. So I again took and read Section 10.1 of the Education Law. ‘ The education system ensures the moral education of the learners, which complies with the values included in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia and protected values, especially such as marriage and family. The educational institution, with the exception of universities, shall protect the educator from information and methods in the process of education and education which do not correspond to the provision of the educational moral development included in the aim of this Law.” Can anyone come and tell me how these amendments to the law prohibit school morals and gender education? Now I can't see it here! I remember when I worked at school myself and was a class educator... at that distant Soviet time, when these things were not admitted to speak... Believe me, how a class learns about these things, which, of course, start to interest children at a certain age, depends only on the teacher. Elementary. When I started asking guys in grade 8, teacher, we'd like to talk about things like that, I realized I could tell them. ( Merry laughter.) But, of course, I didn't mean to tell the girls. I talked to my colleague from the parallel class, and we said accordingly: I - guys, she - girls. And no problem! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Show it! It is better to see once!” ) I can quote ( Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Show!” )... is the portal... Mr. Neighbours, you've filmed yourself pretty much, so... is such a portal for glitiba-culture. en. And it says (I can quote: “When talking to educators about how they implement gender education, it must be concluded that teachers have different attitudes. And the more knowledgeable and experienced the teacher is, the more nourishment and attention he has to deal with these issues.” And it's not good that we come to class, let's take a social organization with bananas and condoms and start teaching children what needs to be done with it, without knowing what children are in this class; maybe some of these children have experienced sexual violence, and then they are forced to do something like that is just immoral. I will, of course, vote against this request, but I am also against the fact that, under such a law, we are trying to insert something completely different from moral education.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U31	The name to Member Lolita Chigan, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U32	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Member, Mr Dombrava, for taking great care of my future and challenging me to come here to explain how I will organise my future. Of course, it was (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Speak!” ), funnyly, he asked for it in connection with the “Paparde flower”, but, Mr. Dombrava, I can sincerely say to you: don't worry, I will deal with my future! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Really?” ) But obviously you have provided your future very well, because you have invested in many different countries outside Latvia (Interface: “On the subject!” ), United States (from the VL-TB/LNNK Group: ‘Watch on the subject!’ ) in countries (The drug is increasing noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , The Walt Disney Company (from the VL-TB/LNNK faction: “It’s not a topic!” ) Seaspan Corporation in Hong Kong (Dep. A. Kaimiņš: The topic is speaking! ), DURECT Corporation in the United States, Volkswagen Aktiengesellschaft in Germany, Berlin... Mr. Dombrava, if I need help, I'll contact you. Thank you. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U33	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U34	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Of course, I have not supported either the "changes in morality" or I will support this request. But what we're talking about here... So the argument has been mainly about HIV, about the spread of this disease in Latvia; it is really spreading and is a real problem. So what are the main problems? If we talk so much about HIV, then I'll let you take a few minutes of your time... The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs recently looked at this issue and listened to non-governmental organisations that... others who, in addition to the “Paparde flower”, train pupils, and say that opinions differed as to whether they have any interference due to these amendments. And even when talking privately, at least one of the organisations claimed that there was no one. But, of course, this issue can be resolved in such a way that the relevant things should be included in the education programmes, and in my opinion this is not hindered in any way by these amendments - whether we support them or not. But the most important thing about HIV is that now Latvia is the last country in the European Union that... a state where HIV is not treated immediately after it has been detected in a person. We have raised the number of CD4 cells (i.e. the level at which treatment is started) from 350 to 500 this year, but still this means that a person needs to become a little more ill before starting treatment. And many people actually disappear from the doctor at that time and then go to the hospital completely ill. This is the primary problem with the issue of HIV, and I really call for this issue to be resolved in the next year's budget so that this is not the case in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U35	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U36	You see, colleagues and Einar, it's not as crazy the rule of law as its interpretation and enforcement, because this rule decreases to prohibitions that actually mean much more than permits that maybe... or incentives, invitations included in this provision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “That’s it!” ) But on this request. I would like to remind you that the request does not refer to a rule of law, nor does it even refer to whether the "Papardes flower" society is good or bad. The request concerns whether or not a public authority may or may not finance an action against a provision of the law... or on the repeal of legal provisions. I would like to emphasise once again: a public authority can finance initiatives aimed at abolishing the rule of law. The second question: Can the association seek funding from private individuals outside Latvia to carry out domestic activities in favour of the repeal of the norm? Yes, the association can look for money outside Latvia! And the funding of a private person for such activities in Latvia does not have interference in Latvian domestic affairs. Private individuals... It is not an activity of the State; it is an activity of an individual. Mr. Dombrava's reply. Member Dombrava has a naked truth: there is a short link between socialism and liberalism. Socialism ends where and when freedom ends. So the Social Democrats have always been, have and will be opposed to any attempt to narrow the expression of freedom. And there's no contradiction here. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U37	The name of Member Inguna Reibena, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U38	Dear colleagues, The immorality of politicians is at least twofold. If a politician lies himself and steals... Is it incurable? Go get in touch... if any recovery event is known... But there is a completely different immorality: Those who deliberately and purposefully undermine the foundation of the moral identity of our people. They are self-infected. They want to induce such a spiritual immunity deficit syndrome that the nation no longer opposes its own death. And we, the defenders of traditional values, represent the function of immunity of the people - the will of our people to live and exist, while preserving their national, moral and religious identity. And as an architect, I can tell you that if you do not respect the laws of physics, it leads to the collapse of the building. But if spiritual and moral laws are not respected, this leads to the collapse of the country. It is also a wish for the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U39	Name to Member Carl Sergeant, for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Call, please show me!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U40	I did not say before, but I am calling for this discussion as to whether a public organisation may receive funds from abroad in order to change something in the laws of a sovereign state, to remember at the moment when we find, for example, that public organisations connected with the SAIC receive money from abroad in order to change, for example, the law on the state language or the law on the Russian language, to accept the withdrawal from schools and so on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “A completely different goal!” ) Then we will also come here and say that they are the rights of these social organisations, are they not, the Unity? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “Sorry!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U41	Name to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U42	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! I am always fascinated by appealing to the fact that the people are weak and weak. Mrs. Reynold, you are a person of culture, I take it seriously... Do you know the concept of “nest songs”? Uncarried songs are an integral part of Latvia's cultural heritage. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Ryban: “It’s known to everyone!” ) The Latvians talked about sex before our grandparents were born! And open talk about sex was an integral part of intimate sexual education. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “But it wasn’t taught children in 5th grade!” ) Open speech protects people from stupid situations, protects against venereal diseases, and the ability to speak openly in today’s circumstances, when the wave of information lies across the heads of children – it is a huge merit of the “Papardes Flower”. I wholeheartedly support its work to make our children alive and healthy. I therefore call for this request to be rejected. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U43	Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U44	Colleagues! A really interesting discussion. ( Interface: “A complete moon at night! ” ) And I tried not to talk all the time, but you wanted time for me to... I'll tell each one of you something. (Laughter) That's my dear colleagues! Where did we all come from physiologically - from heaven or through the womb? ( Milestones.) Where'd you come from? By registered mail? No, it wasn't on the ground. No, no! Each has its own mother, and we have all come from one particular place, whose anatomical name is the uterus (if you don't know it in Latvian). The second question. Here, I do not come here to defend the specific NGOs. I only have to say by logic. We live in a democratic country. We live... Everyone is speaking - both Mrs Stepanenko, Unity, Sergeant and Dombrava - that we want to listen to NGOs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Šics home with his hands.) Schitz is talking about it, too. This means that we all think about one goal: non-governmental organisations have the right to present their vision of any draft law. They have the right to come and talk to individual Members about their views, just as they come to us outside NGOs... associations that support alcohol support cigarettes... Support for teachers, support for doctors... And we all, all these organizations have listened. Why should this particular organisation not be heard or debated on a very important matter - on health? I don't want to... I am not interested in the money of Soros or Norway, or the money of the European Union. I'm not interested in whether there is security, because we have a security authority that investigates where the receipt comes from in the Republic of Latvia. It links this issue to security, to national security - it's stupid. And one more thing you are doing right now, colleagues - you are reducing the prestige of this Saeima and, more generally, the Saeima when you come to the tribunal and say that money like the EUR 10 000 that comes from somewhere can affect your vote and can affect... and can also buy you! (Applause) Depp. L. Cigan: “Right!” ) We are... Are we here to buy us?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (Applause) You will reduce the value of this Saeima and the Saeima in general! Here is a shame for a man who speaks and allows for public... that we are so easy to buy! And every organisation and every person can be influenced by our vote... CONNECTION is not, but it is here. There are those here! I call for this not to be supported. ( The box “Yes! ”) Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U45	Name of Member Līga Kozlovsk.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U46	Hello, dear colleagues! Democracy. Democracy in the Saeima may probably be by voting in favour or against the request. And that is our choice of each one of us, as we understand this issue. I would just like to make a brief comment on Mr Cilinski. Mr Cilinski made one statement, which in a way is not true. The Cabinet of Ministers has adopted and approved rules for the treatment of HIV and AIDS patients, regardless of the number of T lymphocytes. They have been approved from 1 October - just as in all the other countries of the European Union. And this is a clarification, but it is a very important message to all our inhabitants of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U47	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U48	Don't you have to be ashamed... What are you doing at the moment? It's not a shame, isn't it? Ten and 18 minutes! Well, please, listen to me! That is, now in Latvia because of your empty mulling (Dep. L. Čigāne: “Only because you don’t understand it doesn’t mean it’s unnecessary!” ), where some talk about where they will work after not working in the Saeima, where one put his money in some way, or another talks about where the children come from. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “About the question!” ) A appears (Dep. A.Loskutov: “About the question!” ) - they come from the uterus... You're actually talking about it here, from the Saeima Tribe, for an hour and 18 minutes. Are you no longer having any real problems in your country? There's no real problem anymore? Today for 42 thousand euros in an hour! Thanks to Jehovah, both ZZS and the National Association, when you weren’t there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Nemo! On the request!’ ) 42 thousand euros are stolen every hour to the Latvian state as a result of the OIC, and you're just muddat about some totally irrelevant problems here! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “Recent! Where are your children?’ ) Are you no longer having any current problems? ( Intrusively, “You don’t have children, so you don’t understand! ” ; “Where are your children?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U49	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U50	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Indeed (Interior: How many children do you have?) ), the Saeima elections are approaching, is a full month, and all of this can be felt here. I'd like to talk to you? Request... I can talk about this request from three points, because I see those three aspects here. First. There is foreign money, there are “Papardes flower” activities in schools. I think Mrs. Reynold everything very well and rightly. And I would like to say, first of all, about the requests to say... and the turn of the Saeima. I've already mentioned this before. Well, it's not... that requests must be rejected automatically, in the presence of a coalition, because such an essential constitutive principle does not actually work. We have to think about these coalition treaties, which are there to write, what they don't. Or the roll of the Constitution and the order of the Saeima should be corrected. That would be one. Secondly. For years at the National Security Commission, like Karlis Sergeant, like Mr Ruck, Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere, who recently started working... reading various materials that I can't tell about, of course, because they are a state secret, especially in secret... I've thought about getting foreign money into Latvia and... You know, I think maybe I do not need to follow this issue as radically as Orban did in Hungary. But we need to think about controlling and restricting this money, and I think it does not really happen here. I've been through my experience... When I was the Head of the Religious Affairs Administration, at the time about 20 years ago... had an obligation for the Administration of Religious Affairs to authorise or refuse the import of a humanitarian cargo. And then, given that one organization violated the law, I did not allow the introduction of a cargo into Latvia. At the end, people from the embassy came to me, the head of the organization came. It turns out a hop! -, I had accidentally weakened the arrival of the entire Church in Latvia! And so the church is located, by the way, at the Furniture House. Everyone can pass, it's getting out of there. And so I think these things really have to follow. We're not doing that! This is in fact an unscrupulous homework, just like the cheque bags that we haven't opened. Cheque bags, I think we'll open it. If Raimonds Vējonis does not return them, of course. I hope not. But then this thing remains an unscrupulous homework, which is connected, Hosam, with national security, as you made up quite rightly. You know better about your kids where they come from. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “You also know most likely! For children!’ ) Well, yes. But when it comes to national security, this question... the arrival of foreign money in Latvia is a matter of national security. And that's... You chatted with the riverman and you didn't hear what this was about.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U51	The name to Member Romuald Harvest. ( Interface: “Maybe enough? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U52	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Today we are witnesses of an unprecedented incident. The Saeima legislator... individual representatives attack the public sector. That's something... There has not been so far, has not been heard, and I think you all remember very well that Russia is the leading country with this practice, where public organisations with funding from abroad are declared the enemy of the country and destroyed. So it's so false that it really shouldn't be too long to talk about here. ( Insight: “Do not say it! ”) ) It is, by its very nature, to be rejected as unnatural and unwarranted of our glory. Go on. Through the Subcommittee on Public Health, we are always faced with the problem of how to approach our young people, how to explain them. The Latvian Gynecologists' Association also spoke about this: due to the so-called hypocritical changes in morality it is enough for one in 100 parents to become involved that they do not need to do so, and the school administration shrills, threatens and does not allow young people to talk about what would protect their health and life. The so-called moral changes will be repealed. It's just a matter of time. But the question is how many young people will be paid for their health and life? (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U53	Mrs Schiffe, will it be enough for you to have a debate with five or six minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Then let’s continue after a break! Thank you!” ) Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U54	Colleagues! I'll have to do it by noon. I want to tell you my thoughts, too. I was told by my colleague, Kaimiņš. I strongly disagree with him, because what we are doing here in this hour is not an empty embarrassment and it is not a problem for society. We all know that this is a very topical problem for society: this culture of life and the culture of death. At the moment, there is a very sharp stratification in society and a clarification of this attitude - of what did you get into this life? What did you join in your life, in your children's life, in the life of society? Do you stand up for a culture of life or for a culture of death? I mean, when these things are separated - the spiritual thing is separated from the material thing - then... In fact, very quickly we can come... without even seeing us go towards the culture of death, not the culture of life. And that's why it's very topical that we're at least here in the Saeima... The public is having a debate, but... We at least talk about it here in the Saeima. And why are we talking so much here? Because we simply do not have the opportunity to exchange views elsewhere and otherwise at this - the highest - level, because we have this tradition or agreement to reject requests (I do not know how to say). I believe that, in a much different way, we could deal with these issues in our societies if these requests really came under executive power. I think that the coalition should not keep its executive power; it is a sign of weakness. I think that a strong coalition, a strong power will behave in such a way that it will also allow us to speak, act, discuss, fight against our executive. If this request were to come to the Prime Minister, then it would be a signal to the Prime Minister that it is a topical issue that employs both society and politicians. He should talk to his ministers, ask them these questions, ask answers. The Cabinet would have a discussion between ministers and there would be a discussion not only about material things, but also about spiritual things that ultimately form this material world. Now they're separated from it. They don't have to be asked. They can decide between themselves what is important and what is irrelevant. I do not doubt that they are choosing topical issues and talking about them. But the issues we are talking about here and which are important to us as leaders of the people, in this way rejecting requests until they get there, and the discussion does not take place. And that, in my opinion, is very dangerous and very wrong. And that's the main thing... one of... Can't say the main or the bottom... one of the reasons also for this vulnerability of our democracy, a weakness that should be eliminated. I hope that perhaps in the next term, the Saeima will do away with this. I call, however, for this request to be supported, albeit because the request must reach its addressee.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U55	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote for the Member Jūlija Stepanenko, Inguna Silver, Aivara Meija, Mihaila Zemļinska, Ivana Ribakova, Vladimira Nikonova, Jānis Adamsona, Zenta Tretjaka, Igora Zuvėva, Arthur Rubika and Romana Miloslavska's request to the Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis "On measures to protect the interests of the society "Papardes Zieds" financed by the Society "On the Elimination of Article 10.1 of the Law on Integration of Society and Open Society Funds"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 23, against - 43, refraining from - 11. The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda of the sitting have been tabled. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks to consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations” drafted by it at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to consider at first reading the draft law prepared by the Commission “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” drawn up by the Commission to be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U56	Dear colleagues, The meeting of the National Administration and Municipal Commission will take place after five minutes in the premises of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U57	Name of the notification to Member Auguste Brigman.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U58	The meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs will be held immediately - next to us in the Red Chamber.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U59	Name to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U60	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Jeļena Lazareva, Romanas Mežeckis... Yes, Inara Mūrniece... ( The Head of the sitting: “I am! ”) ) is, Renārs Putniņš, Artis Rasmanis and Juris Vectirāns... Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U61	Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U62	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U63	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Members of the Saeima Bureau! Dear Members and honourable Members, The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has received six proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions”” for which Parliament has established urgency. Proposal No 1. Member Roman Mežeckis has called for a new benefit to be included in the law - the single pensioner, who lives alone. My next duty is to declare entitlement to benefits and... Article 3 - the amount of the allowance. The Social and Labour Commission listened to the Member and did not support this proposal simply because very many things are not yet clear. Is it really necessary to write this in the State Pensions Act? Or would it be a question of the State Social Benefits Act or a question of the Social Services and Social Assistance Act? In the Commission, the Members put questions to Mr Roman Mežeckas. On behalf of the Commission, we call on the honourable Member to attend the working group at 3 p.m. on 17 October so that this can be discussed very seriously. The proposal was not supported because there are still many issues, a lot of uncertainty about the proposal. This is a question that requires a longer debate. But in no case do we doubt that in Latvia the single pensioners would be particularly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U64	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Roman Mežecki.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U65	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Dear Mrs. Barch. The nature of the proposal Lone pensioners of Latvia are the most vulnerable group of society, and they very much need state support. The basic Latvian law states that Latvia is a socially responsible state. As we know, the economy has been developing recently. The social budget has created a major procrulity, so the state must fulfil its obligations towards the most disadvantaged groups in society. The proposal, developed by me and former Minister of Justice Guntars Grīnvalds, provides that every single pensioner of Latvia receives once a year from the state allowance in the amount of at least one minimum pension, which is currently 117 euros. The admission criteria are very simple: a person has reached retirement age, receives an old-age pension and lives alone. There is no need to write any submissions to such a person. This State aid is not taxed. I would like to inform you that such a system has been functioning in Estonia for a year and that it has been functioning well there. It is supported both by all Estonian politicians and by the entire Estonian society. An active discussion on the implementation of this model is currently taking place in Lithuania. These proposals have no practical impact on the existing pension system. In Estonia, the need to reduce social strata and combat poverty must be combated. They have calculated that the standard of living of single pensioners is much lower than that of other pensioners. When a person stays alone, his standard of living decreases rapidly. Estonia has 90,000 single pensioners and 84 thousand of them, with the exception of large pension beneficiaries, receive such support. In Estonia, pensions are higher than in Latvia. The daily life of Latvian single pensioners is even more difficult. They need such support no less. They deserve it. I call for my proposal to be supported. 105 thousand Latvian people are waiting for your positive vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U66	The name of Member Aija Barch.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U67	Mr Mežecka has already called me into a debate. Then let it be, because the potter that’s been pressed by him! Dear colleagues, Mr Mežecka has not said one important thing in this particular case: from what budget we will pay this allowance. This is a very serious matter. Because the national social security system does not provide for this. Consequently, these costs could come from the general national budget. And so today's examination of the amendments to the Law on State Pensions as a matter of urgency by the honourable colleagues would not support the proposal. It is simply because, when preparing the next year's budget and the next three years, we have to consider that there will be new colleagues in the 13th Saeima, and no one can tell us today whether we will or will not be here. And so we must be as careful as possible, also taking into account the norms of the Fiscal Discipline Law. Next. It is written here that the State Social Insurance Agency checks once a year in national databases whether a person is alone. See, until now the National Social Security Agency has never been entrusted with such a function. Whether a person lives alone or another person is declared in her place of residence, only the municipality knows the truth. And for no reason, on behalf of the Commission, I am talking about two other laws that are worth studying: whether the norm and proposals drafted by this very good and progressive Mr Mežeckas is not the norm of the Law on State Social Benefits or the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance. Another point that Mr Mežecka stressed during the debate is that this is not about all those seniors whose pensions are very high. Consequently, it would also be an agreement that I believe we can only reach through cooperation with senior organisations, and that would be their final name. Would those currently receiving a pension of EUR 1000, 2000 or more also be entitled to such support? This is not the case in this tabled proposal. I do not doubt under any circumstances those who receive a large or even very large pension, and I will never say that they may not have earned it. So these people have paid high or very high taxes. But this case is also to be examined in relation to benefits for single pensioners. The next point, which is very important. Mr Mežecka, with his team that drafted this proposal, has stated that such an allowance is paid once a year - before 1 June. But, honourable colleagues, we must bear in mind that older people are most difficult to survive and pay for all kinds of utilities during the winter. And that's why in Latvia, local governments supporting seniors... When paying the apartment allowance, think of the autumn, winter and spring periods. In any case, in the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs, when we examined this proposal, we did not say absolutely. We simply pointed out these potential risks to the applicant, which I am telling you about today, colleagues, and we also called on Mr Mežecka to participate in the working groups and to help the joint efforts to draft these proposals in the relevant legislation and in the relevant text. Today's proposal is not in line with quality.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U68	The name to Member Roman Mežecki, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U69	Thank you to Mrs Barch for her sympathetic words. I'm not saying that to irony. I respect him. And I want to say that, at the commission meeting, I think it was right for the commission manager to chair the sitting! - the vote was four against five and only a small moment changed the result of this vote. But - but! - I would like to say this: I was a little disappointed at this vote at the beginning. At first, I even had the idea: maybe the public will want to hear the names of these five people who voted against 105 thousand pensioners? ( Milestones.) Wait, wait, wait! But then... But if we keep this idea, maybe they could order radio clips and introduce the public more widely. And I'd like to say... I would like to say that voters will certainly appreciate this vote. But then I thought and realized that I was wrong. That I'm not right! The Commission's position was sufficiently balanced and ultimately the main argument was that perhaps this law is not what it should be dealt with. That's it! Of course, there were some arguments that were somewhat comical, such as the fact that municipalities... municipalities should be involved in this case. Well, tell me, then in small municipalities... Pensioners living in small municipalities are worse than those living in the big, rich? Okay, I'm here... Let's talk about good, let's not talk about negativity! But I want to say this: this error can be corrected. And today, signatures have been collected here, and we will be presenting the amendments to the State Social Benefits Act, if necessary, with much better-designed proposals, and if not in this House, this decision will be taken in the next Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U70	Mr. Mežecka, your speaking time is over! ( On the tab shows that dep. Mr Barča has applied for a debate.) Mr Mežecka, as Head of the sitting, I have to ask you: did you come to the debate instead of Aija Barča?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U71	No, no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “That’s what he does! Second time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U72	No, no. Mr Mežecka, I call on you to be aware that you are a Member of Roman Mežeckis. ( Interjection: “Press buttons speaking! ” ) Romes Mežeckis, a Member only. Colleagues! Please do not introduce your colleagues in the debate. They are able to do so when they have something to say. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U73	Dear Members, On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal from Roman Mežecka not to be supported in such a text.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U74	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - MEP Mežecka's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 13, for - 44. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U75	2. - the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia. At the meeting of the Commission, it was not supported, because there is a special law on participants in the barricades of 1991 and the Commission will look at the implementation of the special, special law in October.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U76	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U77	The previous proposal was related to another law (and I am among those who signed the new amendments), but this proposal by the Group of the Regions of Latvia to include members of the 1991 barricades on the list of pensioners who are subject to the annual recalculation of pensions every year, taking into account the actual index of consumer prices and contributions... And that is not correct, and we are specifically talking about whether he has worked more or less, depending on the contributions of the pension funds that have been made, there is a recalculation every year. This is a special group that is equal to the politically oppressed, that has become a minority, like the Chernobyls, that almost a thousand people a year are falling among us... These are the people that we are sitting in this Chamber today, thanks to which we are a free country. They were those who traveled from the countryside, from the regions, lived near the fires in Riga and protected the Saeima. They deserve this support and annual pension indexation regardless of the size of the pension. And so I ask you to support this proposal because it would be our contribution to those whom we are... So far they have been awarded only because they live in free Latvia. All necessary to implement it is arranged: the law on the determination of status has been adopted, the respective regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been adopted, the procedure for issuing certificates have been arranged, it is possible to ensure exchange of information with the State Social Insurance Fund. In fact, there is now only a political decision: do we really want or do not want? And I call on everyone to support this special group, which is important for Latvia's independence, with the indexation of pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U78	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U79	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The table below states: this proposal is not supported by the Commission. In fact, however, the attitude was not negative. The majority of the Commission saw with understanding that this is the way in which, now that we are able to provide support to the members of the barricades by the municipalities, the obligation of the state to respect and support them could also be imposed on them. As the author of the barricade membership law, it really is a great satisfaction to me. And I can only say thank you very much to Mr Schic. But this platform, this draft law that we are considering in two readings, the urgency procedure, is not suitable for this proposal, which has just begun its way. That is the original version. At the Commission meeting, questions were raised: "And what about the framework law on barricade status? There must also be amendments there, because municipalities are recorded there!’ It is therefore also necessary to introduce amendments to this law. There were questions... Let us review all pensions. But then it turns out that increasing a pension for a barricade member will depend not on whether he was there or not, but on how much pension for him, because it will be... for those with high pensions; for those with low pensions, the supplement will be well, much less. And that's why the commission decided that we would be looking at this issue next week without rejecting it or rejecting it... speaking about the progress of enforcement of the barricades' status law... also this way of attracting the country as a member of the barricades. We will invite the veteran societies of members of the barricades to the meeting, because they need their views as social... and by merit, to develop this proposal fairly. Since the proposal has not been forgotten, it has not been rejected. This simply draft law, which we are dealing with as a matter of urgency in two readings, does not give time to complete it. I therefore call on us today to refrain from supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U80	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U81	We are currently looking at the special and basic law on pensions - the law on state pensions. This law defines three groups with special status, three groups of pensioners: the disabled of Group I, the Chernobyls (I will allow it to be abbreviated) and the politically oppressed. Our proposal, the proposal of the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, is to complement this group, the special pensioner group, with the fourth group - members of the 1991 barricades. And I don't see a link here with the fact that it should first be incorporated into the law on the status of a member of the 1991 barricades... There, of course, obviously need to be integrated in order to be linked to the law, but it is important to incorporate it here... recognize this group as a special group, a special pensioner group, and incorporate it directly into this law, and finally move from words to deeds so that we really... so that our country really appreciates the contribution of these people to the restoration of Latvia's independence. If we look at history, we see that bloody fights, freedom struggles have been in 1918, in 1919. Very bloody fights! This man is no longer among us. They already pay a pension there, in heaven, and we're not discussing them. But we have another group of people - those who participated in the same decisive struggle to restore Latvia's independence. And they are members of the barricades. Yes, this fight was not as bloody as it was during the first time in Latvia. And, thank God, it wasn't so bloody. There are only a few who have died, and we honor their memory. But there are the survivors who would need recognition of this country - an assessment of their contribution to these matters. Keep in mind that at that time, in the winter of 1991, no one knew what would happen next minute! Now we can reason from 27 years of age, and now we may feel that they were doing special things there. He went to Riga, sat at the fires, sang songs, and ate sandwiches. Well, that little bunny, isn't it? But it's like, it's absurd, it's the most total absurd! You know, no one knew what was going to happen in the next moment! I organized these barricades in the district of Jēkabpils and in the city, who drove to defend Riga, first and foremost Riga. I spent every bus on my way to Riga. And I didn't know where I was going. But one of the decisive nights... And I couldn't be with them all the time, constantly, I just left there for a moment to talk, to learn their needs and to keep their spirit, and came out that crucial night, I was with my Jekabpils in Zakusala - at the television tower. And there was writer Lucia Ķuzāne, there was the hospital's chief doctor Anton Ziedris, there was cultural staff, there were teachers, there were farmers... there were representatives of all professions. And we were all instructed that it is possible that in the next hour from the Daugava there will be an attack on the television tower. And told people what they had to do at that time. And you think somebody took their pendants and walked away from there? They were ready to stand there and fall there, but not to give a step back! I think that we need to remember and appreciate this, even in a situation where we are poor, we have budgetary problems and so on. But these people are not hundreds of thousands! These are a few tens of thousands of people, and they are registered, they are noted, all things are arranged, as colleague Schics told you. Let us not be filthy in things like this! Here really only the political will is needed: to recognise and appreciate these people, to thank these people. Besides showing gratitude, not only to organize beautiful events, but also to help them in a difficult situation. I mean, help through these pension cases. I call for support for the proposal. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U82	I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U83	Some names in the name of the commission. Dear colleagues, After these discussions, it now appears that members of the 1991 barricades who receive a pension are not indexed. That's not the case. Just the question: what is the proposal saying? The pension shall be indexed regardless of its size. But the law “On state pensions”... And especially, Mr Schic and Mrs Schiffa, working within the Social and Labour Commission all these years during the 12th term, they know and remember this discussion very well. Thus, for years, the persons under political repression, the disabled of Group I and the participants in the emergency response to the Chernobyl nuclear power plant index the entire pension regardless of its size. For the rest, pensions are indexed at 50 per cent of the national social security contributions of the previous year. And this year it is €382. If we want to support the proposal of the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, then we must take into account... The applicants should have been told how much it would cost. Unfortunately, such calculations have not been made and such information has not been requested by either the State Social Insurance Agency or the non-governmental organisation of members of the barricades. Dear colleagues, This issue will also be dealt with very seriously by the Social and Labour Commission in the working group. In the worst case, if it is necessary to... lay down transitional provisions for this second paragraph of Article 26... but then our draft law cannot be reviewed immediately, today. The members of the Social and Labour Commission abstained from supporting this proposal by considering amendments to the law on state pensions as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U84	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -13, for -6, for -71. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U85	The proposal submitted by Member Imants Krādnieks at the meeting of the Commission was not supported on the basis that the second part of Section 12 of the Law, which came into force on 1 January 2012, has delegated to the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's why the Commission for Social and Labour will be good - no doubt good and interesting! - the proposals after today's vote will be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers, because today, colleagues, the minimum amount of the old-age pension for each full year of service is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Article 12, second paragraph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U86	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U87	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I already set out at last sitting the basic principle that I see... which should be included in the amendments to the minimum pensions and indicated that there are currently 24 thousand pensioners receiving a pension below EUR 100. I also indicated that the person receiving the minimum pension... about 30 years of service... EUR 83... for her, this year of service is estimated at only €2.77, which is unacceptable. What do I offer? I propose that every year of work be determined so that it has some value and that it also reflects the level of pensions. What was the assumption from which I got this number? In 2014 the concept of minimum income level was adopted in the Cabinet. Unfortunately, this has not been confirmed further - by the highest laws and regulations. Only accepted as a concept. Consequently, no reference may be made to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers or otherwise. But this minimum income level, which is really the same, the very minimum that every person should provide, is now estimated at EUR 177. Last year it was 169 euros. Assuming that the same increase could be around next year, I took this approximate amount, which could be some EUR 185, and I allocated it for 25 years. Why 25 years old? In my opinion, this is the length of work that every person should have; at least that minimum should work. And if it's a minimum... Either, perhaps another has less, either, God with him, then the pension could be lower accordingly, but according to these considerations, it should reach at least the minimum income level. Well, I am not even talking about 200 euros; it is now being promised to everyone in the run-up to the election, regardless of the length of work. I think that is a very fair approach. How can we correctly incorporate it into the law? This is a technical issue. Do you only delegate it to the Cabinet of Ministers? I don't think so. But what would we achieve with this type of amendment? That a person with a 20-year length of work who currently receives just over 70 euros would receive 150 euros. And a person with 30 years of service, who currently receives 83 euros, would receive 225 euros. Wouldn't that be fair? And now that we are discussing this proposal within the Social and Labour Commission and are, of course, talking about fiscal impact, the representatives of the National Social Insurance Agency say that this could amount to up to 250 million. Well, I asked... not asked, but we agreed that the calculations would be sent. It's been exactly two days, but there's no calculation. I asked the committee's consultant again, and now she sent it back... sent a reminder. The calculations have not been passed! According to my estimates, this is about EUR 60 million. Of course, we do not. But neither do we - according to the Ministry of Finance - have the millions presented in this draft law. Well, if we don't have one, then maybe there's another... Well, but God with them! Well, if we want to ensure justice, then we ensure justice. The reason I withdrew my proposals - proposals 3 and 5 - is also the consideration that this includes a transitional provision that the amendments in question will enter into force on 1 July next year. There's enough time for us to... It was written in my proposals that the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers should be issued. There's enough time to really... “ If you’re not in the next Saeima?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) for the next Saeima to take such a decision. And I hope that this principle will be pursued. We can always say that... It is certainly necessary to set this amount at a higher level for each year of service, but I set out my observations, in which at least the absolute minimum will be ensured for persons with a much less worthy period of service. I withdrawn my proposals - proposals 3 and 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U88	Therefore, Proposals 3 and 5 have been withdrawn. We are continuing the debate on the proposal... The debate can also be held if it is withdrawn. The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U89	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Of course, any proposal that increases pensions, no matter which category, is, in substance, to be supported. However, it can be supported to the end (and in particular by the urgent law) when the proposal is fully legally drawn up, and also when it has the necessary financial resources. And, unfortunately, there is the problem that is today with all the proposals that have been tabled - that there is no financial resources for this. In fact, what Mr Debtor has said is a very important issue and, in fact, it is even wider than what Mr Debtor has said here. And the Ministry of Welfare has also prepared... And it's moving somewhere in the Cabinet of Ministers... plan for improvement of the minimum income system for 2018-2020. And, in fact, the plan is not going anywhere, either, because there is no coordination with the Latvian Municipal Union, as we found it. But, in fact, the issue involves a broader range - not only of minimum pensions, but also of public social security benefits, which would cover both the pensionable and the disabled... and maybe directly to the disabled... disabled persons in particular. Because perhaps those who have not worked enough working time are guilty to some extent themselves, but of course they also have to have some level of income. But those who are disabled from childhood have not actually been able to work. Of course, these people are all the more worthy of security. And so I think this question of minimum pensions and raising the minimum level of public social security benefits is really extremely important and should be seen in the context of the next year's budget. But that... Thank you to Mr Debtor for withdrawing his proposals today, and thank you also for proposing this idea. And I really hope that we will still work within the Commission to make proposals - if not for this Saeima, then at least for the next one - so that there is some kind of introduction so that we can also move forward in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U90	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U91	On behalf of the Commission, I no longer have anything to add, because Imants debtor has referred to proposals 3 and 5. Proposal No 4. Member Imants Debtor excludes the rest of the text in point 41 of the transitional provisions, but leaves only the following wording: “The old-age and invalidity pension recipients residing in Latvia and the Member States of the European Economic Area shall be granted a premium for each year of insurance for insurance completed before 31 December 1995 and taken into account when granting (recalculated) pension.” These are transitional provisions. The articles of the law have already been amended for us, honourable colleagues, and now the commission also includes the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” which deals with the period from 1 January 2012 when people have retired... and they no longer have a bonus for the length of service. But for those who have retired until 31 December 1996, the pay for the length of service has also been increased - and not one euro, but one and a half euro. This was already done on 1 July this year. That is why the Commission was also not absolutely rebutting when discussing the proposal made by the Member, Mr Debtor, in point 41 of the transitional provisions. However, the Commission abstained from adopting this proposal at the moment, because we did not have any information on the fiscal impact at our meeting... because as of 1 January 2014, the pay for the period of employment is paid from the general budget of the State and not from the compulsory state social insurance contributions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U92	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U93	Colleagues! Mrs Barch has already made a very detailed presentation. This is indeed the old story of pension allowances for each year of insurance (work) for persons who have retired after 2011. As Mrs Barch said, we have referred the draft law to the Commission, where this provision is included. I just wanted to make life easier. Why do we have to look at another separate opening if we have opened this law at an urgent reading on state pensions?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's get this rule right in here! I hope that, until then, there will be estimates of the fiscal impact and that we can accept it. Well, if this has not happened, of course, the commission can then win the same norm in another opening. It didn't make sense to me. But if colleagues believe that this would be more correct, I also withdraw Amendments 4 and 6 and hope that we will adopt this provision in the second opening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U94	Thank you. Therefore, Proposals 4 and 6 have been withdrawn. I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U95	Thank you. Consequently, all the proposals have been examined because Mr Debtor has responded to these proposals - proposals 4 and 6. On behalf of the Commission, I am calling for support to be given to the draft law on state pensions (No 1346/Lp12) at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U96	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U97	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U98	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U99	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I would remind you that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” in the version that we approved at first reading was designed with the aim of continuing to raise the non-degree minimum “step” for pensioners in 2021. Because by the law in force, this “step” was gradually built... is already under construction by 2020, but it would be appropriate, in the run-up to the medium-term budget, to incorporate this "step" into the law. The wording of the first reading of the draft law is to be increased from EUR 300 per month to EUR 330 per month. This level will be achieved in 2020, and it would also remain in 2021 if this law were not adopted. Four Members' proposals have been received, three of which have been called for by Members to increase this inequitable minimum in 2021 as well as... in other proposals - earlier. Undoubtedly, in the Commission, when we look at all these proposals, we really... The Commission would also like to support a more rapid increase in the unlimited minimum, but at the moment what is agreed with the Ministry of Finance and what has financial resources - that is the wording of first reading. That is also the reason why the commission, with a strong heart, had to reject the Members' proposals - both 1, 2 and 3. And so 1. - The proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U100	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U101	Dear colleagues, We are talking about "steps". And the “steps” that apply to this inextricable minimum are almost flat, but price indices and the risk of poverty are rising, driving as an escalator - going rapidly to heaven! I'll name the numbers. The poverty risk threshold in 2014 was 291 euros, in 2015 - 318 euros, in 2016 the poverty risk threshold was 330 euros. Go on. Future trends 2015: planned - 350 euros. And in 2018, this year, will reach 380 euros... And it's now 2021. We want to confirm this poverty threshold. The target is EUR 450-470. This poverty threshold will be higher than it is today. The third year of the frozen wage. But what are we doing? We now approve by law the norm that in 2021 - in 2021! - let us tax all income above EUR 330. So we're consciously saying that many groups... For example, pensioners over the age of 75 are almost all in this group. All of them poor, let's... It's immoral! This is why it is about the following: It is truly immoral, because a group of people over 75 and over 65 live in twice the greatest poverty: twice the greatest poverty! - other groups and workers. Lones... 75 percent of those who receive these funds live in poverty. No, we will formally do it... and now each of these people, instead of getting about some 20 euros more, will go to the municipalities, will write an application, will lower the need for benefits, and so on. But I want you all to understand and listen! It is time at last to work with reality numbers and not to rely on dreamed numbers! Let me... I'm sorry, too, Dan's dictate doesn't... more than 330 we don't want! We show you we're at the bottom of the pit, sleeping in the pit, and wetly lifting your head... and we are already making progress. There is no progress! We really are in the last place... one of the last places behind Romania in Europe... poverty... and I offer not to give the next Saeima... not an option... That in the law, if it's laid down... but to say: it was the will of the previous Saeima - to increase the unlimited minimum to 430... to the level of the frozen minimum wage. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “Where will you take the money?” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U102	The name of Member Aija Barch.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U103	Dear colleagues, I really don't want to, but I have to say a few words to my colleague Mārtiņš Šics after defending his offer so excitingly. We, all political forces, especially young people, who will enter the 13th Saeima, are talking about people with very low pensions, and it is our duty now to figure out premiums to length of work... There's something But, with these proposals very quickly raising the inequitable minimum, dear colleagues, we will help those seniors who have high pensions - perhaps even very large ones! - but let's absolutely not help those with low pensions. Dear colleagues, We have a lot of seniors with a pension of EUR 430 or... yet more in the next proposals of €500 and more... is beyond space. That is why I would very much like - let us be very honest! - Let our words be in harmony with our actions. And for those who are now 75 or more years old, for those who may not have been successful in life, perhaps contributions for them, starting from the list of compulsory social insurance contributions on 1 January 1996, have been very small... Here, too, we must speak with our young people to begin thinking, even in 40 or 45 years, that they are years old, but not so much that they do not come. That's why, colleagues, in the Social and Labour Commission... Even though we all want this inexhaustible minimum to be raised ever faster, we remained on the ground that, at first reading, including in cooperation with senior organisations, we agreed EUR 330. Step by step, because otherwise we will not be able to do so. We also need to think about people receiving small and very small pensions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U104	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U105	I am calling, colleagues, for us to be aware that we are, for the moment, smashing the tax delicacy in the round, and he is as little as he is. When we go one way, we take the other. But I have a call to deal with the most important thing that we have... which in principle solves all further problems. Do everything to put that tax delicacy on a bigger one. To throw peace for all the weeds in the hall, for all the wards of flowers there... It's all... The devil knows who, but to turn to the most important thing we have, to create new jobs and increase the economy. When we increase our economy, the tax delicacy will be for everything and we can here... Peaceless, kind, and the people will love us. But to sniff and bust this small tax delicacy is pointless.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U106	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U107	I'll stay calm, yeah. Good morning, colleagues! Hello! In its reports, the OECD has quite clearly shown that there is a problem with regard to Latvia. Our pensioners are now the poorest among all OECD member states. In the context of elections, each party has said something about the unlimited minimum pension. Almost every one! In principle, there is talk of raising the boundless minimum to EUR 500 or the minimum wage to about EUR 500. These amounts vary according to the programme of each individual lot. The Association of the Regions of Latvia has promised to increase this inexpensive minimum to the minimum wage, i.e. a pension (free of tax) - to the minimum wage. That is what this proposal is about. This sum, which is contained in proposal 1... Distributing for 12 months is EUR 430, or minimum wage. When it comes to fiscal effects, it should be said that they are not as grand as they could be imagined. This “blouse” could try to blow up... But that's about EUR 68 million. Millions of euros, that's it! But in the context... compared to other things that have been offered... compared to the cost of the major tax reform, the fiscal effect was 430 million in separate headings. And so on. I think this is something that must be done with respect for our older people, or older generations, if not for this Saeima (if there are not enough votes in the vote), then the next one really does. On behalf of the LRA, I call for support for these amendments and this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U108	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U109	On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported, given that there are currently financial opportunities which we have. But, of course, the next Saeima, with better results in the field of taxation, will be able to continue to raise the unlimited minimum.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U110	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 6, refraining - 43. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U111	2. - Mr Klementyev's proposal, which provides for the creation of an optional minimum from the following year (and faster). The Commission was not supported. I explained the argument from the outset.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U112	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U113	Thank you. High honourable Members! In response to what the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance said... Where are we going to take the money? You have just asked this question in the debate. I will reply to the previous speaker: when you prepared the tax reform, you promised that the unlimited minimum for pensioners would be EUR 300, but you would compensate through excise duty. It was about diesel fuel, petrol, alcohol and so on. And we already had doubts if you would be able to balance. You said: “It’s okay, 300 euros will already be here this year.” But then you changed your point of view and reduced this inexpensive minimum to EUR 250. And excise duties still enter into force, and pensioners driving a car pay for supplies of goods, and their quality of life gets worse in monetary terms. There are people who, after your reform, became even poorer. Therefore, with my proposal, I did not want to come up with anything new, I took your proposal and presented it to do so, because, knowing how well our revenue is in the budget, we have the opportunity to raise the unlimited minimum for pensioners to EUR 330 next year and not to wait for 2020. We know that the Central Statistical Office has just provided us with data that the poverty threshold for us is EUR 330. So today I ask Members not only to promise... in the lively debate through the television screen not only to promise 500, but the "steps" that I set up - 330, 360... - to confirm after a year because we can afford to raise the non-equitable minimum every year by 10 per cent. And let us put it in the law - then pensioners will not depend on some kind of political will to help or not, but will develop a model that is enshrined in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U114	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U115	The Commission has not supported this proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U116	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Andrey Klementyeva's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 6, for - 45. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U117	3. - the proposal of the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, which intends to accelerate the construction of an inequitable minimum in 2020. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U118	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U119	All right, colleagues! You did not want to address this problem today for the next year... Then let us look at your party's programmes and conclude that you will do it in the future. At least this is what you are promising to your constituents: to raise an inequitable minimum for pensions... not tax pensions to the minimum wage... or other promises (nationals were - gradually). There you go! If you rejected action at the moment, I am asking you to decide today that we will do so in the future: by making a concrete, paper-recorded promise before the elections that we will do so in 2020. Currently, the law provides that in 2018 the untaxed minimum - 3000 euros per year, in 2019 it will rise to 3240. The only thing we are doing is keeping this chain and telling us what all the parties are promising is that in 2020 there will be an unlimited minimum of EUR 5160 per year. And now the situation is: if we do not vote this, then we should pull this promise out of the party programmes, because it is focused on the future of 2020. That is why, I think, this vote will be important and it will be worth publishing. I call on you to support the proposal of the Association of the Regions of Latvia - to make sure that in 2020 we will actually provide an unlimited minimum pension to the minimum wage. Thank you, colleagues. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U120	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U121	Nor has the Commission supported this proposal, given that there is currently no financial resources. But, of course, parties can continue to work on this in the future. As I have already said, we hope that the inequitable minimum will be raised more quickly, while at the same time resolving the issue of minimum pensions and social security benefits, which could be even more topical in terms of inequality and poverty. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 5, for - 44. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U123	4. - Mr Andrejs Klementyev's proposal on the deadline for the entry into force of the law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U125	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U126	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U128	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U129	Hello, dear colleagues! Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees’, second, final, reading. We have received three proposals from the Commission. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U131	The proposal is also supported by the Commission. This is the proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U133	And 3. - the final proposal. Also supported. This is the proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U135	We have examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U136	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Culture Capital Foundation”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U137	Colleagues! The Commission has not received any proposals for second reading, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U138	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Culture Capital Foundation”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U139	Dear colleagues, The Commission received three proposals from the Legal Bureau for this draft law. They are all editorial and do not change the substance of this law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U141	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U143	And also 3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U145	Consequently, all proposals have been considered. I call for support to be given to this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U146	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Creative Persons and Professional Creative Organisations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of India on Air Transport”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U147	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law on the Protocol amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of India on Air Traffic. The Commission examined the draft law at second reading and supported it. Two proposals were received. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U148	Proposal No 1. The proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission Members are in favour. And also 2. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. Members are in favour. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of India on Air Transport! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda – draft law “On the Treaty to combat counter-false and counterfeiting, concluded on 9 July 2004 between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. , the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and those Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets” and the Treaty amending the Agreement between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. , the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and those Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets,’Reasoned’, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U149	We are working on the draft law “On the Treaty on the Elimination of the Treaty and the General Exemption between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. , the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and those Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets” and the Treaty amending the Agreement between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. ‘, the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and the Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets,’ shall be deleted. The Commission supported the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U150	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “On the Treaty for the Elimination of the Republic of Contraband and Counterfeiting and the General Exemption, concluded on 9 July 2004 between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. , the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and those Member States indicated on the attached signature sheets” and the Treaty amending the Agreement between Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris Products Inc., Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and Philip Morris World Trade Sarl. Support for the third, final reading of the European Community, represented by the European Commission, and for the Member States indicated on the attached pages of signatures’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Riga Latvian Society House Law”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvīds Platopers.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U151	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, The Education, Culture and Science Commission has prepared for the third reading of the draft law “Riga Latvian Society House Law”. Ten proposals were considered. Proposal No 1. An Education, Culture and Science Commission was nominated. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U153	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U155	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U157	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U159	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U161	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U163	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U165	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U167	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U169	And 10. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U171	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for the vote at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U172	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Riga Latvian Society House Law” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Management”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U173	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to Land Management Law” (No 1079/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined this draft law for its third reading. Nine proposals were received in total. 1. - That's Mr. Roman Moneys's proposal. It was partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U175	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U177	3. - That's Mr. Roman Moneys's proposal. It was partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U178	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U179	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U181	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U183	6. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U184	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U185	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U187	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U189	And finally 9. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U191	Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I call on my fellow Members to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U192	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on Land Management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalization of Documents”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U193	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalization of Documents” and has decided to support it and direct it for consideration at the first reading of the Saeima meeting. This draft law is related to the next item on the agenda - the draft law “Amendments to the Notarial Law”. The aim of this draft law is to make it easier, faster and more accessible for individuals to legalise public documents issued in Latvia that are intended to be used abroad. The amendments proposed in this draft law are intended to transfer to the performance of the function of Latvian sworn notaries - the certification of public documents issued in Latvia with the inscription apostille function - which is currently performed by authorised foreign service employees. The free resources of the Foreign Service could be directed to optimise the provision of consular assistance and other consular services, as demand for these services is constantly increasing. The amendments also prohibit the legalisation of derivatives and translations of identity documents made in Latvia. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U194	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalisation of Documents”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U195	The Legal Commission is asking for a deadline for the submission of proposals to be set at 2 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U196	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U197	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” and has decided to support it and to direct it for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima at first reading. And, as I have just said to you, this draft law is related to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legalisation of Documents”. This draft law also provides that sworn notaries legalize public documents issued in Latvia with certification of apostille. The proposed amendments establish the procedure for legalization of notaries by apostille, conditions for exemption from payment of the notary's remuneration and delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to establish the procedure for establishing and maintaining the e-apostille register (i.e. the procedure for electronic apostille) and the amount of the information to be included, as well as the procedure and extent to which the information is submitted in the register and issued from the register. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U198	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U199	I also ask you to set 2 October for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U200	Thank you. Proposals are due by 2 October of this year. On the agenda: Draft law amending the Criminal Law, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U201	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Criminal Law”, which complements the criminal law with a new article 307.1. In the second reading, we received three proposals. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which is editorial. It has partially supported the creation of 2. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U202	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U203	2. is a proposal from the Legal Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U205	3. - The proposal of the Legal Office concerns a sanction. That Article provides for liability for breach of the prohibition on the reproduction and distribution of criminal case material and originally provided that one of the types of punishment would be deprivation of liberty. However, when discussing the proposal to exclude this penalty, the Legal Commission supported a sanction for temporary deprivation of liberty, forced labour or a fine. Consequently, the proposal of the Legal Office is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U207	Given that all three proposals have been supported, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U208	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U209	October 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U210	Thank you. Proposals are due by 2 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Diplomatic Passport”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U211	We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Diplomatic Passport””. The Foreign Affairs Commission supported the second reading, no proposals were received. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U212	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Diplomatic Passport”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U213	October 3rd.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U214	October 3th?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U215	October 3rd.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U216	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U217	Hello, colleagues! A total of 33 proposals were received by the Legal Commission for this draft law and, in its assessment, adopted relevant decisions. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U219	The second is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice, but it has been partly supported by the inclusion of proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U220	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U221	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U223	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U225	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U227	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U229	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U231	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U233	9. - The motion by the Member is moving. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U234	Dear colleagues, Before we start the debate on this subject, I informed you that my application for the parliamentary session has been received from Members Kola, Nemina, Brigmanis, Zarins and Dalder, with a request for it to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. So the sitting of the Saeima will continue without interruption. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U235	Colleagues! For this draft law, I tabled three proposals relating to a new article: Article 375.1 on the right of journalists to have access to criminal case materials. And thank you to the Legal Commission, which supported (or partly supported) my proposals. I'd like to speak not because the elections are coming... But the norm that we will incorporate into the law is very important. Unfortunately, this is a compromise. And that means that the norm is not perfect, it should be improved. However, it is also clear to me that if the 12th Saeima does not accept this today, then after the elections several people will change their views and they will once again talk about the fact that journalists should not study the material that it is wrong, it is wrong. But given that there are no comments about the new norm, and in the near future, research journalists will certainly try to get to know the materials, I would like to draw attention to some important points. On the proposals. My proposal - Amendment 9 - is essentially editorial. I propose moving the norm from the first part to the second part, saying clearly that if a person is rehabiliated, then, of course, the relevant materials will not be able to study. And it is supported. I really do not want to talk about every proposal. I would like to draw immediate attention to the issues that exist. In particular, the second paragraph of that Article provides that access to criminal case files is refused in certain cases. In my opinion, this list should not have been very long, because there is a third part which provides that there is an opportunity to analyse, evaluate and decide whether or not to permit access to materials. Unfortunately, however, the compromise is that we have and will remain the second part with a fairly high list. And there's one question that I want to pay attention to. In particular, paragraph 6 states that if a minor is involved in criminal proceedings, access to the materials of a criminal case shall be refused. I am concerned that the leaders of some institutions will simply refuse when deciding on the application of the relevant provision, stating that they had been questioned in some volume, for example, by a minor witness. This interpretation, in my opinion, is not correct and may interfere with the objectives that we define. It is clear that if there is information about the minor, its information should be protected, it should not be passed on, say, for reading. But it is also possible that there are 10 volumes and there is a corresponding protocol in 10. I agree that Volume 10 should not be shown to researchers, but should not serve as a basis for refusing to read and get acquainted with Volume 1, 2, 3 and other volumes. I would very much like to hope that, if there is a request - motivated request - to allow journalists to study information, our heads of institutions, prosecutors and judges will not interpret the relevant norms formally. And if it is possible for journalists to have access to the material, they will be given the opportunity. And I very much hope, colleagues, that you will support the option developed by the Legal Commission. And I would very much like to hope that the new article, which we will incorporate into the criminal procedure law, will provide our society with an opportunity to receive important information and to know about facts that can really cause problems for society if they are defaulted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U236	I closed the debate. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission? Please call me! ( Internouncing call.) So is the vote required? No vote shall be required. Thank you. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U237	Thank you. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The motion by the Member is moving. This has been partly supported by the incorporation of proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U239	11. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U241	12. - Mr. Judin's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U242	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U243	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U245	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U247	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U249	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U251	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U253	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U255	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U257	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U259	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U261	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U263	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U265	24. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U267	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U269	26. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U271	27. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U273	28. - Member Curra's proposal. Here you have to point out, colleagues, that those leaves have been changed... The Commission's decision is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U274	So 28 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U275	28. - not supported. Dear colleagues, it has been changed...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U276	Colleagues, you have an additional page at the table, page 127 has been replaced by 127.A.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U277	So it's changed. And this proposal is not supported. In the Legal Commission, after examining the Member Kūtra's proposal, we chose to compromise after the General Prosecutor's opposition: to maintain the existing version, in the hope that the Ministry of Justice will prepare a reasonable proposal, in which way the right of a person to property upon request of a foreign prosecutor will be restricted for no longer than provided for in Latvian law. It is simply a matter of eliminating this inconsistency. At the same time, however, I would like to withdraw this proposal, Member Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U278	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U279	29. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U281	30. - Member Curra's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U283	31. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Some support has been given as part of the proposal 32.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U284	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U285	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U287	And 33. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U289	I call on my fellow Members to support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U290	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U291	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission has examined the draft law prepared by the Ministry of Justice “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations” and has decided to direct it to the first reading. As I can see, it is necessary to clarify the matter more strongly in relation to this law. So I would like to point out to Members, firstly, about the progress of the draft law and the procedure, secondly, about the need for a draft law and, thirdly, about the most important draft law, we will also vote on it. On progress of the bill. When we discussed the draft law within the Commission, we had at least three different directions. The draft law developer - the Ministry of Justice - of course expressed support for his “product”, the legal office of the Saeima was quite persuasive with regard to certain articles of the draft law, and finally, Members were those who expressed different proposals and opinions. It was clear to the members of the Commission that the 12th Saeima, in the light of the elections to the parliamentary elections, would not be able to cope with the improvement of the draft law. It is likely that a working group will have to be set up for some time. We are aware that we are currently voting at first reading, we are setting specific deadlines for the submission of proposals, but work will have to be done for the next 13th Saeima. The need for a bill. Now I'm here... A little colleague Latkovsky confused about this draft law, thinking it was a draft law of the Lutheran Church... I have to explain that, in fact, this draft law prepared by the Ministry of Justice has been produced according to the task of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. It was created because in the judgment of 26 April 2018, the Constitutional Court recognised a number of norms - Section 7, Section 2, Section 7, Section 3, and Section 8, Section 8, as being contrary to Articles 99 and 102 of the Satversme. And the transitional period was not granted by the Constitutional Court. In fact, the situation has developed that there have been some contradictions for five months now, which we, as legislator, should correct. The principle of good administration and the principle of legal certainty, which arises from Article 1 of the Satversme, require this. I need to tell you in the main trains about what the Constitutional Court actually changed with its judgment. I'm talking to you right now, but actually a verbatim, because this law will be passed over by the next Saeima. First. Since 1995, when the Law on Religious Organizations was adopted up to this year, so for 23 years, it was stipulated in our country that there may be only one church in one religion. This was determined by the relevant article of the Law on Religious Organisations. So, for example, if the Confession is Lutheran, then only one Church could exist in the Lutheran Confession. If there is a Orthodox Confession, then only one Orthodox Church could be a Orthodox Confession. However, since the judgment of the Constitutional Court, an unlimited number of churches can be registered in one church. Let's say, Churches that attract themselves to the Baptist Confession can be just 15 or 20, or how... the extent to which these relevant registration procedures have been complied with. Secondly. In Latvia, from 1995 to this judgment of the Constitutional Court, the following procedure existed: if a religious organization starts its activities in Latvia for the first time, then this church or these churches acquires, as I would say, “the registration of the term” (in brackets), which must be renewed every year for 10 years from the place until it becomes a permanent religious organization. The legal purpose of such a procedure was to verify the loyalty of the respective congregations to the state of Latvia and their compliance with the legislation; the Ministry of Justice was responsible all the time. The decision of the Constitutional Court annulled this procedure, and today any religious organization, even the most exotic (e.g. from Africa), can send an application for electronic registration to the Register of Enterprises and may be registered as a religious organisation in a few weeks' time. The most important thing in the draft law. The Ministry of Justice made certain adjustments to this law, which are required by the change of relations between this essential state and the Church, and tried to get out of this situation by strengthening those particular churches, i.e. the Roman Catholic Church, which has a treaty with the Holy See, and a number of other churches, which have special laws, including Lutheran, and created the relevant norm, which Mr. Latkovsky also had to discuss. It is a paragraph 1.1 that states: “There are traditional churches in Latvia that are the Latvian Joint Methodist Church, the Latvian Baptist Church Union, the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church, the Latvian Orthodox Church, the Latvian Old-believers Pomor Church, the Riga Jewish Religious Church, the Roman Catholic Church in Latvia and the Seventh Day Adventist Latvian Church.” So... And I would also like to debate accordingly after those colleagues. That is actually all in the report. I would ask you to accept, support this draft law, because it is necessary to regularise these issues after the Constitutional Court has adopted its judgment. There's no other way. Another question is that we can, of course, adjust and take a different look at these issues in this bill, but it is likely that the next Saeima will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U292	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U293	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Continuing on this point, I will first refer to the intermediate references and previous indications that I am mixing two laws here. No, by no means! I'm very well aware... Also the draft law on the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church... It's even more difficult to go here... and this is even a broader law, because it's about religious organizations in general. But! Listen, colleagues! I'll speak calmly. Let us try to structure this issue a little bit. These two laws touch on one of the issues that occurred here, two churches that have historically formed. If your intention is not to stand on one side (there is also a certain standing against the Diaspora, against its organisations), then let's think about how to deal with it. Well, I think there are not many who would consciously like to stand on one side and, essentially, at this point, to escalate the conflict when perhaps there are only a few differences. There are two approaches. One, first, I represent... we respect both sides, and politicians do not intervene. Politicians do not intervene in church affairs as far as possible, and both parties agree. When they have agreed, we start working on the law - how to record it in the letter of the law. The second approach is legal, it could be said, primarily legal, when the letter of the law is first. We have some legal rules in front of us, and we appeal to many of them... And, unfortunately, there's someone else clinging behind... It was difficult for me to follow Mr Baloža's very competent explanation, but there's so much... that it disappears. The result in this particular case will be a category of standing on one side (in particular, on the side of the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church) - against the Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia, which, in essence, is already the Latvian Church. What are the main legal arguments here? Rejection to the Constitution, Constitutional Court... Neither the Constitutional Court nor the Constitutional Court obliges us to enter in any law... in which traditional Church, otherwise it could be said that one of these literary Churches is on the list of recognized Churches, the other is not. By adopting this bill, we will do it. Then there is the question: What interferes with the recording of both or not? Before that, we had a comment in our discussions: yes, the Civil Law says maybe that and so. I don't know, I haven't tested, but perhaps, because the Civil Law probably didn't foresee this situation at that time. Then perhaps it is also necessary to make some adjustments to the Civil Law if we want to resolve the issue in substance. My question at the moment is as follows: what are you... What demands us to create another rule of law that strengthens this superiority of one church over another? We can not do that. You don't have to do that! Now the second law will come - on the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church, which may not be necessary at all. And then we will refer to another law: “Yes, here is this law! We'd like to, but this law has already been written... We have strengthened that there is one correct church.” This is the essence of its legal approach if we make it a priority. And at present, we do not want to want to get to the attitude that we are against the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia, and we are also directly against the PBLA, whose board meeting takes place these days, and against the Diaspora organizations. If it is conscious, then I will say: a courageous decision on the eve of the elections! However, I call for the vote to be taken against this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U294	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U295	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Indeed, Mr Balozy, from this troupe, in connection with this draft law, was engaged in a kind of defamation or defamation. He has already said very clearly here: he is aware that there are significant problems in that bill, that this Saeima can no longer take responsibility for what it will eventually be accepted, and this will probably and obviously not be considered and completed in this Saeima. Dear colleagues, What and who has promised Mr. Balozh that he wants to get your name at all costs, so that this kind of defamation, that kind of snooze, can happen? Why should we give our name to such a draft law at first reading... where we conceptually support it... If it is absolutely clear that this draft law is of poor quality, will it divide our already divided people? For what? The judgment of the Constitutional Court is only a formal reason. Unfortunately, in this draft law, the Ministry of Justice has made a great many controversial cases against which the Legal Bureau of the Saeima strongly object. Now, let's not get off the side of cheating and humiliating! Let us not support this draft law at first reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U296	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U297	I think it is important, of course, to comply with the judgments of the Constitutional Court. And when a draft law calls for the Constitutional Court, it is possible that Members do not even have to think about it, they must turn the brain off and vote. But, colleagues, I would like to remind you that Article 99 of the Satversme states that the State is separated from the Church. And to those who do not understand, Article 5 of the Law on Religious Organizations reads the same thing, but from the other end, namely that the Church is separated from the State. The question is, if we offer... The authors suggest in article 5 that we have traditional churches. This means that there will probably be something unconventional. That is, the country is beginning to sort the Church - it is right and wrong, it is traditional and it is unconventional. Mr. Baloža, do you really not think that when we write it, we may try to execute one judgment of the Constitutional Court, but we will wait for a new trial before the Constitutional Court? For one defamatory religion will tell and ask: “Why are we discriminated against, why is it? Why are some better than us?” My call is to observe the provisions of Article 99 of the Satversme and not to interfere in the cases of the Church.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U298	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U299	No, well... Colleagues, are you following events at all and reading documents that are distributed to you in your boxes or sent to your e-mail? I am not the author of this bill! I'm not! That would be the answer to Mr Judin. The Ministry of Justice has drafted this bill. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “The applicants are the Human Rights Commission!” ) The story of traditional and non-traditional organizations is a long story. Yes, for decades, they have been arguing about it, even longer. And in this case... ( Milestones.) Why, Lolita Chigan, you're... Is that so? Why are you... Is that so? I'm talking on my own now, you know? I'm on my own! Prior to that, I spoke as rapporteur and reported that the Commission had received documents from the Ministry of Justice. And I can't talk to the hall, then I'd tell you, Judin. What's the story about? The story is that there's no snooze here. These things have been agreed in the parliamentary order. And if we adopt this draft law at first reading, then the next Saeima Commission will decide what to do next. In principle, it is about the fact that we have to do our work, not cover with the ruling of the Constitutional Court! The ruling of the Constitutional Court clearly states what its situation is, and contradictions - contradictions, exactly so! - concerning registration and the conduct of relations between the State and the Church. So we, the 12th Saeima, have the opportunity to show that we are, however, Members who respect legal certainty and decide that something really needs to be done. And in this case, what we're doing right now, we're talking about these things in the vernacular. And let's also give an opportunity to submit draft laws so that the next Saeima can get all of their case, read, analyse and think. What I would like to say is the list of traditional organisations that the Ministry of Justice has to list (the head of the sitting knocks on a hammer.) In verse 1.1, I am not satisfied. Jude and Chigan, I'm not satisfied either! Yeah... I would like to say the following: if the Ministry of Justice has said ‘a’, then I think it must also say ‘b’ and ‘c’. So, what do I mean? What should be done? So this offer from the Ministry of Justice has a serious disadvantage, and I understand it right now, because as well... Let's say, I have no personal objection to this list... But I didn't make it! It's a proposal from the Ministry of Justice... that in this list you can very simply get into da any organization. For example, we now have a full month, and if an organization, let us say, wants to register a church of full-month worshipers, I think they can do so if the documents are properly arranged. But after some time, perhaps even a few weeks after registration, they will want to get into this article 1.1 of the Ministry of Justice and they will not have any obstacles. Only as Members should vote on this proposal accordingly... and they will also be traditional. I think that is not acceptable. So I think there should be Article 1.2, which states that, in fact, only those are traditional... which have concluded agreements with the State and the Church. So the work of the government must be invested. The government concludes with a specific agreement of religious organizations, as is the case with Lutherans, Orthodoxs, Adventists, Methodists, Old Believers, and then a special law is adopted on the basis of this law, as is the case with Lutherans, Orthodoxs, Methodists, Adventists, and only then this Confession can be traditional. I have already heard that the Latvian Divine Society also wants to get to this list. If there is such a list, I think, of course, they also have to be there. But before that, we have to conclude a contract with the government so that we can have a shrug, I am sorry, that all its crazy discussions would not get here. A government with experts with sufficient expertise, let's say... and institutions are created for this, can do their work. And finally. The judgment of the Constitutional Court actually talks about the fact that, therefore, in one religion there may be no religious organizations, but Article 51 of the Civil Law speaks not of religious organizations... not, as the Ministry of Justice now proposes - that there is a list of religious organizations... but has been talked about confesions. And I think it really is not acceptable that any religious organization that has been registered today can acquire the right to register a marriage tomorrow. Even in our rather highly democratic, liberal society, there must be at least some order to follow, say, the marriage institution, which is linked to both children's rights and to the rights of women and all other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U300	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U301	Dear colleagues, I think there are three small nuances here. First. The judgment of the Constitutional Court was, and we have to make appropriate amendments to this Law in order not to create contradictions. That is first. We can reject one bill, but instead we should be another. Secondly. I agree with the fact that the Constitution establishes that the Church is separated from the State. But then be so kind and don't interfere in church affairs... 27 years! Then we split it tight! But no! We are a normal democratic country that is worried about them... Let's call it a general form - societies... so that associations operating in Latvia are not able to operate, harm the state or citizens of Latvia. The State has thus taken on some regulation, including the registration of various denominations, congregations and others. Just to register with a sense of security that in their training there is nothing bad about Latvia or even the people of Latvia. And this is a reasonable intervention in this church case. But where should Latvia not enter by law? These are canonical rights. In what the Church has established in its canons, the State of Latvia should not invade its laws. And if a church has established in its law that this church has its structure, its structure according to its canonical law, then hardly any state could say: no, you know, here you can establish two Churches under one roof. Finally, I will give you an example of why this draft law is necessary, which I think everyone will understand. For example, a party has been established. — Dep. A.Kamiņš: “No! No, no! No!” ), it is now working very normal. At one point, five or six members, I do not know, as in which case, it is - we separate and form party unity. So please say, which of the two parties is the Unity and who owns the money in the account of that party that has been received if the money is there? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Jaunup!” ) We do not change anything! This means that it is the responsibility of a country in this case to at least say that it has to have a very different name for us to understand if this party is... One party, for example, is a social-democratic party, while the other, who calls it social-democratic, is also a social-democratic party. Or not? Therefore, it is necessary to specify the cases in the law in order to enable the residents of Latvia to... There's another moment hidden at the bottom. In fact, I think Mr Latkovsky will agree: there is also a question of property hidden at the bottom. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It’s just a question!” ) And that's frightening. But that's the thing! In the 1990s, we have restored traditional churches in Latvia or, as it has been written, churches, and property was also restored to them, and at the same time, a self-named head of the Church would hardly be allowed to separate his church and say, “You know, I also have the right to this property!” This is no longer a normal solution, and the state should not be just a watchman from the side and say, “You are going to go out and we will decide!” The state must be precise: it is the same or not... Thank you. I would therefore call for support to be given to this draft law and, of course, to the proposals... take out what we think may not be appropriate, but what is appropriate... That is necessary.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U302	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U303	Thank you. My fellow lawyers have become good politicians and have mixed a lot of things in one bowl, so I would like to split up. First of all, on the Rule of Conduct roll. On the Order Roll. Drafter of the law and parliamentary commission, not the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers has established the order in which drafts prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers come to the legislator, and then really at first reading we support them conceptually and improve them in the Commission. Today, we handed over to the Commission a draft law that we prepared ourselves, which could have been improved during the Commission's meeting. The Commission asked for this to be examined at this same parliamentary meeting at first reading without a re-examination by the Commission. That is why we are also debating so much here. If the commission wanted, as Mr Ringolds Baloža said, to prevent these inaccuracys, it could have done so and submitted a draft law to the Saeima. On the Constitution and on the Civil Law. Yes, indeed, Article 51 of the Civil Law refers to religions to which the right to marry has been delegated (that is, those that were considered by the Civil Law of 1937 as having traditional denominations), by establishing that a person can choose whether he wants to enter into a marriage with his loved one. It's not about these confesions... that there would be traditional or non-traditional churches. Article 1.1 is innovation in this bill, and it is, in my view, a doctrinal innovation, with a very conscious view on the issues of future ownership only. Yes, indeed the Lutheran Church is divided on the basis of ownership. In the family drawer, this problem is also the law of Peter’s Church, we know. And there are several trials in courts. Today, shortly before the elections, we are not resolving this dispute, but we are holding up these religious organizations even more. On judgement of the Constitutional Court. The judgment of the Constitutional Court has already entered into force five months ago, on April 27th, and indeed the Constitutional Court did not provide for any transitional period in the judgment, because it considered that by recognising the mentioned legal provision as unconstitutional, by nature no real rob would be found by law, but also provided: if the legislator wants to, he will be able to delegate to perform some functions (for example, if we wish to review the delegation of the conclusion of marriage). But the judgment of the Constitutional Court in no place does not say that we should separate one Lutheran Church as a traditional, and another as a non-traditional one. At present, under the Civil Law, if a person belongs to the Lutheran Confederation, a person may choose the clergyman to whom he will be married, i.e. whether he will be a clergyman who belongs to the organization headed by Mr Vanaga, or a clergyman who is part of the Lutheran exile, and both of these marriages are recognised within the meaning of the Civil Law. Both of these marriages are recognized as marriages concluded by the Lutheran Church. After these amendments to the law, we will have the following: one will be a traditionally concluded marriage, and the other - obviously not traditional - will no longer be able to be considered as valid; there will still need to be an additional entry to the family list. That is perhaps the next step. Colleagues! Judgment of the Constitutional Court... Before the decision-making part is based on the Constitutional Court itself, how they justify why in general the legal provision should be declared invalid. That's because... The Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia has indicated that it cannot register in Latvia as a religious union (the Church), because it has already been registered as one religious union (the Church), therefore it should be considered a restriction of fundamental rights. That is why this Article 7 is to be regarded as anti-constitutional and invalid. Today we want to decide on a draft law that will further determine that the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia is untraditional. Colleagues! What does that mean - unconventional? How do we, as Members of the Saeima... Who gave us a mandate to say... Is that so? I belong to the Lutheran Church. But who has given me a mandate to say that those who are outside Latvia are unconventional, that those who have carried out their faith throughout this period of occupation, with the doctrine of continuity, including, have proved their belonging to the Lutheran Church of Latvia... are they unconventional? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balodis: “What does she say at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, () By law?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Baloža, what does that mean? Why did such a bill come into being in the Saeima? It is not a draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers. Then we could say: “The poor Cabinet does not understand what it is doing! We're going to fix and fix everything in the Saeima!” No, no! It is a very poor draft law of the Saeima Commission that you are putting before us here. I cannot support it. I hope that the next Saeima will really have a new bill. If for five months nothing could be arranged, then neither can today. And that goat's coming out so we have a new bill in the table next week. If I understand correctly, it will be a bill for the traditional Lutheran Church. So what? We'll vote for it, too? Let us continue this debate exactly for the same reason? First of all, first step, next Thursday, second step? Dear colleagues, In legal terms, this draft law cannot be supported. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U304	Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U305	I mean, beautiful! I don't even expect anyone to listen today. Some talk to their constituents, and they are very much expressing their liberal values... Let me have the joy of you! But first of all, let us start in the order and order that Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere said. Yes, formally, I agree that this is the opinion of the Commission. Those who were at the commission meeting... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “ Formally!” ) Latkovska... That is, Mr. Judin. ... I can't talk, but that's what I want to talk to you, I can't... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) So, in principle, if we are talking about the Commission's proposal, we have to go back to the story of what happened before the summer. We had a discussion and a rather passionate debate on the Lutheran Church Law, a separate working group was set up. And a working group with representatives of all the political groups, this working group, which I led, looked at these amendments to the Lutheran Church law. It was also forced to see this ruling of the Constitutional Court on 26 April and to what extent it concerns some legislative initiatives that we should do. The working group informed the commission that they could see these amendments to the Law of the Lutheran Church together with those changes required by the ruling of the Constitutional Court, but they could also see separately. And after the report, the commission commissioned the Ministry of Justice to prepare the appropriate draft law, because according to both the Law on Religious Organisations and the Statute of the Ministry of Justice, they are directly obliged to be the communicators of state and church relations. The Register of Enterprises shall be registered only. As a result, they presented, if I am not mistaken, last week or week... I really start to lose reality in the run-up to the elections, yes... He presented and presented his view. At first, they called for a loud discussion - that's right! - this article 1.1, and of course we had extremely diverse, diametrically opposite opinions. And, of course, it was... Mrs. Chigan, if she still has a desire to say something from the tribunal, she can come and also agree with me that she has proposed to prepare a draft commission - not one that is presented by the Ministry of Justice, but one that is new. I object because... Well, I'm good. L. Cigan: “Mlay! I didn’t take part in that sitting!” )... So as a result... I think that we can already do nothing today; we can also, in fact, reject it, but that is something that remains. And if we are talking about this situation, I think it would be good, however, to hand this draft law over to the next Saeima so that it can be evaluated, because it will be possible to prepare these draft laws in a normal manner for election and post-election (for some of them in a depressed atmosphere, and for others - quite the opposite - in a very excited atmosphere) too. This is a normal, serious one. And I think it's not even a one-month job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U306	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U307	Colleagues! I listen carefully to what others are talking about, and I do not have the voters that I now have to promote. As Mr Curry said, maybe there is the bottom question of property. I do not rule out that there is a property issue, and I would not be happy if it was a major issue, and I hope it is not. Perhaps there are also differences on the issue of women's coordination (for some) and perhaps also on the Istanbul Convention. Maybe. Although outside Latvia, the Church is not homogeneous. It's very different in its own... I think so. But... Well, in this case... On the one hand, the law is general, and we need to think about general standards. But we see that this is the most acute issue in this case about the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia. And that's a question of what... Yesterday the Chair of the PBLA Board also stressed that it is not necessary to ignore this issue and that Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia's interest not to reject with some kind of legal fines. But if in this context we call here also a threat to Latvia's state... We are talking about these two Latvian Churches and we are talking that now the Latvian State will be threatened by this... Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia... Or something... some self-proclaimed Church... Well, dear friends, we ignore the Latvian Evangelical Lutheran Church outside Latvia, our exile church, contribution to the restoration of Latvia's independence, the maintenance of Latvia's idea and its help after the restoration of independence: "Well, thank you for the help, thank you for the gifts, thank you for the moral support! Let's do it for ourselves!" However, I would ask you to think a little bit about, at least a little bit, respect and respect for this issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U308	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U309	I think we need to understand: we can also go so far that we need to define people how to pray properly: with eyes shut or with eyes open. Is it necessary to do this on the floor or on the knees? I think this is not defined. I think that this should be defined urgently here, from this platform; a bill should be adopted on how it should be done correctly. For if we start the day with the right way children are born, we end the day with the question of how to believe God correctly or wrong. It is true that the representatives of these two parties were present at a meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs in the summer. There was Vanag, and that's the other side - the Diaspora side. I say to them, “Lords, but you have one God. You have one Bible. What are you arguing about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And now we remember the same-sex marriage and everything else here, but in fact, the story here is about property! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Lībiņa-Egnere: “It’s it!” ) Only for the property! This is about money. Here the Saeima does not have to interfere in, so these two sides finally, as I ask them... and shook them with their head and said, "Yes, we will meet and sit down at the round table and get a normal opinion." As a result... I read in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law what consultations have been carried out in preparation of the draft law. What have you talked to? No, Mr. Baloze, all the respect! You're a smart lawyer, I'm very respectful of you. You're really very well prepared. But the point is different. Consultations have taken place... So if we're talking about Churches... Consultations have taken place with the Ministry of Justice, okay, with the Security Police, okay, with the Register of Enterprises... Yeah, okay, well, well... and with representatives of religious organizations. At least didn't forget to talk to them too! But it's interesting, with whom? With it on one side or with it on the other side? Or maybe with both sides? So, colleagues, don't damage your karma! Don't damage it while you can still! It was a pope. Many of you have been consecrated here, forgiven of your sins. Now, please reject this draft law so that they will be tried in court. The State is separated from the Church, and the court is an independent instance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “Right!” ) Thank you. Refuse me, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U310	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U311	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that there is going on... a very interesting event. In principle, most even talk about something completely different. So do what you want, and there has been a ruling of the Constitutional Court. ( The box “For the Commission! ”) ) It is more difficult to... ( The box “For the Commission! ”) ) registration............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It's on behalf of the Commission! ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) This is on behalf of the Commission. Vote as you wish.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U312	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Religious Organisations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 44, for - 13, for - 11. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals. ( Interface: “The next full moon! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U313	I could really... It's a full month, too, but... I mean, December 1st for the next Saeima to submit. You too can do that. 1 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U314	Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 1 December this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U315	The draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” has been drafted with a view to aligning the norms of the law with the amendments adopted by the Parliament on 21 June this year in the Law on State Civil Service, which specified the mandatory requirements for officials. I would just like to add that this draft law was unanimously supported by the Commission, in which representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the State Revenue Service and the State Chancellery participated. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to recognise the draft law as urgent and to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U316	First of all, urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - 7, for - 2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U317	And to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U318	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 9, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U319	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the adoption of a bill at second, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U320	Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 7, for - 3. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U321	Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U322	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins. ( The box “Let’s call an emergency sitting! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U323	Hello, colleagues! I understand very well that this bill is the last obstacle between you and lunch (Laughter) , so I will try very carefully to do all this. What do I want to say? Colleagues, today is a great day. I would even say, historical. Today we can call the tomb for the OIC. To do what the Ministry of Economics has promised for almost a year and continues to promise, but has still not done so. In particular, it concerns amendments to the law that would sort out the subsidised electricity production sector. Colleagues! Since this OIC story has been updated, we in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy... on several occasions, we have held Commission meetings on this issue. During this year, we have called the Ministry of Economics six times and discussed the necessary solutions and amendments to the law to regularise this sector. The Ministry of Economics has always promised to prepare them, but it has done nothing. Yesterday we had the seventh meeting to which we had been invited by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and in which the Ministry of Economics proposed the creation of a new working group. This led to general laughter in the Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “No, it wasn’t! No laughter!” ) That is why today the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is leading its bill and calls on the Saeima to approve it today at first reading. The nature of the draft law is simple. And the whole bill is on one page, colleagues. One page that could not be prepared by the Ministry of Economics for a year! It's like this. Given that this aid for the production of subsidised electricity... The aim of the support mechanism is to support efficient cogeneration... Production of electricity in cogeneration and from renewable energy sources, and the fact that the costs of this support are borne by all end-users of Latvian electricity, is not allowed to develop a situation in which the use of this support and the eligibility of the beneficiaries of the support are not effectively controlled, producers are overcompensated and the aid to be paid is used illegally and inefficiently, does not serve the purpose for which it is intended, namely to promote efficient production of electricity in cogeneration and from renewable energy sources. In view of all the above, we propose that appropriate clarifications and additions be made to the Electricity Market Act so that this situation can no longer be avoided. Firstly, to ensure that the aid is paid only to producers that fulfil the requirements of the aid. Secondly, to ensure that these requirements are effectively and adequately controlled. Thirdly, in order for the aid to be proportionate rather than excessive, and for economic operators which fraud or fail to comply with the conditions of the aid to be deprived of the authorisation and no longer have access to the aid. I would like to point out that considering this draft law today would not be possible without the political courage and courage of Romana Naudiņš, head of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, to drive this draft law forward, knowing (Applause). that the coalition partners, let us say so, have a very different attitude towards this OIC area. And I think the whole Latvian nation should also be grateful to His Holiness the Pope of Rome for this event. Because if the Roman pope hadn’t come to Latvia on Monday when the Coalition Council meetings took place (Interface: “For the Commission!” ), and this would have led to a meeting of the Coalition Council (interim: "On behalf of the Commission!" ), the members of the Commission (I think here in the coalition) would not have been entitled to vote in their conscience. ( The box “For the Commission! ”) ) But as a result of the visit by the pope of Rome, the entire commission has unanimously supported this project, and on behalf of the commission I call for it to continue. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “It wasn’t in the name of the commission!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U324	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U325	The Commission proposes to set the deadline for the submission of proposals on 16 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U326	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 October this year. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Answers to Members' questions. The question to the Minister of Health Anda Čakša “On adequate operational security of the national health insurance system” by Members Zarina, Tretjaka, Niconova, Zuvėv and Zemļinska. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the pressure it is not possible to arrive at an oral response. Member Arthur Rubika, Raimonds Rubika, Tretyaka, Morozova and Cilevičs question to the Minister of Agriculture Janis Dūklavs “On safety control in cases of spread of virus infection in animal holdings”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Therefore, today's replies to Members' questions will not take place at 17.00. One question has been received from Members. Members Zarins, Adamsons, Morozovs, Urbanovičs and Tutin presented the question “On tax debtors and recovery of tax debts”, which is submitted to the Minister for Finance for response. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, Tomorrow, on the traditional Saeima Open Door Day, we will introduce the Latvian state’s creation story and the exhibition “At the Swing of Latvia”. Name for the statement to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U327	Colleagues! I understand, you're going away... But attention to those who are in the German group! We have such an ISP programme in cooperation with the Bundestag of the Federal Republic of Germany and the University of Berlin Humbolt, and two students who have been with both Lībiņa-Egnere and one of the SASKAN Members are now the last days in Latvia... And we call on those who are members of a group of Members who are members of the German Parliament to meet in five minutes' time at the Saeima Visitor and Information Centre, where we will listen to students' conclusions about our work and give their diplomas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U328	Name to a member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U329	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Aldis Adamovičs, Aija Barča, Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Oj Dear colleagues! Currently not registered: Aldis Adamovičs, Aija Barča, Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Līga Kozlovska, Armands Krauze, Jelena Lazareva, Renārs Putniņš and Artis Rasmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-09-27-PT12-494-U330	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
