ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! Let's start the parliamentary sitting on February 8, 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting to be included in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for the Activities of New Enterprises”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Geospatial Information” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tax Application in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Barn Courts” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Notary Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Land Register Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. On behalf of the Group Unity, Mr Hosam Abu Meri has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U2	Good morning, colleagues! Madam President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Ministry of Education and Science has prepared amendments to the law for the gradual transition of minority schools to Latvian-language learning. The aim of these changes is to provide every child in Latvia with equal opportunities to get quality education. We need to ensure that young people have a level playing field so that, when they complete secondary education, they are able to study at national universities, regardless of their nationality. The education system is at the heart of the integration of society. Finally, it is necessary to put an end to the division of society. All children must grow up and learn together, talk to each other and cooperate from school’s promises. Fraction Unity believes that teaching in Latvian is not an assimilation of society or efforts to take away the identity of a minority. Latvian is one basic element of the country to build a united and integrated society. Without providing a single education system in the language of the country, we will never be able to put an end to the fact that there are two parallel worlds in our society, two different information spaces, and that it is easy for non-state-friendly media to manipulate information and the way in which it is presented. The Latvian language is and will be the Priority of Unity. It has been a priority of the Minister since 2004, when Shadurski launched reforms related to linguistic education. At the time, accusations and curses were sent over the head of the minister, in fact hiding behind all the forces that want to divide society. Already then, it was believed that teaching in Latvian would bring together our children and young people. While others tried to strengthen the Latvian language in words only, Kārlis Šadurskis and Unity made a decision about the transition to Latvian learning and invites to implement it in their lives. The critiques related to the potential problems related to the ability of pupils to learn Latvian in the secondary school stage do not pass the criticism, because already now students of all nationalities in secondary vocational education institutions not only study in Latvian, but successfully learn the content of the studies, successfully complete them and join in one of the higher education institutions. We support the possibility for minority societies, communities to maintain and learn their language and culture and will follow the necessary funding for those educational institutions that implement minority education programmes in accordance with international treaties. Colleagues! This is a question of the self-esteem and existence of our country. A person cannot feel belonging to his country, respect and proud of it if he does not know the history of his country, does not know its culture, or does not manage its language. I have learned Latvian, and it has helped me to get to know and understand Latvia, a country that has given me home and helped me develop. It has not deprived me of belonging or understanding of the culture of my homeland. I still cannot and will never believe that after 27 years Latvia regained its independence, we still have to discuss and talk about such fundamental and self-evident issues. I want to remind you... I would like to remind some people in this hall and those who gather outside the Saeima House and who have just spoken the language of another country that Latvia is here! Here is the land of the Latvian nation, and this country is an independent state! (Applause) And I would also like to remind you that the Latvian language was, is and will be the only language of the country! ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I therefore call on you to support the referral of the draft law on general education and the draft law on education to the committee and to discuss them, without undue emotion, in the committee's sittings, with a view to their approval by the Saeima in the near future. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U3	Thank you. on behalf of the Group. - Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U4	President-in-Office. Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, Mary spoke well. Really! I would also like to remind you that the draft law under consideration forms a whole with the following draft law: Amendments to the Education Act, so both should be examined together. Both legal acts drastically reduce the possibilities to preserve the identity of minorities belonging to Latvia, so both must be rejected. We hear that education reform is good for Latvian. However, the package of measures for the reform of minority education does not only concern education; it affects opportunities for ensuring the identity of minorities. And it is a great disaster that the interests of one ethnic group are guaranteed at the expense of the interests of another ethnic group, even if one group's mother tongue is a national language. Parents send their children to school not only because they want to prepare them for adulthood but also because they see the continuation of their family at school. Language is not just a cultural product and carrier. Language is a means of continuing the family and the culture of the people. Therefore, the teaching of children and adolescents must take place mainly in the family language. This was well understood during the Third Awakening, when it was recognised that Latvian culture has survived due to two conditions: Latvians in rural and Latvian schools. That is why the politicians of the People's Front of Latvia, with the aim of obtaining a favourable attitude from Gentiles towards the elections to the Supreme Council of the Latvian SSR, addressed them on 18 March 1990 with an appeal that I have allowed to send you yesterday. I'm showing: there it is! Runner's mailboxs drop the flysheets. In them, the LTF called for: “Do not believe them, because the LTF supports the right of national minorities to comprehensive secondary education in their mother language, as well as promotes the opening of national schools in Latvia and their further development. If necessary, LTF contributes to the acquisition of higher education in the chosen language outside Latvia.” Our power is a child of the political victory of the People's Front of Latvia. This victory only became possible because the people believed the People's Front. If you had not believed, the LTF would not be close to power in Latvia. We have moral commitments, and they are not separable from the victories of the time. If we forget, the deceivers will remind us of them. And this is not about anxiety. There are more harsh things: it is disappointment and alienation, which are always sown by unfulfilled promises. On the centenary anniversary of the establishment of the Republic of Latvia, both draft laws - this one too - are a bad gift for our country. I call for this draft law not to be supported by voting 'no' or 'no' votes. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U5	Thank you. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Member Igor Pimenov has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U6	Dear Members, I do not have time to describe the articles and parts of the existing Education Law governing the acquisition of education in other languages, namely minority languages, which will be amended by the norms of this draft law. I would just mention the main results of the amendments. The minority secondary education programme will no longer be implemented in secondary school. As a result, the state removes any obligation to teach in secondary school in minority languages. Second. In the primary education programme of minorities from grade 7 to grade 9 the learning content will be provided in the national language, including foreign languages, at least 80 per cent of the study load, i.e. in almost all subjects, given that over 10 per cent of the remaining 20 per cent of the minority's mother tongue and literature lessons are needed. And the third. Training in Latvian private education institutions in minority languages is discontinued and in future is possible only in state language. This will put an end to the possibility of learning in other languages, even paying children's lessons from their wallet after paying taxes, from which education is maintained in state and municipal institutions. The education system failed to teach the Latvian language in hours. This teaching in minority schools is under any criticism. However, the Cabinet is determined to replace language learning with the Latvian language training of children belonging to minorities. After the adoption of the Education Law in 1988, this is the second wave of Latvian teaching of children belonging to minorities. And it is also planned to implement it without any scientific justification, objective research, without coordination with children's parents and without extensive consultation with professional organisations. Latvianisation of minority national training is based on Article 4 of the Satversme: “State language in the Republic of Latvia is Latvian.” Articles 112 and 112: ‘The State shall provide access free of charge to primary and secondary education. Basic education is compulsory.’ They stress that the existing articles entail an obligation for the State to provide education in the national language. However, in 2005 Latvia ratified the General Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of National Minorities. Latvia ratified the Convention - so it is not contrary to the Constitution. It follows from Article 14 of the Convention: If the minority residents of Latvia wish to study or teach their children in the minority language and if this request is sufficient, it is the duty of the State to ensure, within the framework of the state education system, adequate opportunities to learn the minority language or to acquire education in that language in the territory which is historically or in large numbers inhabited by persons of national minorities. According to the 2011 census, 37 percent of Latvian residents speak Russian. More than 28 percent of all school students study in Russian as part of minority education programmes. I conclude that the demand for training in Russian has been demonstrated quite convincingly. Parents, who are more than a third of Latvian residents, have a reasonable right to request that the state provide training in the language in which they bring up their children from the taxes they pay. Meanwhile, the reform, which is based on the draft law under consideration, ignores this request. I call for the draft law not to be supported and voted against. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U7	Mr Aldis Adamovičs has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U8	Dear colleagues, Good morning! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Without emotions and politics, I want to mention a little bit of statistical data. Data from the study “Language situation in Latvia 2010-2015” show that about 40 percent of young Latvians of Latvian minorities can speak excellently. Around the same number of young people know Latvian well, and only 22 percent admit that they have learned Latvian at the level of basic skills or that they know it weakly. The study also shows that every year the number of graduates of minority education programmes choose to pass state tests in Latvian. 2013/2014 In the school year, 76 percent of minority learners made this choice, while 2016/2017. in school year - 92 percent. This means that currently less than seven percent of students are undergoing state tests in minority languages. Currently, professional and higher education is provided in the state language. The Consultative Council on Minorities Education has also expressed conceptual support for the gradual transition to state language training in secondary schools. The need for a change in the bilateral education system to move towards a homogeneous society has been recognised by experts and also by the Ombudsman's Office. In order to ensure successful implementation of changes in education, targeted support measures will also be implemented for educators to develop professional competence and state language skills. Support will be provided both by developing and providing teaching tools and methodological materials, as well as by improving teachers’ professional competence in learning content, as well as state language development skills. And about the implementation process itself. I would like to say that, already this year, in 12th grade, centralised examinations will take place only in Latvian. I think it will make it easier for many young people to pass these exams. The introduction of new educational guidelines will also be started in the pre-school from 1 September of this year, which will significantly increase the role of the Latvian language in the teaching process already at this stage. By 2019/2020 The start of the school year is to start the transition from the existing five minority education models to the new three minority education models in primary education, thus providing 50 per cent of the study subjects in the national language and 50 per cent in minority languages from grades 1 to 6. As well as from 1 September 2019, the transition to a new model of binary education is started in 7-9th grade, which provides that not less than 80 per cent of the teaching content is taught in the state language. And here I would like to say to Mr Pimenova that these are not one or two objects, but four five items in the relevant minority language. From 2019/2020 The 9th grade of the school year will also take place in the state language, and from 2020/2021. In general education institutions 10 and 11 of the school year, all general education subjects will be presented in the state language, while maintaining the opportunity for minority pupils to learn minority language, literature as well as modules for cultural and historical subjects in their mother tongue. At the same time, Latvian language and culture are also the basis for connecting Latvian societies, therefore the aim of society as well as the state is to maintain the language and ensure the values of national identity, civil society and society integration in the long term. The role of the state language in Latvia will be strengthened in the implementation of the secondary school’s transition to training in the state language, while ensuring the specificity and development of the national cultures of different nationalities of Latvia. I invite you to support this draft law and to pass it on to the Commission. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 67, against - 21, abstaining. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. (Applause) Name of the report on the motives for voting to Mr Edvinas Šnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The National Association supports this draft law, because the transition to education in Latvian has been our idea since the first day. In the Saeima this case was initiated already 21 years ago - in 1997. However, the issue has always been postponed and postponed, and only now - after two decades - has the political will finally emerged as the national centenary approaches the practical implementation of this process. I would like to thank our colleagues from other parties who support the transition to education in Latvian, as well as the Minister of Education and Science Šadurskis, who is implementing this process in life. Russian schools in Latvia are left of occupation. This has nothing to do with the rights of national minorities, because these schools were introduced mass after the Second World War to meet the needs of the USSR immigrants. But under the General Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the USSR immigrants are not considered a minority in Latvia. We see that today Russian schools are often used for similar purposes. Transcriptions from the Oligarch negotiations show that it is the fact that Russian schools have been one of the main factors in the scheme of temporary residence permits initiated by Sleser. Young people of Latvian minorities, those to whom this law will apply, are not protest organisers. Many of them plan to join Latvian universities, where education is already Latvian, and the transition to Latvian will only facilitate their further education, so rarely one of them will object. The Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its various partners in Latvia protest more loudly. Their concerns are understandable. If there are no Russian schools here, there will also be no basis for the Russian world - the basis of the Kremlin's foreign policy doctrine. This cannot be tolerated at any cost. Therefore, the activities of Russian-sponsored non-governmental organizations and various agents in Latvia are centred around one main goal – to prevent the transition to Latvian in Russian schools. These activities are not in the interests of both Latvian and Latvian citizens. Several years ago, when voting in a referendum, Latvian citizens clearly reaffirmed what has already been written in the Constitution: Latvia has one language: Latvian. Whether you like it or not, it is the will of the Latvian people, which must be respected and adequately reflected in the education system of Latvia. National minorities in Latvia have and will continue to have the rights and opportunities to learn their mother tongue, to preserve their identity by learning the state language. Just as it is everywhere else in Europe. This is a normal European practice. ( Internouncing call.) Not only Russian students, but also their teachers who now seem to form the basic mass of various protests. It is no secret that many of them still find the language of the country difficult. According to this bill, finally they, the teachers of Russian schools, will learn to speak in Latvian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U11	Thank you. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on State Information and Communication Technology Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” submitted by the Member Neimina, Ilmāra Latkovska, Kola, Jansons, Baloža, Smiltēna, Rūdnieks, Laizāne and Lejiņa be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Mr. Ritvars Jansons, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U12	Dear colleagues, The essence of the draft law proposed by the Saeima “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the District Council” is to prevent the election of persons who are or have been members of the USSR, Latvian SSR or foreign security services, intelligence or counter-intelligence services not only of state staff, but also of informants. Here, we must express our appreciation for Artus Neminiņš as the initiator and author of the bill. Currently, the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic of Lithuania allows to stand and take office as Member of the former informants of the USSR, Latvian SSR State Security Committee. And the situation is absurd, because a candidate for the Member's post, the former KGB informer, can deny his cooperation with the KGB and not inform the public or public institutions about it, but can stand unhindered to stand for the Member's office, and the voter cannot even know about this person's possible relationship with the KGB. Section 15 of Saeima Election Law provides that the Central Electoral Commission shall ensure that before the elections the names and surnames of the candidates for whom the Centre for Documentation of the Effects of Totalitarianism have the information that it has at its disposal, the State Archives or other state storage facilities have documents showing that these candidates may have cooperated with the USSR, Latvian SSR or foreign security services, intelligence services or counter-intelligence services as external employees, agents, residents or holders of a conspirative apartment, thus - also as informants. Nothing similar about publishing surnames will be found in the Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic. The law does not provide for the provision of such information to voters before the elections. The draft law proposes to remedy the shortcomings of the law in the name of protection of the democratic state system, in the name of defending the interests of national security and territorial unity of an independent state, by prohibiting former Soviet and Latvian SSR KGB informants from becoming members of local government. On behalf of these interests, it is also necessary to prohibit former informants of the USSR and the Latvian SSR State Security Committee from standing for the post of Member of the Saeima and from taking up the post of Member of the Saeima. In the near future, the members of the Group of the National Alliance will submit a corresponding draft law to your decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U13	Mr. Valdis Kalnozols has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U14	Hello, brothers and sisters! As far as I know, not the municipal elections are coming, but the parliamentary elections are coming. The so-called pre-election ambassadors are starting to appear - attractive draft laws in the fight against the people's disgusting KGB. Mr. Leiņi (who is also the author), perhaps tell me about his activities in Afghanistan! Who else does Gunāra Meierovica represent the Central Intelligence Administration in Latvia? Was the SAB... Mr. Kažciņš was or was not a representative of the foreign service MI6? How do we find out who the CIA, Mossad, MI6, FDD and other foreign services are? We can still decipher the KGB's workpieces in Delta's and cheque's bags. But how will we identify representatives of other foreign security services? And how will this law apply to so-called loyal KGB staff, some of whom sit between us here? ( The box “Who? ”) ) I think I mentioned some of the “Sputnik” in my previous sitting. I understand some gentlemen who objectively value their actor's talent and understand that they do not have a chance on the theatre stage, that here, among colleagues who have a weak sense of the secrets of actor art, there is a much better chance that here in the Saeima, actor art is much better rewarded than, for example, in the neighbouring National Theatre, and who are excitedly working for God! - I wouldn't get back on the stage again. And what happened? Some attractive points of view were supported last meeting by these same stakeholders in amending the law. Don't be embarrassed! Why don't you go on the usual path - to hunt the permitted support with your Member's opinion? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, let me talk about the matter!” ) Someone's... someone is not a good man enough - neither family can create, nor children create... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, put the order in order!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U15	On the bill...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U16	Yet, though, has someone been embarrassed, even though I have not heard an apology? ( Interfaces: On the amendments in the speech!) ) Despite the fact that the Coalition Cooperation Council has supported these attractive draft laws of the KGB “Corporate Hunting” created in the run-up to the pre-election climate, however, I call for a sense of mind and not to allow the election of voters to be pre-elected. Yes, the KGB archives must be opened - and the faster the better! - to light those who are behind them, the grey forces that are stealing our country are being manipulated by politicians, officials, the media and law enforcement authorities. I believe that with some good draft of this law, as an idol of the crowd, these hidden representatives of the grey forces have long been bowed down and offered their helping hand for cooperation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Disable the microphone!” ) We do not make senseless laws that will not be of practical benefit to the state or citizens! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “The amendments are being discussed!” ) We spend better our energy and time on being good owners in our own land (Dep. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, can you stop this?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “) to arrange together the kingdom that the people have entrusted to us! Breaking disputes, intrigues, misunderstandings, insults! We are united, we set a common goal: the future goal we want for children of Latvia, and together we reach it! In my opinion, this amendment to the law has been made with the support of this grey force. Why? Because it is against the coalition Treaty.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U17	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Elections of the City Council and the Regional Council of the Republic to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government”, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. ( The box “Let’s Work Now! ”) ) The Presidium of the Saeima shall propose that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Procedure for the Entry into Force of the Law on Society and Foundations of the Saeima” be submitted to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “European Economic Area Financial Mechanism and Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021 Management Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the responsible commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. On the granting of leave. ( Internouncing call.) This article is intended to record any revenue arising from the exercise of rights in connection with a guarantee under Article 01 03 03 of the statement of expenditure in Section III ‘Commission’ provided that this revenue has not been deducted from The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Arvīds Platoper, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 8 February of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” to be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to review the draft law drawn up by the Commission “Amendments to the Law on Procedure of Entry into Force of the Law on Associations and Foundations” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board On the agenda - request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Jeļenas Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden about the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question No.369/J12 and compliance of the Ministry's actions with regulatory requirements and public interests when exercising control of the start of electricity generation in cogeneration. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U18	Good morning, colleagues! The Commission continues to refer to requests addressed to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That request has been examined and rejected by a majority.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U19	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U20	Hello, colleagues! We dealt with another request from the Ministry of Economic Affairs concerning the OIC case. I would like to point out that the report... The Panel's opinion contained a general error. The request showed these irregularities and non-conformities. That's what we're going to talk about today? The request was for one specific aspect of the OIC Aperture, without which this OIC Aperture, which we have seen on television, would not have been possible. Until the request, we came because the Minister for Economics simply avoided providing answers on the substance of the questions that were submitted to him. He also avoided making written replies at the Panel’s meeting. And the reason is very simple - why avoided. That is, our questioning strategy for the Ministry is as follows. Knowing that it is an afer, knowing specifically how it happened, we allowed the Minister of Economics to show it and start fighting this afer. He had a choice - either really, really, to start fighting against it or to continue to cover it. If he chose to cover this area, it means that we prepared every other clarification question for every subsequent answer to his avoidable one. And so we continued several times until we got to the point that the Ministry of Economics was no longer able to escape its lies and misleading information and therefore refused to respond at all. When the request was made, they refused to provide written replies, contrary to the request that these replies be made in writing. And why refused to submit in writing? Because they knew everything they'd write would be like a Hollywood criminal: every word could be used against them. They are very aware of this, and so they do not. At the demand committee meeting, we talked about one particular aspect of the atmosphere, that is, the way in which it is determined whether or not a station has started production. This is a matter of principle. Why is the whole game going on around it? The game around it happens for the following reason. When these generous permits were issued, there was one important condition: you will receive this generous state aid only on condition that you start production in cogeneration within a given period. So if you have not started production in cogeneration within this time limit, you lose this authorisation. What does it mean to start production in cogeneration? To start production in cogeneration means to produce both electricity and heat at the same time. And what we saw right away (even for journalists it was clear. Even for journalists who have nothing to do with this case, it was clear at once that no one is testing the heat. What did the Ministry of Economics do as soon as this fraud was discovered? They said it was obvious - it was fraud! And the blame is the “Salile Network”! What is to be blamed for?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's because it didn't check the heat?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Any man who doesn't even have a connection with these things would be strange. In what context should the ‘Distributive grid’, which is an electricity company, examine the business with which it has no obligation? In fact, what the Ministry of Economics has tried to say with his statements can be compared with the prosecution of a proctologist that he has not verified that there are no holes in his teeth. For, behold, he's already there through those holes, and he's had to go through his mouth. If he hasn't done that, it's the proctologist's fault. It was completely absurd! In order to show this absurdity, we prepared questions for the Ministry of Economics so that it gave us a legislative basis for documents, which attests its absurd statements. The Ministry of Economy referred to the provisions of the SPRK. The provisions of the SPRK have proved to be, but cannot be justified. Because, look, these provisions of the SPRK are not laid down at all... they have nothing to do with the supervision of OIC producers at all. They have a completely different delegation, a completely different task, namely not to control the OIC manufacturer, but rather to control the ‘Distributive network’, the system operator, so that it connects to its networks in a non-discriminatory way and that this connection is secure for the system. These are two things. And within this competence, it also carried out its own inspection - it checked that the station met the requirements of the system or did not meet the requirements. It has nothing to do with heat. This was also clearly pointed out by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who is the author of those provisions, namely that those provisions have nothing to do with it. In parallel, what does the Ministry of Economics do? The Ministry says: “Well? But there must be more such documents and such documents." It was clearly pointed out by the SPRK that this annex, which must be submitted, contained these documents... That's just a businessman... ‘Distribution network’ shall in this case submit the documents in that Annex... which is attached there. If added, they shall be submitted; if not added, they shall not be submitted. And now, when we analyse all these fraud schemes, we see that, in all these cases, the businessman did not add anything honestly to the fact that this building would be put into operation, that there would be heat tested. Even more - in the documents submitted by the Ministry of Economics, he has rightly indicated that he does not produce heat, he does not produce electricity. Next, it was the Ministry of Economics, which had submitted these “Salais tīkls”... the documents submitted to it... A careful look at them, as shown by the fact that it is all right. Then the question arises: who is engaged in fraud in this situation? Was it a clear incompetentness of the Ministry of Economics or a deliberate attempt to cover these fraud schemes? That was one of the things we discussed in this request, and the Ministry of Economics had to finally acknowledge - Mr Brigmanis, contrary to what you said! - that there are really problems here and that is not what is being done here. One point. Two points. Then we asked the Ministry of Economics, since it had recognised it itself, “So what is it? Who is responsible for this?’ The Ministry of Economics... So... Imagine! We have parliamentary democracy, our country is a democratic republic. In a democratic republic, executive permissions to tell the highest decision-making power that simply won't say this information! Excuse me, what kind of country do we then live in? You forgot? You just spoke beautifully here from the triple room - Latvia, democracy... Then it would be necessary to remember what is written there on the wall - that in Latvia the power belongs to the nation. In this case, it is paradoxical that it was like a normal fact at the meeting of the Request Commission - we accept that the Minister does not want to say. Moreover, there was no minister at all! It's also paradoxical. The Minister did not provide any answers at all and sent some officials to his place. And it seemed normal for the Request Commission! We listen to this and assume that these officials who have been sent are also those who express the will of the Minister, even though the Minister has not said anything at all... There's nothing... We have no evidence of this. So no information was provided about these people. What did the Ministry of Economics do? It lied again. And so he didn't submit it in writing. He said: “You know, we have an audit. We will now assess all this and, within the framework of this audit, we will find out who is responsible.” I met this audit mission. This audit task is very different. So exactly what we asked for - we asked for two things. First. Who is responsible for setting up such a system? For the fact that this system was actually designed so that this control does not actually take place? Point number one. And the other. Who is responsible for the fact that all these years all this was covered? Please specify these officials. This was to be done in elementary terms by the Ministry of Economics. But the Ministry didn't do it, hid it. The question is, why? She lied to the Panel for this audit. We looked at this audit as quite other things. It's about the time... specific decisions taken and not related at all. They relate to authorisation rather than to this control process. There was a lie again! And as a result, colleagues, as you wanted us to do everything orally, we will now have to make another request if we do not want to, and look again at these unanswered or falsely answered questions. The next thing I want to say. If this continues, it will indeed be necessary to listen to Mr Brigmanis's suggestion that the Request Commission should perhaps no longer look at these issues, but look at other competent authorities. But before this happens and this situation really goes so far, however, we would like to give the Ministry of Economics the opportunity to come back and prove it in good faith - but start showing it! - that it wants to expose this area, wants to work in the public interest, not to continue to cover these illegal schemes that create thousands of... millions of losses and perhaps a tambočka are more complete. I therefore call for support for this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U21	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U22	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Mr. Curry! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zarins spoke about the responsibility of such essential things as officials. And, of course, throughout this story of cogeneration - this demand is about cogeneration - there are also a lot of questions concerning the responsibility of officials. I will tell you very briefly about the members of a municipality who in 2011, in the opinion of the State Audit Office, did not take a very economic decision... Seven years have passed. Worked with the Prosecutor's Office, the State Audit Office worked. The process was driven once - it was rejected. It's the second time... In a word, in the end, all this went to the court, and at best, every member of this municipality will get about 700 or 800 euros. And then the question arises: are these seven eight years and these resources used to investigate the case - the work of the prosecutor's office, the work of the State Audit Office, now also the work of judges... in the end, will we at least get salaries for these civil servants? In this case, as I understand it, there are already millions and even more amounts. And the question is: do we really believe that officials in this case do not have to answer for the entire cogeneration system? And we can just do that, quietly... As we can see, at the moment, only the opposition is speaking; the coalition Members are not even trying to explain, respond. Neither is the Minister here today... All right. The Commission also did not receive any requests for this request. Of course, you can understand that... In fact, it seems that there are so many questions, so many demands... I allow you, ladies and gentlemen, to find it difficult to trace what points Mr Zarins is coming to talk about. Of course, you can say to a group that they're trying to tighten the colors, that maybe the SAICA, or the former “Centre of Reconciliation”, which some people still call “the center of sabotage”, is an important principle: the worse the country is, the better. However, in my opinion, it is true that in this case, if not the responsibility of the officials, then at least the answers should come. At present, we cannot receive answers to these many questions - not the opposition Members, nor you, ladies and gentlemen, the coalition Members. At least I understand... Maybe you have some information, you're just hiding it? Here we go! And I have heard about this production in cogeneration and the entire system of it myself, several stories from businessmen who have experienced the introduction of a diesel generator or some other installation and who have some electricity of small power at that time. The relevant authority comes here, finds that some electricity is actually being produced - and it's all right. In my opinion, we must not treat this issue so lightly. All the more! As far as I can see, tomorrow, the Baltic Assembly will also hold a debate on the common Baltic market for renewable energy. As far as I am concerned, this will be the first discussion that one country's entrepreneurs will be able to participate in renewable energy production in the territory of another country. As far as I understand, Lithuanians are already in this regard in our practical activities - not on paper, but on practical activities! - are in front of both wind parks and solar panels. And then I have the question: if we get to the Baltic common market, the common energy market, also in terms of renewable energy, will we really be ready? If we invite someone to visit, first of all, I think you have to arrange your own house. In this case, we need to put this system in order, and we need to be clear about what has really happened at the beginning of cogeneration. Mr Baloža will be speaking right away (at least wanted to speak) about whether the Request Commission still has any point. Then I will answer now: see that the members of the opposition have also been so active (as I understand it will continue to be), the public learns about many things, and we hear those questions and recommendations to the members of the coalition so that you, fellow Members, can find answers to these important questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U23	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission? None. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jeļena Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons' request to the Minister of Economics Arvils Aseradens about the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question No.369/J12 and compliance of the Ministry's actions with regulatory requirements and public interests in implementing control of the start-up of electricity generation in cogeneration! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 36, refraining - 11. The request is rejected. On the agenda - request of Members Ivars Zariņa, Jeļenas Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden "On replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question No.372/J12 and interpretation of the norms of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 221 to the meaning and purpose of the legislative act". Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U24	Colleagues! We also looked at this request. I would like to draw such a general conclusion on the work of our committee. It has to be said that applicants were advised to write an application if they had information that would be important for law enforcement institutions (I mean prosecutor's office, KNAB, State Audit Office). It is their duty, as Members, to share this information and, therefore, to send it to these relevant institutions. I can say with full responsibility that the Petitions Commission is ready to submit, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima, audio recordings and minutes of these sittings as separate documents if the relevant institutions start to take an interest in this matter. But now it must be made clear, colleagues, that the Request Commission cannot be an investigating body. And I have to say that I have heard a hopeful note from Mr. Zarins that he has the opportunity to turn... to create other forms of looking at and investigating these issues, which I think are really very topical and essential for society. There must be clarity! And I agree that in many cases we have not received definitive answers from this committee. Of course, it is also necessary to take into account the fact that these issues will continue to be dealt with in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. A working group on these issues has been set up. The demand commission has already talked about what the composition of this group is, what particular people... But, you know, this is a work process where, for some reasons, these names are currently not publicly available. Since I respect the applicants with the greatest respect and urge them not to hold a candle under the head if they have relevant information at their disposal (I think they obviously have such requests), and to pass this information on to the organisations listed in my view that the laws of our country will be respected and that there will be order. However, this request was examined and rejected by a majority.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U25	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U26	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, This vote, of course, shows - and also the vote on the previous request - that there is a very strict distribution within the Commission: the opposition and the position. And in this case, when it comes to cogeneration, Mr. Zarins shows amazing perseverance, such ardent conviction. And, you know, I also started to believe that there's something wrong there, that there's something stolen there, and there's a lot. I think that for other colleagues too, it is, and also for positions, uncomfortable to always vote 'no', rejecting the demands made by the opposition. Mr Brigmann, that story is not concrete at this vote. I think you are absolutely right in what you have said. This story, however, is about the fact that demand does not work as an institute. I had spoken about the fact that we would prepare, and the corresponding amendments were also made to delete, so to speak, the Request Commission. But the opposition was not united in its thoughts, the Association of the Regions of Latvia as a very intelligent, pragmatic organisation still thinks, obviously also in working groups about the further development of parliamentary control... It should be noted that parliamentary control is not just a request. These are also issues, parliamentary committees of inquiry and approval of the budget. As parliamentary control of the opposition is taking place in the discharge, I do not need to speak. Kalnozole is asleep, even in position. The others simply press automatically “ against” and “for”. Sometimes colleagues get tired. No wonder, isn't it? There is no discussion there. If we are talking about a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Well, I wouldn't just say that it is the opposition institution. By the way, the opposition institution is in Latvia and Germany, from which we have taken over this practice. In other countries, listen, in other countries, parliamentary investigations are carried out by a majority of Parliament. With us - the minority is encouraging and the majority has nothing to say - it can only choose the head of the commission to be able to swallow. For example, Lāčplēsis successfully retorted the parliamentary investigation commission about “Latvijas Krajbanka”. I will abstain on the latter, I do not want to speak on the latter. It was sad. But if we are talking about parliamentary investigations, then a majority in Parliament can always try to use this investigating institute for its own benefit. In Latvia, in the last two years, the opposition is always “in favour of” the request, the position is always rejected. There's something wrong. We can say that we will transform matters. Now it's funny. All the time, now that he is sitting, he raises questions that he does not answer. Now, I understand, there will be a demand. The claims are also rejected. Questions again. But no one answers those questions at all. Ministers are being guarded. Mr. Brigmann, on the Request Commission, he is protecting them as such a father for his children... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “How silver... protect your children as your mother!” ) I am prevented from speaking right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U27	Intersects on the parliamentary order roll are allowed. Do nothing, Mr Baloža, continue the debate. ( Merry laughter.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U28	But if we're talking, let's say... in this case, I think we need to think about these questions... at least so that the Minister comes to answer to them. For a year, the order roll team of the Saeima worked under the leadership of Solvita Āboltiņa. They're no longer among us. She is, but she is no longer in our midst, and the result of the task force, I think, was also thrown into the paper basket. And that's not right. So that in this case I would appeal to Mr. Brigmanis's conscience, which is a professional politician for a long time to at least look at... Well, look at it! Now, what is it difficult for you to let one request go here so that the minister at least looks after the tried to see that he answers the questions?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Because there's very little nuance there. If we represent democracy, then we can also see democracy for moments. But if we are brutally, rudely, in the Soviet-style, we have all the hand of hand, then, after all, there is no democratic image. This is a rejection at one of the gates and we cannot develop in this way. I would, therefore, ask colleagues, at least in the Commission of Petitions, sometimes to launch a question to this troupe, and the ministers should, however, also answer the questions. This, I will remind you, is not only an instrument of opposition, but also an instrument of position. It is simply neglected with us, in this way, we are simply devoting democratic power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U29	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U30	For those who also start to believe that something is not right here, I will continue. So the last demand was about what? The previous demand was for one specific and important aspect of the afer, i.e. that the cogeneration unit does not actually produce, but that it can be demonstrated by paper that it is producing. It is analogous to home-ship story: everyone sees that there is a house standing there, but by documents it is a ship. And a similar, but even more craftsmanship was carried out by the Ministry of Economics: there is a green meadow - there is nothing there, but there is, by documents, an operating cogeneration station. Please! There, documents! Why was this exercise important? This exercise was important, look at what! Since in 2012, the so-called full moratorium on OICs and no more permits could be issued, no more decisions could be taken on these permits, but such permits were issued very much (in addition, very much in places where it is simply unrealistic to put such stations where they are not needed), the problem arose: how to help these people, who had selfless authorisation from the Ministry of Economics? As no more favourable decisions were made to them, even if the Ministry of Economics wanted to, it could not take because the rules had been amended accordingly. And then a lawyer - apparently it was a lawyer who did not understand anything from the energy, but could have a great “work” with legal norms - thought up this scheme, how to make a cogeneration station as if it started to work, even though it didn't work at all, just a container had to be put on, and then it's going to be all right. But there was a problem. When it was done... It was important for the businessman that he should not lose this fat pie that he was given, that is, this permit in connection with a specific purchase of electricity; then it was important for him that this permit... so that the period of ten years does not begin to run or enter into this mandatory procurement period. Because if it was at the moment when nothing was put there, he just wasted time and could not earn that money. And that is why there is this second demand today; there we are looking at the second important aspect of the area - in what way the Ministry of Economics has achieved that, as if this cogeneration plant had been transferred and worked, but at the same time it does not qualify, it has not yet started to make this mandatory procurement. And for the Ministry of Economics, we... Again, a lengthy question-and-question procedure was carried out, during which the Ministry would congregate in its claims. And then that's the last one. What was this request about? We asked from the Ministry of Economics one very specific thing. If power generation started before July 1, 2017 (in principle, it is the term in which almost all these container stations started their operation), then... You claim that this time limit for procurement, a 10-year mandatory procurement, is fixed from the date on which the electricity production started. So, even if the manufacturer has not concluded a contract with the trader and does not sell electricity in the framework of compulsory procurement. We simply asked the Ministry of Economics a timid question: “Please tell me how it really is! Because we have just heard how it is started." What did the Ministry of Economics tell us? The Ministry claimed with foam on the lips that, you see, merchants who have installed these containers... that it's even very good, because they're in this way... this time is already running for them, they lose their compulsory procurement. But when we started to watch, it turned out that no contracts had been concluded. So this means that these deadlines do not go away. The Ministry of Economics claims that it's getting away. Then we prayed to her: “Please submit! You can prove that this is indeed the case!” What did the Ministry of Economics do? Of course, the Ministry did not submit anything in writing to respond to the request. But it was very amusing that an official of the Ministry of Economics was sitting because the minister, of course, had not arrived... The Minister had nothing at all, there were some officials who, to say, were planted before the heat of the discussion, that they would be like three men on a boat... That this brave creature is a horse. That now it will be the Minister's opinion that will be expressed. The official sat down, and he was given a specific opinion on the page. There were a lot of technical matters there, and it was clear why he was doing it in this way. In particular, the calculation of the Ministry of Economics was very simple: they would provide the piles with complex, technical, confounded information and the applicants would simply not have sufficient patience or competence to handle all this information. Unfortunately, it happened that... Well, I like it for someone, or I don't like it, but the demand committee's sittings are recorded. We took that vernacular and went through the points of everything they said. Today I will not begin to tell you here, in the sitting of the Saeima, about the absurdities that have been negotiated there; we will simply be forced to prepare, as colleagues wish, a new request so that this oral debate can be continued once again, while the Minister of Economics will provide clear written answers and confirm that this is the current fraud scheme of the Ministry of Economics. I mean, how did it work? What did the Ministry of Economics do? In order to demonstrate that the scheme was in operation, the Ministry referred to norms which only entered into force after that date. These provisions indeed provide for amendments which the Ministry of Economics is referring to, that this period of procurement begins to run, regardless of whether the economic operator has concluded the contract or has not concluded the contract. But we are already talking about the stations that have done so by this deadline. This does not apply to these plants until that date. Better still! When we started to analyse what the Ministry of Economics really said then, it turned out - the Ministry says that the norms to which it refers are very specific in the two things that have to be executed: one is the act of the “Salile network” and the other is the act of putting into service. The Ministry of Economics! If you now claim that this is so, show me from these container schemes, which you have approved, even one that would have submitted to you an act of putting into service. Nobody! This, according to your statement, means that they all had to withdraw authorisations, they had to cancel them. But you have done exactly the opposite. Then in what case do you lie, and in what case do you violate the law? Now you can only have these two versions, talking about mandatory procurement container schemes! Go on. The Ministry of Economics was asked to tell us what it really means to start producing electricity because it was their claim. In order for you to understand how absurd it was at the commission meeting, I will read to you what the Ministry of Economics has answered this simple question, which should be answered in simple, understandable words. So what does it mean to start producing electricity? Answer: “The economic operator who has received the electricity mandatory procurement right must ensure compliance of the cogeneration power plant with the definition of the cogeneration power plant set out in Sub-paragraph 2.1 of MK Regulation No 221. The term “start of electricity generation” refers to the start of electricity generation in a cogeneration power plant put into operation in accordance with the laws and regulations and complying with the criteria set out in Regulation No 221 of the MK and may meet the efficiency criteria of the cogeneration plant.” Now, you colleagues from the Committee on Petitions, tell me: who understood this answer from the Ministry of Economics? Because, as I understand you will be voting on it right away, you will be voting on it. I understood this answer very well, I know what is written there. In principle, they have said that they have always begged and cheated, that they have deliberately violated the law in all the container schemes that they have made. It is a direct accusation that the Ministry of Economics has made to itself! At the Commission meeting, we asked for clarification. In particular, I would ask for this definition to be clarified. I asked: “How is it really that the heat was to be produced or not to be produced? Was the heat needed to be useful or not to be useful? Did this station have to work with proper efficiency or did it not have to work?’ The Ministry of Economics confirmed, and that is in the protocol, it is inside the verbatim report: “Yes, all this should have been.” Well, colleagues, if that was all supposed to be the case, then tell me, show me at least one of these stations, which is now also the Ministry of Economics... 39 stations which they check and which they hide and do not say what they check there, what they check and how they check and whether these conditions are fulfilled. Here, too, is the answer why all this is hidden! This is simply another proof that it is a politically covered sphere that will continue so that someone can earn millions and millions at our expense. As the Request Commission wanted, we will continue this oral... if they like such a format. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Economics has not submitted the answers in good time and we have only now been able to analyse them, and how do you, colleagues from the Commission on Requests, understand that we will make the next request and sit together again in a friendly manner, and we will speak as productively at the meeting of the Commission on Requests, ask the Ministry on Economics to tell and explain its actions and its justification. Because, as can be seen from the previous meeting of the Committee on Petitions, the Ministry of Economics is either absolutely not competent in this field and does not understand at all what is happening there or has deliberately, purposefully, always pursued activities that are not in the interest of the State or society and are not in line with the regulatory framework, its purpose... not only for its purpose and purpose, but often also for the standards set by the Ministry itself. Mr Brigmann, I fully agree with you that this is not only a question of the competence of the Commission on Petitions. And I will listen to your call and, of course, I will take further action because, as I understand it, all of us are interested in the truth. — Dep. J. Adamson: “Not everyone!” ) and we want this process to be carried out with appropriate expertise. We'll make this happen, no matter what it's like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U31	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U32	I thank Mr Zarins for his next request. And I will remind you here that Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources was passed on to the Saeima, where it was adopted by the adoption of the Latvian National Development Plan 2014-2020. Therefore, it would be unnecessary to talk here only about the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But what do I want to talk about here? I would like to say, first of all, that this renewable energy policy started in 2009 (see yourself, who was the Minister of Economics at that time!) , and this saga has continued. I think most of my colleagues will agree that we want to know what is happening. And within the Panel, we have seen it all on the one hand and on the other hand under the chairmanship of the Commission. And so I do not agree here that there is a lack of democratic debate, because, as Mr Brigmann said, we know very clearly that there is now an internal inspection at the Ministry of Economics. An appropriate investigation has also been launched at the Public Prosecutor's Office. So that we cannot really know the things that are currently being carried out in this restaurant during the internal check. Second. We are talking about the fact that there is no minister for the economy here, but two weeks ago, when the minister for the economy was here in the Saeima, the Minister was here to speak, unfortunately, because of the withdrawal of the foreign policy debate, the Minister was no longer here. We were stuck, so to speak, in long discussions. And finally. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Deliver the mandate finally!” ) When it comes to dealing with these issues in the Committee on Petitions, it should be borne in mind that Article 119 of the parliamentary roll states very clearly that no less than five Members may submit a written question to the Prime Minister or Ministers on matters within the competence of these officials. Moreover, Mr Zarins, I have already reminded you in two sittings that the question must be formulated in such a way that it can be answered briefly and specifically. And it is not acceptable to include an assessment in the question. So, in this case, you once again take time, because the assessment is included in at least two thirds of your questions. So, in short and concrete terms, you save time for us as well as for other colleagues. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U33	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U34	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! I would remind all those who have a short social memory: the previous speaker owes the country EUR 14 000 for not submitting the report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. The Saeima voted that Veiko Spolitis must return 14 thousand euros to the state...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U35	Mr. Neighbours! On the request. Please talk about the request.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U36	In this case, when it comes to this request, Mrs Mūrniece...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U37	On the request, Mr. Neighbours!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U38	Then you will talk about that request or am I going to talk? ( Independence: “Do not talk to the chairman of the sitting! ” ) So - on this request. I have said several times at all about the Request Commission as a buffer committee - as one that protects ministers and any ministry so that no question can be asked to them. But the previous speaker, who is a representative of the coalition... You know, the country must set an example. The country must start with itself. And you can't be a man who owes... The Saeima's decision! You have voted that he has to repay EUR 14 000. He can't come here and teach us something else! That must not be the case! That must be understood by the public and by you Members! That must not happen! In this case, I have a second case about this request...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U39	Mr President, come back to the debate on the request. Be so kind!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U40	Just as I cross, so you don't let me go. ( Interface: “There is no story about Spolīti! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U41	On the request!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U42	So, speaking about this request, I also told the whole thing with the rude drunkard Spolite and 14 thousand euros. The other thing is that this commission... Now I repeat: Mr Brigmanis, you are the head of that commission, you have a supplement at your salary - EUR 800. Riena has already left, she has a supplement as your deputy - 300 euros. Then there are those girls who help you prepare for this commission. Why spend that money on that commission? This is a waste of taxpayers' money. In principle, another version of The Spolish. You don't want to. That is why I do not understand at all how the very first line can not be understood: "A request for replies from the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question." That's it. Point. We don't read it again. Members, elected, legitimate representatives of the people, ask their ministers something, which are also elected from among these same Members. Mostly. Then why all the time... Why are 25 rejections already in this term? 25! August Brigman, I understand what this commission needs! Annie Matīss answered me. But it has always been so, and it will be so. Then we don't spend that money and close it, August! You got enough money, I know. Let's close that commission! We don't spend that money on unnecessary things, but also on the other Members who take part... Also for a person who owes EUR 14 000 to the country. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Nemo! Let's go to the commission! Commission on Mandates and Ethics!’ ) He will have more free time, more free time, so that he can, let us say, open the money. Let's not waste each other's time. So in this case, I believe that the request should have been accepted. Of course, Zarin will write again. What else can he do? That is my view of this request. Mrs Mourniece, thank you for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U43	I call for a real debate on the agenda. Mr. Cilevič, will it be enough for you to have a debate of 10 minutes? Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U44	Yeah, thank you. Dear colleagues, Members, first of all, from Unity, but also from other parties, are constantly calling on us to fight cruelly against the extortion of the state, against the seizure of the state, and against possible corruption. This is precisely the case where there are justified concerns that it is being squandered and possibly also corruption that is taking place. I will not repeat everything my colleague Zarins has already said. But I think the arguments are quite convincing. We don't call anyone a criminal. The only thing we want the Saeima to be able to find out about this situation, but you refuse to do so. Why? I compare your rhetoric and your behaviour with what you were doing and what you were talking about when we were just talking about “Rīdzene” conversations. You were very brave in the fight against past crimes. Why are you not as brave as to fight against the possible violations that are taking place today? No, here we will rely on officials, on the same officials on whom there is a reasonable suspicion that they have participated in these abuses. No, that's not what we're gonna do. Why? I have the only version. Because the Minister for Economics belongs to your party at the moment. So other former Heads of State can and should be investigated, but your Minister for Economic Affairs cannot be bothered. I'm sorry, what do you call, honourable colleagues? Mr. Spolish! I think there's a real way you can fight it. I believe you want to fight, and I even know how you do it. I think that in about six and eight years' time, a parliamentary committee of inquiry will be set up in the Saeima, which will work hard to investigate this OIC sphere. Perhaps then you will come to some conclusion. No, not you. For Asheraden will no longer be a minister; he will be a respected businessman, who will know all the world. And there will be no unity, there will be another party in which the same people will sit - you are still quite young. You'll still be able to throw your fur, and maybe not once. And then you will desperately fight against it, and in the next pre-election campaign you will come again with slogans against the grabbing of the state and so on. But, colleagues, do you really think that people are so silly and do not see how you want to fight, and what are you doing in practice? Colleagues, in fact I cannot disagree with Mr Baloža. You completely take away any meaning from the Request Commission as such. You are actually reducing the role of Parliament to an absolute minimum to zero. Yeah, yeah, let's wait for the officials to say. So why do we need that parliamentary order? Because everything is decided by the Coalition Cooperation Council, and we Members do not have the right to get to the truth, we do not have the right to listen to ministers. After that, do you really want people to respect Parliament?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then you wonder why the Parliament's reputation is so low and ratings such land! Well, be at least consistent! Maybe let us really cancel that Request Commission so that everyone can be clear about who is in the country - another minister and his officials! And we are such submissive servants to this minister. Well, let's write the law that way! It will be at least honest, and we will not deceive ourselves or voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U45	Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U46	Thank you. If I were in Asheraden's place, I would find some gap in the Saeima's order line or ask my colleagues to arrange some way to come here to tell them about these things (Interview.) Because now it looks like he's afraid. You, the coalition, have nothing to say, but you know that they stole it, they wasted it, and you are now defending it. A colleague in front of Abu Meri has three beautiful leaves - green, white, red. Come on, fuck you! You said today that all of us, to say so, must live and go to a legal, national state. Now this time, try something to brighten up the injustices that occur in Asheraden's cantory! Because it's all moving... I'll tell you where to. Of course, Zarins' perseverance, as I said today, is amazing. I understand that he uses an old psychological method called the ‘breaked plate principle’ - many times repeated. It's actually avalanche. Listen, to be honest, lose sight of how pathetic a position, coalition, protects everything here, and how desperate you have tried to do your job, regardless of the wishes of your colleagues. Make the investigation commission! I cannot be in that committee of inquiry, and a further 10 percent cannot be there, because we are independent Members. Unlike others who are dependent and are in political groups and so on, we are independent. We can't go in there, it's denied by law. But now you're making that investigation commission up and finally discovering... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Appeals Commission, hiding such issues in this way in the run-up to the elections, is making them worse. Try to do something different once! And I think Mr Brigmanis will still be able to be a responsible politician and support any request, and he will end up hiding his colleagues from the Ministry of Economics, from the Party's Unity. I understand that the hand washes, but the smell that comes from the Ministry of Economics becomes intolerant. In my former role as the Zolitude tragedy investigation commission, I think it is some fatal coincidence that it was there - in the Ministry of Economics - that the building control authority was dissolved; that Pavlut, Puce and more, let's say, Dombrovskis, who was operating there... Well, it's just a coincidence. But now it's a regularity. Why is it about the Ministry of Economic Affairs? Colleagues, I call for you to do something different once. Now it will be amazing when we look at how Mr Asheraden will bring all the truth about these things. And it will be the best work that the Ministry of Economics will be able to do - not to point out there that for 100 years Latvia, but for a centenary to simply discover irregularities. Let's go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U47	Mr. Adamson, would it be enough for you to have a three-minute debate? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Sorry not!” ) So no. Okay. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! Name of the Secretary of the Saeima for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U48	Currently not registered: Inesis Boķis, Ints Dālderis, Raivis Dzintars, Andrejs Judins, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Arvīds Platopers, Artis Rasmanis, Kārlis Sergeants, Jūlija Stepanenko and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U49	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U50	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - request of Members Ivars Zariņa, Jeļenas Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden "On replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question No.372/J12 and interpretation of the norms of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 221 to the meaning and purpose of the legislative act". We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U51	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Dear representatives of the coalition. The heirs of the Oligarchs - without property indeed! So we have to talk about the slaves. Why did I start talking in this way, and why were the heirs of the oligarchs? Because what concerns the demand system - the way it was created today - was created by no one else than the former Prime Minister Andris Šķele, because he did not like to join Members and answer questions and requests. And this policy is also being successfully implemented through the Coalition Cooperation Council and the Coalition Treaties. It would be logical if you had written in the coalition agreement that the demission of ministers was not being supported. What does it mean? I explain to those who don't understand. The request is to provide answers on the substance of the questions asked. If you carefully read the Rules of Procedure reel, the request for deletion does not automatically follow. It is an opportunity for the minister concerned to give answers to the questions asked by Members, both to respond to Members and to raise public concerns about one or the other event. Unfortunately, we do not have such openness. Member Balodis mentioned here that we live in a parliamentary democracy. We do not live in a parliamentary democracy, unfortunately! We have a Coalition Cooperation Council whose decisions are mandatory for all coalition partners, whatever you think and whatever you do, because otherwise you cannot vote at all. Now on the specific request and in general on the system as it is. You know, it was rather regrettable to see the Request Commission, as the Minister tried to answer or, more precisely, not answer the questions asked. Yesterday I was forced to recommend to the Minister of Economics (in the context of the amendments adopted today in the Education Law) that the Latvian language course be followed by the Minister of Education and Science, Mr Šadurska, because the answers given by the officials of the Ministry of Economics and thus the Minister of Economics themselves, because he signs these answers, show that there are two options: either these people do not understand the questions, so they do not understand the Latvian language (the quality of education must be discussed!) Or they're covering an afer. I want you to tell me the third option you could still have. It’s funny to listen when the officials of the Ministry of Economics say, “You know, we have set up a task force, a control group!” But when are the specific questions: “What is the composition? Who is responsible for what? Who made what decisions?’ Then the answer is, “No! All this is secret to us!” Let us talk about secrecy a little when we come to other questions. You know, there's such a strange impression. If we do not answer the questions asked, we are telling the public that there are indeed huge afexes, in this case, in the OIC area. What can we do next? You can go on the same thing. Just... They're going to stay... Many will also be separated from the Member's mandate. I ask you, however, to think about how we are working here at all and how we defend our interests, and more often to meet the voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U52	Name to Member Augustis Brigman.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U53	Dear colleagues, I will now speak as a Member, not as the Chairman of the Request Commission. We have two very good documents - the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia and the roll of order of the Saeima - with which we can solve these problems very well, which previous colleagues mentioned when talking about the work of the Request Commission. And so it is absolutely not that we hold our hands to this commission as such, and I can tell Artus Village here - there are many different ways in which we can improve the handling of Members' requests. All the more so if demand affects a particular sphere... If these are economic issues, then we could address the specific request to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. If it concerns legal issues, we could address it to the Legal Commission. So we could move very smoothly. The existing Request Commission, as they say, should be eliminated. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Yes!” ) Mr. Neighbours said: very good money would then be released. Just give him the information... I myself do not receive a premium for the office of Chairman of the Request Commission from the previous year, because I think it would simply be wrong for me, as Chairman of a political group. But there are, of course, other posts - there is a secretary, there is a member of the chairman, there are consultants. And so I have never thought that the Request Commission is some kind of private cantor, as Mr. Baloži says here: “The Brigman Commission”, “The Brigman Message”. The request commission shall consist of several Members. I would advise my colleague Balodis to read how commissions are formed, how many people there, how many people there, if you don't know, the Member... and they all decide and decide on a specific decision together. It's not Brigman who makes a decision there. So I see one major problem here. Just some of our colleagues... There is such a good saying in Russian, and I will not say anything that interferes. — Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Speak, say!” ), as they say, to do all this. I remember last time Mr. Kaimina initiated the liquidation of such a commission. He didn't support it. He didn't get it. Obviously, there is a lack of a troupe, where you go and populist talk, to be aware of all kinds of dangers, of all kinds of disasters that exist in the country. But I am now really turning to the opposition, because that would be the best. Come on! Collect and sign a document on the removal of this commission! I will support it! Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “There will be! In 10 minutes!’ ) On the other hand, you can see that the opposition will disappear, where it goes and these fairy tales tell us that something is covered, something is guilty of something. Come on, show me your courage! I want to see if you will. This would be an important contribution to the state budget, because this money will not be distributed to the Saeima Members, it will be paid into the state budget, although perhaps it is small. And to Mr. Neighbouring, I ask from this troupe, as I say, to follow this action and to be the initiator. Let's go! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Thanks, August! Thank you. Very good!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U54	The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U55	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Fact 1: In 2017, the Ministry of Economics has revoked the licences of 19 OIK beneficiaries. Fact 2: At present, and until the end of February, 39 stations and OIC beneficiaries will be evaluated. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “No 400!” ) Fact 3. Arvil Asheraden is the first minister who has begun the war.Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ) against abnormally high electricity costs and the fight against OIC schemes and their beneficiaries. And that is probably also why this issue is being bombed for a week from the start of the week and is on our agenda. For quite simply, if you can't influence the decisions made by the Ministry, it is most likely that they can be braked. We all, colleagues, know the constructive ways in which Parliament operates, which we are used to using in commissions. We invite the Minister, listen, give the task, give the time. Month, week, two weeks. We expect answers, we expect results. This one, colleagues, is a spam. This is a deliberate delay in the work of the state apparatus, employing it with paper works, to distance the decision-making process or to remove the minister before it has taken an unpleasant decision. And a week from week to week make us, the Saeima... make the norms contained in the Saeima's Rules of Procedure roll absurd. I therefore call on colleagues to be constructive. There is no problem for the Ministry of Economics to come to account once a month for processes, to give interim reports on what is being withdrawn, for whom and for what. But such a parliament consciously hinders the ministry’s efforts to sort out the sector, giving a lot of writings a week from week to week. Already at the end of February, the Ministry will complete its assessment of 39 stations and review of their licences. I can't be happy. Many will be taken away. Therefore, let the Ministry of Economics work, let it continue to fight against OIC schemes and their millions of beneficiaries, and let it provide lower electricity tariffs for all of us, not slow down this process by submitting a request and requesting urgent responses, thus hindering the work of the Ministry of Economics. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Who did not allow himself to be looked after before?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ I invite you to reject the request. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U56	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U57	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! You see, many years ago, when the evil oligarchs were ruled by, a very interesting scheme called "support for renewable energy" was invented. And under these renewable energies, high-efficiency cogeneration of gas, which in fact meant that the whole of this mechanism was to a much greater extent in favour of gas and fossil fuels than renewable energy. And even now, most of the OIC goes to support gas. This will also hinder the future transition to renewable energy, as these gas cogeneration plants are new and modern and, of course, old plants are always easier to switch to renewable resources than new ones. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the title refers to renewable energy sources, which created a general dislike for renewable energy sources as such in society. But also in the part that really affects renewable energy, it was not all right. The aid was intended for biomass plants operating in the middle of the field with maize without waste, without using the heat produced. Such support for renewable energy was also actually unnecessary and acted contrary to environmental objectives. Even when it comes to supporting biomass plants... and this could be the part that is much less useful from the whole process... However, for small biomass cogeneration plants with a heat capacity of some megawatts... In fact, electricity capacity is so small there that these electricity costs are disproportionately expensive, and perhaps completely enough with electricity, heat... with these biomass heat plants. Similarly, plants where biomass cogeneration would indeed have been justified have been built too large in some cases, given the generous support, which means that biomass resources are unreasonably used, all heat is not used, and the plants even operate in condensation or clean electricity generation mode at times. This is not right again and, once the aid for electricity production has been completed, these stations may face problems. And the people will also be in trouble, because they will then have to pay more than the heat. As the OIC gradually accumulates, electricity consumers are no longer able to pay for it. This partly shifted to the budget, the large producers became uncompetitive and these costs were passed on to small consumers by removing them to large producers, thereby disproportionately increasing their tariffs and actually contributing to the inequality of society. The competitiveness of industry is still at risk, because this OIC as a whole is too large for us to put it wherever we want. And that is actually the background of the legislation, on which there is more machinations and fraud, which has actually increased these costs. That is the range of questions. So, in fact, we should continue to support the transition to renewable energy, support the climate targets, but the country no longer has economic mechanisms to do this, because it is absolutely clear that a new OIC or new support system, even only for renewable energy, is no longer possible in any way to create and for many years, it will not be possible to carry out... Well, that's the range of questions! And obviously a very complex mechanism will be needed to do all this and deal with it. And that is not just a question of these permits, which I hope the Ministry of Economics will solve to some extent... and perhaps also looking some more years ago not only at those who have not yet been granted these permits... And maybe we will have to think about other mechanisms, or ways, to reduce this OIC in the future... but also to reduce the impact on the poor, as well as strengthening industrial competitiveness. And without forgetting the possibility that renewables (but mostly in the area of heat) could be supported by other mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U58	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U59	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! A very brief reply to what Mr. Upenieks said. I want to paraphrase one classic who said something like that, here's a reword: when you're in the pit, there's only two ways to get out: one is going out of the pit, the other is going to do an analysis, looking for complex solutions, see how it all happened. And it can really take the rest of your life. What the Ministry of Economics does, failing to answer the initial questions asked by the opposition, is directly contributing to this avalanche, because the initial answer has not been given, and therefore the process is expanding. If at first, there would be an immediate answer - peace! We would've been out of that pit. Currently you are still in the pit and analyze and are looking for complex solutions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U60	The name to Member Boris Cilevič, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U61	Dear colleagues, Mr. Riverer's position really thrills me. Now it's all clear! It is an opposition that hinders the Ministry of Economics to work, prevents the effective fight against corruption and defends the interests of consumers. Mr. Riverer, are you really serious?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I very much hope that your speech will be published and voters will learn about it and evaluate it. Do you really believe that people will believe you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, I'm sorry! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “Why should we believe you?” ) It is simply not serious. Please tell me what is preventing Minister Asheraden from coming to the Saeima and telling us about his heroic fight against corruption? ( Independence: “Watch! Write if the opposition has nothing to do!” ) You know, very... Well, that's really... I would understand if you were to sit quietly, as the most ardent fighters are doing against corruption. But when you start to figure out some excuses, sorry. Well, it would be better to obey you! We no longer expect you to do what you are obliged to do according to the law. But at least do not try to be so insane!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U62	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U63	Colleagues! We are talking a lot about the need to develop production, that the only way for people - those who receive low wages - to get more and not to take a decision to leave Latvia... that the only way is to find a job with production or a high added value. We are talking about modernisation of industry. This means, of course, that the share of labour costs in the costs of manufactured products moves to electricity, because we are modernising, robotising and actually producing with equipment. Thus, society deserves fair electricity bills, and the competitiveness of entrepreneurs is indeed dependent on reasonable electricity costs so that they are not more expensive than in other countries. In this context, I can also express your efforts, listening to Mr Upeinieks. Do I understand correctly? You have, of course, said that you are working in the right direction. But do I understand correctly that Arvil Asheraden has actually filed a war with the Secretary-General of his party, Mr Campar? A diagram has just been sent to me, where it appears that during his time exponentially, geometrically, the number of licences issued to OIC recipients has increased. Is that true? If that is the case, I really congratulate you on that. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Upenieks’s transcripts.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U64	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U65	Listening to this debate... Mr. Riverer, you gave the most brightest indictment speech to the Ministry of Economics. That is, you have told the House how normal it is: listening to the Ministry, giving the task, controlling performance. The problem is that we have not gone beyond this first stage of listening to the ministry. The Ministry has still not been able to answer the questions. And that's why we're going, as Mr. Balozy said, like an old plate on a circle. Its old plate - it's the Ministry of Economics, which tries in this way... hopes to avoid replying. And that's why this spam that you're creating, the Ministry of Economics. And you, as Parliamentary Secretary, can get there. And if you're telling... If you do not know at all what the Ministry of Economics is doing, please read my article on Delfi yesterday; it is enough for you to read it today. com. It says how, in fact, the Ministry of Economics is fighting against this OIC. And, Mr. Baloze, you're talking about... For despair. What is that - despair? I don't understand. Since the days of my children, I have had a keen interest in getting to know this world, including myself, and to get to know myself more. And, you know, I've been engaged with my friends that I'm going to run the crash procedures on a regular basis -- I'm going to go swimming, regardless of the weather, all year round at least twice a week. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “No need!” ) Because I had read that by doing so for at least four or six years (I don’t remember exactly how long) the body will have completely different options. ( Internouncing call.) And I did it no matter what the weather was like my daily schedule. If necessary, I rose five in the morning; if necessary, I went swimming minus 30 degrees. And, you know, despair was when... I was in the sea and swimming, but those who stood on the shore in the fur were desperate, for they did not understand what I was doing. Just like now, many people don't understand what I'm doing, and hope that all this will end with... Not with anything. No, it will end with exactly what I believe it has to end! It was the same with an oath. Colleagues, many of you remember my first oath here. I tried to get it out of my head, and everybody in here thought I would not do it, and everybody laughed. ( Internouncing call.) But I did it because I knew I'd do it. And in the end, I did it. And just as with this commission of inquiry. Its work will bear fruit. And desperate should be someone else. And, as it seems, it is starting to happen after this debate, because at last someone starts to refer to it and starts to think about what is actually happening. So, colleagues, I call on myself, however, to be constructive. And if you want to see the result, you will see it regardless of what you are doing here and how you try to interfere with it. The result will be! I promise you that.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U66	Name of Member (Applause) Edgar Putr.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U67	Yes, colleagues! Of course, we all know our heroes and respond to them accordingly. 2009 was a significant year. Mr. Spolish, we need to enter Wikipedia and see who we were at the time of the economic minister. ( The box “Who was? ”) ) Well, Artis Kampars at that time (interfaces: “Aye! Ooo!’ ) was a minister for the economy. What has happened, in fact, we... entrepreneurs are also feeling. And, of course, the electricity payment has an increase: the bills for January received each other have an increase of 20 per cent, the price for each other has an increase of 50 per cent. Please tell me, is the price of electricity - almost 28 cents per kilowatt hour - a competitive price? I don't know... For a businessman, an average entrepreneur in Latvia, 28 cents - this is very expensive. And that is the result of the reform! You have to think about it... Mr. Zarins... In fact, I do not know the motives of Mr. Zarins. Maybe it's also that partly someone... Maybe, so to speak, move it to cover up... so that maybe they could be covered... But, I hope, at the end of February, as the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs promises us, there will be clarity. There will also be a clear picture of very large stations. As you know, there is one very, very large station in Riga... with 40 million yearly growing support... on which we, the whole company, are also paying. That's why I hope these... the first time I think four, the second time five stations that have already been removed... Well, pseudostations, because in reality they don't actually exist in nature, there was only a permit as such... I hope common sense will win and we'll win this OIC... we will be able to start talking about a downward curve, not as it was until now - that only growing, growing, growing... This boiler is getting bigger and bigger... Now we have to think about it, because we, the public, will not be able to pay it at any time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U68	I closed the debate. Would there be something to add on behalf of the commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Ex-Commissions!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U69	Colleagues! I want to end this issue on such a positive note. Listening to today's debate, yes, Mr Viļuma, there are obviously words in place: to talk about these issues, we will meet at the same place and at the same time next Thursday. It's funny. (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U70	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jeļenas Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons' request to the Minister of Economics Arvils Aseradens "On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question No.372/J12 and the interpretation of the norms of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 221 to the meaning and purpose of the legislative act"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 34, for - 13. The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, Members Dombrava, Šnore, Dzintars, Cilinskis, Gaidis Berzins and Kols are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Transport Services”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U71	Dear Saeima! Several million euros are being wasted over the year to make driving easier for foreigners. They are neither Latvian nationals nor citizens of the European Union. The aim of the amendments that have been prepared is to clarify the number of persons who are eligible for the benefit of fares in public transport. According to data from the Central Statistical Administration, in 2017, approximately 50 000 third-country nationals lived in the Republic of Latvia. In 2016, about one million third-country tourists visited Latvia. Currently, these persons are entitled to receive identical driving charges for Latvian citizens. In turn, expenditure incurred by public transport service providers is covered by state or municipal budgets. This draft law is designed to ensure that in future, the citizens of Latvia, the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation will be able to benefit from the facilitation of fares in order to respect equal treatment between all citizens of the European Union, as well as stateless persons. Similar arrangements for fare relief are laid down in Hungary, where it is stipulated that fare relief can be granted to citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation in order to respect equal treatment between all citizens of the European Union, as well as to stateless persons. Dear Members of the Saeima! I am referring in particular to Members of the Coalition. It is precisely now that municipal budgets are being adopted which provide for grants to public transport service providers. In support of this proposal, we will send a clear signal to the local authorities that binding rules need to be amended, and this will allow several million euros to be saved this year and directed towards raising prosperity for our own citizens. I call on this matter to be placed on the agenda and referred to the committee responsible and then to the Saeima for discussion and decision. These prepared amendments have a positive impact on state and municipal budgets. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U72	Do Members object to these amendments to the agenda? “ Yes, ” he said. Yes!’ ) The vote must then be taken. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include the draft law on Public Transport Services! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 28, against - 22, refraining - 36. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U73	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, At its meeting on 6 February, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined proposals for amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees submitted to the second reading. In this meeting, the Commission also took note of the opinion of the State Data Inspectorate on whether the draft amendments violated human rights contrary to the public interest, as well as the question about the security of information in the State Revenue Service, receiving confirmation that the data that commercial banks transfer to the State Revenue Service with this draft law... that their level of data retention, as well as the control over data storage, do not differ significantly from the situation of commercial banks. In total, three proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. is a proposal from Member Juris Viļuma, which was not supported by the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U74	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U75	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! I will immediately make three proposals to save my own time and your time. One year from year on, we hear the government's stated aim of reducing the shadow economy. Even a criminal penalty has now been imposed in order to combat the pay-payers of envelopes. As far as is known, the imposition of these sanctions is not a great deal. This provision of the law was adopted on 28 July last year, on a beautiful summer day, when at second reading we examined the already famous tax reforms. At the moment, we see that the rules introduced at that time... And in this case, it is about 15 thousand euros... that each bank, each credit institution is required to report each natural person with a turnover of more than EUR 15 000 in any bank... that the rules are not well prepared and corrected, and that uncertainties need to be addressed. And here again, the old story of the fact that draft laws still have to be seen in three readings, not two. After all, we have seen this norm in four readings: once we have looked at two readings, now we are seeing it again in two readings. In addition, clarification of this provision will also require amendments to two other laws - the Credit Institutions Law and the Payment Services and Electronic Money Law. The Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia voted against these legal norms already in the summer and will therefore not be able to support this draft law today. In particular, concerns are about data security on the servers of the State Revenue Service. Because although it is customary to say in society that double does not break, in this case the information will be duplicated on two servers, and I am sorry to the servers of the State Revenue Service, I think there is a little less credibility than the banks' servers. Secondly. The question is the proportionality of this amount - EUR 15 000 -. Apparently the aim is to fight against the recipients of envelope wages, but - does it really seem only those people, those employees (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) , which receives more than EUR 1000 per month? I think that many formally receive only the minimum wage. That being the case, this threshold has already to be lowered - and it has to be substantially lowered! - because 1000 euros are probably only received by Riga and Pierīga employees. The wages set in the fields are officially lower. Definitely! Here we go! In addition, it must also be understood that a natural person can bypass this law with coercion. Thus, if a natural person has five accounts in five different banks, in five different credit institutions, it can afford to raise turnover to EUR 14 999, and no bank, no credit institution will have to report to the State Revenue Service anything. However, it is necessary to tell immediately those who think to use such a system that it will not, of course, save them from the attention of the State Revenue Service, because the SRS will still be able to request information about each eurocent bank about them. But, of course, it takes more time. And maybe that is the problem that needs to be addressed to ensure the speed of information circulation. Because otherwise the act is imitated, basically - forgive me! - the entire system is being red taped. Some of the information from which there will not really be any meaning will be obtained, because Proposal No 3, which was drawn up by the Legal Bureau and which was corrected by the Commission responsible, provides that 2019, 2020. ... No, in 2020, 2021 and 2022, the Cabinet of Ministers will come with a report to the Saeima and tell us how this norm has been implemented: whether it makes any sense or makes no sense. This means that we will now approve this provision at second reading, but basically it is a welcome to the next Saeima, which will be able to see these reports, and to the coming Saeima, which will again have to save and resolve it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U76	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U77	In the Commission, these aspects of proportionality of the amount and also the questions that the State Revenue Service will do with this information received, how it will be processed and in what way the recipients of envelope wages or illegal economic operators will be identified... These issues were discussed. The Commission decided to stay at the proposed amount of EUR 15 000. I invite you to support... I invite you to reject (Interfaces: “Support! Support!” ) Member Juris Viļuma's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U78	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Vilima's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 33, against - 46, refraining - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U79	2. There is also a proposal from Member Juris Viļuma with similar content. The Commission decided not to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U80	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Viļuma's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 47, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U81	3. is the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which was drawn up on the recommendation of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Member Vilim has already told us about the substance of this proposal. The Commission is asking for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U83	Consequently, all three proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for amendments to the Law on Taxation and Fees at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U84	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 21, for - 3. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U85	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Credit Information Bureau Law. This is the third reading. Obviously, the draft law was sufficiently well prepared, because the Members had no comments, no proposals or no comments. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be adopted at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U86	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U87	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined and prepared for the first reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”. The draft law was drawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the initiative of the National Heraldic Commission. The purpose of the amendments to the law: to ensure correct production and distribution of the Latvian flag. The draft law sets out specific requirements for the manufacturing material of the state flag of Latvia and the state flag of Latvia. The draft law establishes the right of the market surveillance authority to prohibit the sale of a batch of a flag or a batch of a flag and to control the enforcement of the ban, to take action to enforce such a prohibition, and to withdraw flags or mutes from the market if they are already placed on the market and do not meet the quality requirements of the law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U89	Proposals for second reading shall be submitted by 14 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U90	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “On publicising the documents of the former State Security Committee and lighting the power system of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U91	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs received the draft law “On public disclosure of documents of the former State Security Committee and lighting of the power system of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime” submitted by the Presidium of the Saeima and the Saeima. The aim of the law is to ensure lighting of the power system of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime by publishing documents of the Latvian Communist Party and the National Security Committee with their scientific comments. The draft law contains four articles. I have just referred to the first article - the goal. The second section provides that these documents are transferred to the National Archives of Latvia and are available to the public before 1 June 2018. Article 3 provides that those documents and other documents shall be published on the Internet with scientific comments by 31 December of this year. And Article 4 states that these documents are prepared for publication by a commission that has already been in operation, so the Scientific Research Commission for these documents. The law provides for the removal of all obstacles to the study and publication of the KGB documents with scientific comments. The Commission heard the director of the Constitutional Protection Bureau, representatives of the Research Commission, the head of the Latvian National Archives and the representative of the Ministry of Culture, and received the support that the draft law should undoubtedly be improved, but that it is as a known frame, as a framework to work. The Legal Bureau of the Saeima also pointed to the significant nuances that need to be improved, to the conflict of laws that needs to be eliminated. The commission therefore decided to refer the draft law to the Saeima for support at first reading, knowing that a working group working on the draft law was necessary. The working group was tasked with chairing Mr Ritvars Jansons, who is also one of the speakers. And then the Saeima will be offered an improved bill for the second and third reading. Dear colleagues, The Commission supported this draft law at first reading. I call on you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U92	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U93	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Of course, we should support a new draft law if it were to supplement or correct it or explain the shortcomings of the law that has been adopted so far. The law adopted in 2014 clearly tells us that the bags will be opened, and there is also a specific date - June 1. There are, of course, uncertainties there. There are a number of uncertainties: what does that commission actually do and how it is published? And if this complementary bill could prevent it, it would be good. It would be wrong for us to start a new debate and to reinvigorate everything. Of course, from our experience so far, the 'working group' sounds a bit suspicious. But well, let's take a positive look. We should not be discussing more about opening the bags. Because earlier, when we were talking about the Commission here, it was perhaps because this discussion started again. In my opinion, at that time, the National Association was unduly accused of standing up for delaying the opening of bags, to which the response was hasty... perhaps a slightly hasty draft law, which was also acknowledged by the committee’s chairman at the moment. Let's assume that the people are promised that we'll shoot that shit in the air for a hundred years. That'll be it. That container will be fired with manure in the air, and the open mouths of many are now waiting for it to happen, as it will. And how will it be? That is the main question. How can you do that? That is why we need a commission that has been working for a long time, but we cannot really understand what is going on there. How will we transform this manure into a national clean-up process? That is why we also need this commission, the work of which we are not clear, and perhaps the new draft law will improve this situation. From the commission, we should be very pragmatic and constructive, and responsible recommendations to the government, not ideologies, conferences, books. Let's say that's a question. Both competent and intelligent people are needed here, because the question is about one unpleasant thing for the nation. These are moral issues, they are legal aspects, because this time the courts are not the ones who co-operate and who are in those bags. There's only a moral condemnation there. And the question is whether they are going to try to bring any counterclaim for the violation of dignity and dignity as well as Estonia and Lithuania. In addition, there is the question: what does it mean to publish? How will this happen technically? I admit that it is quite difficult for people who do not, to say, have been promoted in all these technical matters to understand what the publication of all this huge content, the vast amount of information. Moving to the archive. Perhaps this is a good solution if the archive representatives know how to do it and how it will proceed smoothly. Then it's good. I understood that in the commission they have been, there is talk about it, and I hope they will also participate in the next stage when this draft law will be reviewed at second and third readings. Of course, it would be important for the research commission to know clearly what is expected of it, not as it was until now, that the head of the committee suddenly starts to say that I have not promised anyone that we will go in and comment on those bags. No, no! There should be clear knowledge. These issues, which are currently insecure and unclear, are... The archive is handed over until June 1. Okay. But, above all, this does not turn out to be so that on June 1 we find that what has been up to now is unenforceable - that until June 1 these documents are publicly available... Then we will go even further. And, of course, the question remains what is meant by the norm that is currently in the draft law - that published on the Internet with scientific comments by 2018... 31 December already appears. I'm calling... All these questions should really be clarified. I call for support (but with some worrying questions) for once to come forward with this uncomfortable issue, otherwise Members also start to tease like a wand on a drama, nervously as it looks like a public space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U94	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U95	I also call for support for this draft law and believe that it is vital for our country. My view is that the faster the better it is, the better it is. Why? Because we would in principle light those forces behind all these Czech bags. And in principle, I call them a network of restored cheque agents. And in fact, I think that this renewed network of Czech agents is still being used to manipulate us, with officials, with the judiciary and with the law enforcement authorities. The facts and everyday life show that the media, too, continue to be present. It's not a question of removing any dirt, but it's a solution today, so that we don't have to be manipulated. I think there won't be much dirt there, because actually, if we think logically, then... During the Soviet era and at any time, the media in the positive light of the storms caused those people who were loyal. And who primarily determined loyalty? Cheka. So that's... If a person is logical... If he's a debile... he would understand - all the people who were written about by the Soviet press are... Okay... is in this check bag. It's just logical. And I think it has to be done... Also injustice against my party member Arvid Ulmi... He, out of all the many who are there, was in principle thrown out and drowned... Even though... What do I mean? This, in my opinion, will do nothing wrong for these people. I'm less respectful of it. And voters are less respectful, voters have sufficiently supported Arvīds Ulmi in this Saeima elections. Yes, of course, people in Czech bags have concluded in a way the Fausta agreement with Lucifer. My support... I also say now what I said earlier at the Saeima sitting that there was such an agreement with the grey forces: “We are doing one for our part: we are helping you to go abroad, get an apartment faster, get it more, step up the career ladder... “ It’s a kind of contract with Lucifer. But... Well, assume that these were the times, some people wanted to survive. Well, sorry, let's take them and don't think there's any crazy dirt or anything else! That was the time. But I'm more concerned that this renewed network of agents is still being used to manipulate us. In my opinion, the sooner we open these bags, the less people here will come in the quarry and shout: “Be a thief!”
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U96	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U97	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I also support this draft law, but above all because Mrs Laizane has also said that it will be possible to improve it later in readings and seriously recast it. So let me start by saying that this is a normal situation for us all the time, but during the pre-elections there is an unusual situation, attention is increased, and public attention is very difficult to attract widely. Mārtiņš Bondars was here, and I have to say that he was in our middle, and he and the shoe were able to attract attention. If we are talking about the Czech case, it is a Soviet boot that stands above Parliament and for quite a long time since the beginning of the 1990s, when the Supreme Council ceased to exist after the declaration of independence. And later it continued with the first Saeima. There were investigation commissions set up by the Supreme Council, then there was the so-called bag investigation commission, led by Lainis Kamaldiņš, who later became director of SAB, it was one of the first parliamentary investigation commissions. No signs! The law, the so-called Czech bag law, was mulled, mulled until finally the last enlightenment came to create this interdisciplinary commission, which should now have completed its work this year. The thing is that... Now to the law. In Article 3 of the draft law, which we will now approve, Mr Latkovsky has already said, is this date, December 31, and this commission, led by Mr Kanger, and scientific comments and the Internet. So these materials should be accompanied by scientific comments on the Internet, and this work should be done by 31 December. Article 4 already talks about the fact that this committee will prepare the Czech bag papers together with its comments. I have just read this year, on 1 February, an interview that Mr Canger gave to the Day, and I have concerns - really great concerns! - his answers to the questions asked by “Daily”. Because it is, colleagues, that yes, the cheque bags should be published, yes, there should be these scientific comments. But Kanger already says in fact that, well, you're telling us here that we're not doing anything. We will already do it by the deadline for the Commission to close its work. However, there will be no big comments. We believe that these bags should be published simply. And so when it comes to this draft law, when it comes to making any comments, I'm terrified. I will go back and say the answer to the question that Mr Kanger said to the day. I will ask you to listen and think more deeply about what we can expect from the scientific comments that the Commission is preparing. So the question is: "We hear that innocent people - their children and grandchildren - will suffer the consequences of publishing the names of Czech agents. On the principle that future generations do not have to be held accountable for the sins of their predecessors.’ That's what Kanger asks. Canger answers: “It’s not so clear. If we study biographies, there are many cases where Czech children have become Czechs later. In order to value people in a longer period of time, this family needs to know about it." I think that if we are talking about good works, often good works remain hidden. If we talk about hatred and its cultivation, then we do not have to look for examples. The same 'oligarch Commission' created by Mr. Judin. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Also, if we look at this check-bag final... I think there really must be comments here and there really must be a scientific commission here, colleagues, not a delegation, to allow this commission to operate in principle forever, not only before the end of this year, but beyond, and in fact it will not be able to do anything... Therefore, I am really very sceptical about the final result and I hope that Ritvar Janson will really pay attention to it in his commission so that it is not simply a culture of hatred against each other, but indeed, if there is no lustration possible, then it is possible to say that some very serious scientific comment is made on everything there, which is being published there, and not simply - half a million spent on the Commission, we will now spend on digitisation, and finally there will be one chic. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U98	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U99	It was said from this triple that Czech bags have a scent of shit. And there is an old man's saying, The more filthier the shit is, the more it stinks. As a result, the draft law offers to speed up the process of publishing documents, preparing them for publication in good time and not waiting for the Cabinet of Ministers order on 31 October of this year, as stipulated by the law on the use of KGB documents. This should also be done by maximising the work of the above-mentioned Scientific Research Commission on KGB documents. And this commission really works according to the law only until 31 May. This draft law promotes... provide for the final report of the panel at the end of May and shall also make scientific comments from the panel in order to avoid blank documentation. And the head of their commission, Mr Kanger, has promised that the commission will make such comments. We will not interfere with the work of the Commission, which is already regulated in cooperation with the Constitutional Protection Office. Researchers will study these documents by the end of May, give the final report, and only then these documents will be moved to the archive and made available to the public. It will also discipline the work of the committee - the work of scientists. And it will also be the parliamentary control that has so often been said about this committee. All documents of the KGB in compliance with this law will be transferred to the National Archives of Latvia, as is normal in all countries where all documents of repressive institutions are in one whole. They will be made available to the public. And the publication of these documents will not be a huge amount. This amount will be determined by the scientists themselves, the types of documents will be determined by the scientists themselves, because it cannot be determined by politicians, but there will be no millions of pages. The Commission will close its work in May. Further documents will be handed over to the archives, where the archives will prepare them for publication, and therefore there is a period of time that is very reasonable - until 31 December. The main thing is that the emphasis in this lighting and publication will not be placed on the small KGB informants, but on the power system as a whole. And then we're not going to love these shit anymore, but we're going to be able to get a clear view of the system completely. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U100	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U101	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Naturally, it's better the terrible end than the horrors without end. And there are two options that our group has always offered recently (when we stopped talking and started to understand what is a national consciousness and a national interest): either we burn these so-called cheque bags on the Dome Square - we put a stop to all kinds of shooting and false or true insults, or we publish. But, you know, I was listening and I thought we were living in a very interesting time and place. What should be secret, we're hiding. What needs to be made public is secret. In the last sittings of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, we have heard the opinion of the State Audit Office several times. What do you think: what could be secret in the study carried out by the State Audit Office - in the audit of the State Audit Office on the quality of pre-trial investigations? No, it's secret. The question is, ‘ But why?’ The answer is: “It’s very simple. Because it can be used during the pre-election period.’ Okay. We heard representatives of the Ministry of Defence yesterday. There are also a whole range of meanings. Clandestine again, not available to the public. It could be used by our enemies. What? The officials' inaction? There is no public access to information on crimes committed by police officers. Listen, the agency in any country is a very protected list. Only one person can get acquainted with an agent's personal case in our country. No one else. I have not heard in any way that, at the time of the first free state, when both the Social Democrats and representatives of other parties, who were active in the stučite of zarahranka and who went into prison and exile, came to power, that the students would have gone through and that any lists would have been published. I do not remember in any way that when the USSR came to Latvia in 1940 or the Germans came in 1941 and got access to archives, including archives of agents, who would have known some publications. These materials usually work with specs. Let us see what those officials who should actively defend the option of working with these cards, surnames and so on with specialists. Absolutely silenced by the Minister for the Interior, absolutely silenced by SAB Director, former SAB Director, who is going to become the next SAB Director... Here Mr. Kalnozol spoke very passionately about the former, existing Czech employees. But let's remember (even those who can remember) August 19, 1991 - the attempt of a coup d'état in the Soviet Union. If the senior officers of the State Security Committee, the armed forces of the USSR and other force structures had supported this pug, many would stand up today in the same troubling, passionately criticising international imperialism. Young people too. Go on. You know, we can be proud of them or call them Gentiles. But there is such a very interesting coincidence, talking about sin and history. History, however, should also be known to those present here. It was the Latvian representatives who founded repressive organs of the USSR - both the main intelligence administration of the army and participated in the establishment of the Czech Republic or the State Security Committee. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Čigāne: “What about the draft law?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) People born in Latvia created one of the most powerful specialties in the world – Mossad, who works successfully, and also participated in the creation of other specialties. You see, when we talk about agent cards that we don't want to think about, we're all done unanimously, we're publishing Czech bags! From 1917 to 1991, the State Security Committee has changed its name four times. This cart contains data on persons from 1940 onwards. To your knowledge, until 1954 there was no separate State Security Committee, Ministry of the Interior. There was a unified system, the NKVD. It then split up. Then it changed again. Go on. There were 18 different types of administration in the State Security Committee. There were two administrations for crimes that did not exist officially in the USSR: organised crime and international terrorism, where there were also their own agencies and international ones. In 1991, when Latvia really regained its independence, very many former employees of the State Security Committee voluntarily applied and came to work in the Ministry of the Interior and in various structures of the state power, and worked sufficiently successfully. Naturally, many of them also used the agency that has remained since old times, especially those who were active in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. They were dozens of people who were carrying out their duties in good faith. Thanks to them, we were able to carry out very many international operations outside... very far beyond Latvia, such as in South America, the Middle East, Asia and so on; it helped to combat drug flows, helped to eliminate organised crime chains in the territory of Latvia, drug transit chains (where various countries were involved), illegal immigrants' chains. I often hear here about the fact that the Security Police, our special services, are unable to combat agencies from other countries. You will enjoy the presentation of the former Prime Minister in the Saeima in 1995, report on the work of the Cabinet of Ministers! Then you will see both numbers and ways how and what you have done. If we turn the services into political prostitutes who carry out politicians' orders, and the leaders are chosen for personal trouble or displeasure, and not for professional criteria, then there is no need to wonder about the results that we have reached. If we abolish the only educational institution that prepared the special services, what are we discussing at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's a fool to go on here, just think about how this commission, which doesn't even differ... I had several live shows, different interviews with their representatives... And if people don't understand who the agent is, with which the agent is different, the rapporteur, the source of information, the holder of the conspirative apartment, everything is just under one spies! But what are the differences, what are the nuances? What are we going to do with those people who are probably also in the box, but who have already helped in the free country, now, to fight both organised crime, drug addiction and international terrorism? Thus, when publishing these surnames, the Saeima and the relevant commission assume responsibility for the physical settlement of their family members and their successors. I don't believe we're going to get to common sense, but I'm asking you at least to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U102	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U103	I would like to resist a little with regard to the light security forces that went on to work for the Republic of Latvia, and with regard to their claim: how light they are, how nice! Either these bright, nice forces are totally incompetent, or they cover everything that happens. All that was why we had the so-called oligarch commission here and so on. I myself have ever gone to Mr Kažozciņš and wanted to say where I had a connection with corruption. He bemoaned me like a fire, for God's sake, that he may not so meet Nagornosole. The same thing's happening to Miarythy. For God's sake! And if you think theft of the state is not a matter of national security, then, forgive me! Don't need these... maybe they did something good as well. But what is it now? More than 370 thousand have left Latvia, corruption, debt of 10 billion and many other things do not prove good for the work of security services.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U104	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U105	At the beginning of this week, I asked the head of the Office of Constitutional Protection, Mr. Maizitis, how can the situation be such that the KGB's former rapporteur is responsible for the field of education in Daugavpils? Accordingly Daugavpils... Is that Amy? What do we have now in Daugavpils mayor? Deputy Mayor of Daugavpils. His name is Aivars Zdanovskis. Mr. Maizinis told me that this is the law. Municipal Members may be former employees or reporters, or agents, or apartment holders, or communicate anything else. It's as if you don't have a family. I would like to express my thanks to all the Members who supported my proposed amendments to the Law on Elections to the City Council and the District Council of the Republic, where the words “an agent or a rapporteur” were added. Because never a single agent and rapporteur would have been a staff member of the KGB. And what's interesting now? The most powerful speakers from this troupe on this issue - the transfer of KGB documents to the archives - are two Members. One name is Adamson; the other name is Nanosol. Both, both of these people did not vote in favour of these amendments to the municipal electoral law. Both are the quickest speakers who do not know why they are so aware of all kinds of KGB activities, inactions, agents, rapporteurs. Very well informed. Good job, Adamson! Hide without hiding. This is the first reading. Please be welcome to the Commission with your proposals. They will be examined. This is the first reading. And this goes in total, so sazobium with what you have already supported, on amendments to the law on municipal elections. Then we will also open the electoral law of the Saeima so that these agents and rapporteurs cannot be here in the Saeima. In fact, this draft law, together with the amendments already approved by you, is doing a sacred thing for my Latvia. We will finally replace the political generation. Here, in the Saeima, the political generation will finally be replaced. Young people will come. The voter will see if he has been or has not been. We're going to educate the voters. So far, it's still a hard job, but I'll do it, whether it's from this tribunal or whatever the way voters need to be educated, and then you'll see it. The municipal council will not be the rapporteurs nor the former Czech employees either. Then it is possible for the country to develop in some way. In national policies, the generation needs to change. Please support this draft law at first reading, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U106	Name to Member Ritvar Janson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U107	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Please do not link this draft law to the election of the SAB director, to any other absences in the country or to the municipal elections. Let us not tell you that we were in operations in South America. Neither the Latvian state had administration, nor we had operations in South America. It was the occupation power - the USSR power. And let us focus on the fact that this law is really so that totalitarianism and its consequences never happen in Latvia. The law will use the terminology already in the basic law – the law “On the preservation, use and fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB”. And perhaps this law will also have to be brought into line with this framework law. So this is the next challenge that the Saeima should do. Please support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U108	The name of Member John Adamson for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U109	Dear colleagues, And I turn to you separately, Mr. Janson! For those in the tank, I repeat that in my speech... I am not speaking about the USSR period at the time, but I am talking about the period starting in 1991, when these operations were carried out by VESAD employees; then VESAD was transformed into a Security Police. Second. Mr. Neighbours! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Yes, Mr. Adamson! Please!’ ) You know, first of all, I have not shepherded pigs with you, so at least be polite publicly. Secondly. In order to educate voters, we need to educate ourselves from the beginning. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U110	The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U111	Dear colleagues, I have read only history books and learned from older colleagues about what life in the Soviet Union was like. Although this topic is not relevant for people of my age and young people, I know that it is emotionally important for those who have suffered from this regime. It is emotionally important for those who are afraid to sing Latvian songs - that they don't pass them. It is emotionally important for those who have used national symbols with fear. And therefore, by a long analysis of this subject, we are covering the suspicion shadow of ourselves. Therefore, as with the issue of the oligarch negotiations, I call for support for the publication of these documents and for people to be allowed to determine whether they want to know or not to know. Let people believe that they have fought this country and it is managed by honest people, not by anyone trying to hide, perhaps, information from their endless discussions and drawers! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “You’re telling about OIC now?” ) I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U112	The name of the Member, Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U113	Dear colleagues, These documents are not just boot over the Saeima, they are lead shoes in the feet of our people. We say very often from the platform: our constituents are not fools. Colleagues, do we really think otherwise in this case? Our people are smart. A nation that has passed through enormous hardships has not searched for enemies in children and grandchildren. My dad was repressed, and when he returned from Siberia, he learned who made the lists. And we knew it. And the children of this man are respectable citizens of Latvia. One is even one that we have all voted on, an honorable official. But has anyone who is being repressed come to mind to blame his children and grandchildren for what their parents did? Dear colleagues, I call on us to trust our people - it is an intelligent nation! - and take off lead shoes so that we can watch in the future and go on safely. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U114	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission about this draft law?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U115	Yeah. The Commission, aware of all the shortcomings in the draft law, encourages the creation of a working group, as this needs to be improved. I call on all the political groups to refer to and delegate Members. The Commission decided to support this draft law at first reading. I call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U116	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On publicising the documents of the former State Security Committee and lighting the power system of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U117	Proposals should be submitted by 15 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U118	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - March 15, this year. Dear colleagues, Members of the Parliament are asking Mr Abu Meri, Mr Brigmanis, Mr Morozov, Mr River and Mr Dzintar to continue the sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. ( Independence: “No! Lunch!’ ) Do Members have objections? Does anyone have objections? ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes!’ , “No!” ; “Ir!” ; “No!” ) There is no objection. ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) So... And the objections. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - 8, for - 1. Decision adopted. The sitting of the Saeima shall be held without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U119	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts” at second reading. The Commission has not received any proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U120	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U121	The deadline for submitting proposals is 14 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U122	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U123	Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”. The current international framework on border crossings has been codified. In this context, the draft law specifies the references to that Regulation. Therefore, the draft law provides that the State Border Guard shall record in the electronic information system information about all persons crossing the external border of the Republic of Latvia and their travel documents, as well as vehicles owned by them crossing the external border of the Republic of Latvia and their documents. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U124	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U125	February 15th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U126	The deadline for submitting proposals is February 15, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Roman Miloslavski.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U127	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission of Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. On 26 September 2017, the Cabinet of Ministers discussed the conceptual report prepared by the Ministry of Health on the situation in the field of anti-doping in Latvia and the necessary changes that describe the current situation in Latvia and the existing problems. It indicates that according to a survey conducted by the World Anti-Doping Agency, several discrepancies have been identified in the Latvian anti-doping system. These discrepancies could have serious consequences (for example, the participation of Latvian athletes in the Olympic Games could be jeopardised). The National Anti-Doping Board of Latvia is created as a consultative body to deal with anti-doping issues. It supports the independence of the anti-doping system. Amendments to the Sport Law provide for the establishment of a separate independent disciplinary anti-doping commission, which deals with infringements of anti-doping regulations and determines their consequences in accordance with anti-doping conventions. In view of the topicality and necessity of the draft law, I call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U128	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U129	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, fellow Members! Finally, on the eve of the Olympic Games, if this is the case, we have also come up with changes to the Sport Law, which we have needed for a very long time and which affect everything that is related to doping. Finally, we have come to this point, because of the international pressure from the World Anti-Doping Agency and the threat of sanctions (even before the ban on starting the Olympic Games), we will get to our independent Latvian Anti-Doping Office, our Latvian National Anti-Doping Council, our Discipline Anti-Doping Commission, as well as our Committee on Therapeutic Use Exemptions. And maybe we'll get to our national anti-doping rules. When assessing compliance of Member States with the requirements of the World Anti-Doping Code, the World Anti-Doping Agency has found a number of discrepancies in the Latvian anti-doping system. I'll just mention two. First. There is insufficient autonomy of the state anti-doping organisation. Now there will be an independent office - the Latvian Anti-Doping Bureau, not an anti-doping department, which was under the auspices of the State Sports Medicine Centre. Of course, since nothing is independent in Latvia, this Latvian Anti-Doping Office will be subject to the Ministry of Health. But I have a question: will that be enough? Because some people in the Commission said that the Ministry of Health is already so hard to go with carrying out its duties and that it is unlikely that this will be the case. So I have the idea that maybe something higher should entrust this important browser function in our country. Second. In Latvia, the number of analyses performed in the Anti-Doping division is so far very insufficient: in 2014 - only 251 prove, in 2015 - 306, in 2016 - 483. But we need at least a thousand! Of course, the World Anti-Doping Agency is interested in high-class athletes, participants of national teams, who are taking part in European and world championships, Olympics. In order for Latvian athletes to start at the highest level in international matches, it is necessary to ensure control of these athletes at least twice a year. And this is all very well understood. But where do the national championships of Latvia remain, regardless of the sport - sports games or individual sports? When I asked the question about doping analyses carried out over the last three years for Latvian athletes, the answer of the Education, Culture and Science Commission last week was quite shocking: “No doping test has been carried out over the last three years.” The catastrophic lack of finance was mentioned as a reason. And here's a small example from Estonia. Three years in Estonia, too, had to face this problem. At that point, more than 10 Latvian guys played in Estonia, and two Latvian basketball players had to feel what control of Estonian doping meant. Apparently, according to an anonymous report, they fell in, and one received six months’ disqualification, or half a year, about the peeling of the grass, and the other received two years for a very, very coloured brush. I would like to add that the catching of users is to some extent in their own interest, because it does not contribute to the health of the prohibited substances - it destroys their health and shortens the life of the sportsman. But there is also something good. Finally, Latvia will have its own Anti-Doping Office with its own funding, which will not be large at the beginning of its operation – only 699 thousand euros, of which half - 359 thousand will be allocated to these analyses. It will be sufficient for the thousands of doping proponents that the World Anti-Doping Agency sets as a minimum. It is only to be taken into account that, with each year, this funding will have a tendency to increase, because, as the events of recent years have shown, those who invent doping always go ahead with those who want to discover it. A bright example here is the Sochi Olympics. No one's ever disqualifying right away: serving medals, playing anthems, and taking two analyses, two proves. The first is checked immediately, nothing is detected, the second is frozen, and when the suspicion shadow falls for the second time, the analyses are thawed and checked. Medicine has gone ahead, and it is found that they have cheated on doping. Of course, after that, there are all these consequences, as was the case in Sochi. This did not happen to our Olympics, but we could get to a couple of gold medals. And then it started! What are those... Well, how do you say that? Some take off, cancel these doping analyses, others fine. And finally. Latvia needs this anti-doping event in order for athletes to carry their names fairly in the world of our country, Latvia, so that sporting results can be achieved in a sporty, honest fight, and that the medals we have won can't be taken away even after the opening of the second doping show. On the eve of the Phionchhan Olympics, I wish all Latvian athletes successful starters, fight kicks and medals won. Let at least one gold medal be ours and at least once in Phionchhan sound “God, bless Latvia!” . Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U130	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? None. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to Sport Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U131	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 22 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U132	Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for the Activities of New Enterprises”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U133	Dear colleagues, The Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima has examined amendments to the Law on Support for New Enterprises, which provides for the extension of the scope of the law, the extension of the scope of state aid beneficiaries, adapting it to industry practice and thus having a positive impact on the development of the innovation system. The Commission had discussions on the most legally correct form of defining certain rules, which was also discussed at the previous Saeima meeting. But following an agreement between the Ministry of Economics and the Legal Bureau, these changes will be directed and corrected at second reading. I therefore call on the Commission to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U134	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Support for the Activities of New Enterprises"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U135	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 13 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U136	Proposals are due by 13 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U137	Colleagues! We see the draft law elaborated by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”. Amendments shall be based on the request of the State Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Monuments to make amendments to this Law. In essence, it is requested to replace in all articles of the law the words ‘National Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Monuments’ with the words ‘National Cultural Heritage Board’. At present, institutions for the protection of responsible cultural monuments in many European countries are often referred to as administrations. The State Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Monuments shall not, according to its responsibilities, responsibilities and powers, differ from those institutions of other countries. And it must be said that the term ‘cultural monument’ has become obsolete and is being replaced by ‘cultural heritage’ more and more. The inspectorate, in the sense of the company, is more associated with supervision, control, punishment, but not with supervision of the entire conservation process, consultations and other support that the inspectorate is currently engaged in. Therefore, there is a request in the law to replace the words ‘National Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Monuments’ with the words ‘National Department of Cultural Heritage’. The draft law also provides for the addition of a number of articles to the relevant law. One of them is dealing with antiques: it would be prohibited for a private person to acquire, store, move, transfer and trade antiques belonging to the state. The law is also supplemented by an article that in municipal territories where the number of cultural monuments of local importance exceeds 300, it is necessary to ensure the establishment of a local heritage protection service. And more. The law is supplemented by Article 18.3, providing that the procedure for installing monuments and memorial signs dedicated to historical events and persons, as well as new memorial sites, are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. That is the essence. Request for support at first reading
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U138	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U139	Deadline for the proposals for second reading by 23 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U140	Thank you. Proposals are due by 23 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Procedure for the Entry into Force of the Law on Society and Foundations”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Ainārs Mežulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U141	Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government shall propose amendments to the Law on Procedure of the Law on the Entry into Force of the Law on Associations and Foundations. According to the data of the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia, in at least 34 cases liquidation has started until 31 December 2005. However, the liquidation process has not been completed mainly because no formal application for the exclusion of the relevant entity from the register of public organisations has been submitted to the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia. In order to avoid the fact that up-to-date information about public organisations or associations that do not actually operate and are not legally entitled to carry out their activities pursuant to Section 14 (4) of the Law on the Procedure for the entry into force of the Law on Society and Foundations is stored in the register of public organisations for an indefinite period, it is necessary to improve the legal framework of the Law on the Procedure for the Use of the Law on Society and Foundations and to establish the procedure by which such public organisations or associations of public organisations should be excluded from the register of public organisations. In addition, there are about 300 public organisations and associations of public organisations in the Register of Public Organisations, which were not excluded from the Register of Public Organisations according to the procedure laid down in Section 13 of the Law on Procedure for the entry into force of the Law on Society and Foundations due to the claim of creditors. Given that most of these organisations do not have active members, as well as decisive administrative bodies, which may convene a meeting of members of a public organisation or association of public organisations to decide on the above issues, it is not expected that these organisations will initiate liquidation proceedings in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Law on Society and Foundations. Consequently, an appropriate legal framework is needed to prevent those public organisations and their associations from having, for an unlimited period of time, currently more than 10 years, in a register which is practically no longer available, and the Register of Enterprises should keep a register in which the registered organisations do not exist and do not operate. Please accept this draft law as an urgency and support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U142	So first we have to vote on urgency Please call! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Procedure for the Entry into Force of the Law on Society and Foundations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Procedure for the Entry into Force of the Law on Society and Foundations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U143	The time limit for consideration of the proposals is 15 February and the second reading is 22 February at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U144	Thank you. Proposals must be submitted by 15 February this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 22 February this year. The agenda is an examination of the own-initiative proposals. Draft decision on the call for sanctions for persons involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U145	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We are working on document No. 4470 “On call for sanctions for persons involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case”. Lawyer Sergey Magnitski has become a symbol of the fight for the rule of law in the international community. Magnitskis discovered that Russian law enforcement staff had misappropriated state budget funds of 5.4 billion rubles, and died in the pre-trial detention in the insularity on 16 November 2009. Magnitsky spent 358 days there. Was subjected to torture, physical violence and did not receive medical treatment. Instead of investigating the evidence he obtained, the Russian law enforcement authorities were turned against Magnitski himself, indicting him in these crimes. Even after his death, demonstrating an understanding of the rule of law in Russia, he continued to lead to a demonstration of his guilt until 2013. He has become another testimony to the fact that the Russian system of power is counting on the people who are uncomfortable with it. Since the death of Sergey Magnitsky, several countries, including the United States, Canada, Great Britain, Estonia and Lithuania, as well as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, have adopted legislation declaring Russia's action in the Magnitsk case unacceptable while imposing sanctions against persons involved in the Magnitsky case. In order to agree with these and other democratic countries that are preparing similar acts, the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima has prepared a draft decision providing for the imposition of sanctions against those involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case. At the Foreign Affairs Commission meeting on 24 January, we heard a number of arguments in favour of this draft decision. First. The honour case of Latvia as a legal state is with Parliament's decision to demonstrate a clear condemnation of the actions and persons related to the Magnitsky case. By expressing its attitude to the crimes committed by them, this document includes an invitation to the Cabinet of Ministers to include a number of aliens related to Magnitsk cases in the list of undesirable persons for Latvia, thus preventing their entry into Latvia. Secondly. The draft decision is a reminder of the importance both for us and for the whole democratic world. The rule of law, democracy and human rights are fundamental values of our country, which we are always prepared to defend. And thirdly. The meeting underlined that the impact of the draft decision should not be limited to condemnation and sanctions against the persons concerned. It was hoped that this process would continue on an international scale. Latvia has neither begun nor concluded this positive process. Parliaments in several European Union countries are currently discussing similar decisions and could join soon. The draft decision includes a call for the parliaments of other European Union and NATO Member States to adopt legislation named Magnitsk in order to strengthen the common rule of law environment, as well as to support the initiative to implement targeted, Magnitsk-related sanctions at European Union level. The Foreign Commission believes that Latvia's accession to the condemnation of those involved in the Magnitsk case is a strong international signal to other countries about the indisputability and unshakability of values of democracy and the rule of law. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U146	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U147	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable members of the Bureau. Members! The concept of "international justice" may seem abstract. So I'll let you be specific. Today we are talking about human rights. Rights are not anything abstract or distracted from the everyday life of an individual. Although the forms of national administration vary, Russia is also a member of international organisations such as the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which unites one basic principle: human rights. These commitments state that everyone has inalienable rights and fundamental freedoms. The repression carried out in Russia against journalists, human rights defenders and activists who want to enlighten the criminal activities of their government and officials has been worldwide. Sergey Magnitski, a lawyer who discovered that Russian law enforcement staff had misappropriated budget resources of 5.4 billion rubles, has become a symbol of the current status quo of Russia. He has become a symbol of how the Russian authorities act when someone goes too close to revealing the truth. After almost a year of imprisonment, torture, and physical violence, Magnitsky died. If it had happened here, in Latvia, if the responsible persons were not held accountable, but instead would receive state awards and gain the benefit of sudden materials, if a person was tried here after death, then, I would like to say, all the hell would go open. We will decide today whether to introduce the Magnitsky List - targeted political sanctions against those involved in the Magnitsky case. The Magnitsk case has been discussed in international organisations, including the European Union and the Council of Europe, which have acted accordingly and adopted legislation. Both the United States, Canada and Lithuania and Estonia have adopted legislation declaring Russia's actions in the Sergey Magnitsk case unacceptable while imposing sanctions on the parties involved. None of the above is a secret. I would remind you that when looking at this draft decision in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Members agreed that we are talking about criminals, we know their names, we know what their victims are. We know that there are decades more like Magnitsky. The Russian authorities want the death of Magnitsk to be forgotten. But, as writer Milan Kunder said, a man's fight against power is a memory fight against forgetfulness. We must not allow Magnitiskis to be forgotten. We must be able to ensure that the matter of Magnitsky and the words of his torturers are recorded in indelible form in the collective memory of the world as an event the repetition of which is not permitted. Colleagues! There is no place in Latvia for people who are directly responsible or co-responsible for the torture and death of innocent people. There is no place in Latvia or in the world for their blood money. They're compromising us morally. Yes, the implementation of the Magnitsk list is a serious step, and it is a strong signal, it is a principled, political and sharp action. Although the abolition of entry permits and the freezing of funds cannot necessarily constitute a fair trial in this case, the application of such sanctions will have a real and potentially impact on those individuals who have so far enjoyed impunity in the Sergey Magnitsk case. And the story is not just about the actions of the Russian authorities today. The story is about us too. I think there are the truths under which all of us will sign. And these truths are enshrined in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Everyone has the right to life, freedom and the integrity of a person. No one should be arbitrarily arrested, no person should be subjected to torture or cruel, inhumane treatment and punishment, inhumanely humiliating his human dignity. I think everyone will want this right to apply to him personally and to every fellow human. Our actions as a state, our decisions and principles tell and explain who we are to the rest of the world. Do we want to continue allowing criminals to enter and operate in our own country? Are we, however, a country that cares about human rights, the rule of law and justice? If we are such, we need to show it through actions, firm positions, and real implementation of principles in life, rather than declaratory and tactful, with various unsubstantiated arguments. I believe we are not so weak. In accordance with Latvia's international commitments and obligations in the field of respect for human rights and the rule of law, our duty is clear. It is our duty to ensure that responsibility is imminent. I invite you to remember our principles and your conscience. Three Latvian senior officials have expressed their support for the implementation of the Magnitsky list. I also call on you to stand up for the principles of human rights, the rule of law and justice and to support this draft decision of the Saeima. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U148	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U149	Hello! Mrs. Mūrniece, Latvians have a saying: “Ilen’s bag has not been hidden.” And the only person in the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia who objected to the rapid progress of the draft decision of the Saeima “On call for sanctions for those involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case” was Gunārs Kūtris, a member of the Saeima Secretary, who was kept in office. It was Mr Kūtra, who made a self-population for SAB leadership from a party that was not represented in the Saeima, and a demise group led by Mrs Silverba... Unfortunately, you are also responsible for what happened, Mrs Mūrniece, because when Mr Nunozole made a mistake clearly and clearly saying that, no, he did not object to looking at the matter at last sitting, and no one from SASKAN was against this issue either, you were looking intensively for support. And thanks to Mr Kola, by the way, he was outraged at why this issue was not dealt with at last sitting. Was it Mr Kūtra's message to Russia that there is another person in the Saeima and the Bureau of the Republic of Latvia who favours a neighbouring country? I don't know. In any case, I am concerned that, in the oligarchi case, the President was told that there was a need for the Kremlin's harmonisation and the Kremlin did not object... And now, in my opinion, is the question now whether the Kremlin will object or not to Mr Curry's SAB Director? Thank you. And think about that, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U150	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U151	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, There would be no problem with supporting this draft decision, but with a number of conditions: if there were no absolute duality in this Parliament, in particular from the foreign reserve, and an absolutely different approach to various decisions and reviews. There would be no problem in supporting this draft decision, but then there are even more sub-conditions: if we, like the British Parliament, condemned our military expansion in Iraq, which was absolutely unfounded and illegal... We are talking passionately here; very many colleagues are talking about occupation, the consequences of occupation, but listen to why you... we are taking part in action by occupying other countries, but we cannot even condemn it? Why has the Foreign Affairs Commission not prepared a draft decision, although the European Commission has condemned the relevant action on the secret CIA prisons, on the cruel torture? If we are talking about human rights... ( Interface: “On the draft decision! ” ) If you talk about human rights, then let us remember that the decades of Guantánamo in Cuba are illegal... An illegal prison, where people are tortured, is held in custody without any legal proceedings and so on. Now the transition to this draft decision, which is in itself absurd. However, without even going into the problem, as far as the material of this case is concerned, I call on my colleagues to return to the Immigration Law, which, if I am remembered, sets out what and how, and on what basis, the person concerned is placed on the blacklist. This right is due to suspicions or evidence by the Minister of the Interior that a person is involved in organised crime, terrorism, drug trafficking and so on, as well as to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but it only affects the diplomatic corps. Looking at this list, I understand that both Mr Kalniņš and the Foreign Minister no longer have the actors, the stage artists to be included, and then there is a list that we should now consider. I know the procedure pretty well... I am familiar with the procedure by which people enter the blacklist. There is adequate evidence of what everyone has done and of what he is dangerous to national security. Colleagues! I could have had just as much of a phone list from the phone book here, because these names, which have been published here, have nothing to say to me. How well is this justified, and what positions have you held? ( Interessions: “National Report to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! ” ) Therefore, when we talk about the European Parliament and their reports, then... There's also some things there... some evidence. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Cols: "Read the report of the European Parliamentary Assembly, it will be clear to you!" ) But we are talking in this case about the draft decision of the Saeima, which is absurd - lists simple surnames, not to say what has been by post each individual and what has to do with this case. Therefore, I believe that such absurd draft decisions cannot be adopted. I understand that the current parliamentary elections are coming, and we already have a tradition that anti-Russian, anti-Russian resolutions are adopted every four years. Four years ago, an anti-Russian resolution was examined and adopted in relation to the events in Kiev, Mayan. At that time, our group proposed a much more coherent draft decision to defend Ukraine, consisting of four points: the continuity of borders; the immediate investigation of murders in Maidan; the immediate sitting at the negotiating table to discuss possible constitutional changes; and the possibility of bringing international forces into dangerous regions where any conflicts might occur. You have rejected our proposals with a great deal of self-expression. Unfortunately, today we come to what we have offered. By making any decision or law, I want to see the meaning of the dry balance. If we are talking about the protection of human rights, then, dear people, we are consistent! We protect them in all areas! We take appropriate draft decisions! We condemn the violations of human rights that take place all over the world! Otherwise, we are in favour of an invasion in another country, in favour of the destruction of the legitimate power, the execution of the President of the State, in favour of those crimes... ( Insight: “What do you have nightmared?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ On the way, wake up, please! ( Subtotal: “This is a decision of the UN Security Council! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U152	Don't talk to me, please, with the grass! Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U153	If you don't know, that's your problem. If you are in favour of the murder of the President of another country, a legitimate President, and you are in favour of the fact that the Secretary of State, that our allies are taking all this with joy, is what democracy we are talking about? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “In the words that you are talking about!” ) Colleagues! I believe that the decisions we take must be legally justified. I don't see that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U154	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U155	Dear colleagues, I will always stand up for the rule of law, justice, human rights and corruption, whatever it may have been. And this is my view of this, in my opinion, completely unfoundedly politicised issue and continuation of the pre-election circus in our country. Today we must vote in favour of the decision to impose or not sanctions on those involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case. The highly fragmented opinions on this subject and the controversial facts have led me to look into it in particular. I get acquainted with various materials: Ron Paul Institute for Peace and Property, The Wall Street Journal, BBC, I also watched video materials about and against. So in short, we are offered at least two truths. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Humanity: “As usual!” ) The first truth is that Sergey Magnitski, a Russian lawyer, discovered that Russian law enforcement staff had misappropriated state budget resources of 5.4 billion rubles, arrested, tortured, died in 2009, arrested on the 358th day. The second truth is that Sergey Magnitsky, initially an ordinary accountant, later a tax and legal consultant Hermitage Capital Management Fund, has been involved in tax evasion planning in the amount of hundreds of millions of US dollars, has organised this fund in Russia through tax-free zones, and has helped to prepare companies in the name of disabled people. It is also of the opinion that he himself has been specifically involved in the creation of tax avoidance schemes and documentation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kols: “It justifies human rights violations?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ So there are several truths in the public space, but where is the truth? A little more than this fund itself - Hermitage Capital Management Fund. One of its founders is William Brovder, a grandson of the former Secretary General of the United States. The fund has been registered in tax havens - Guernsey and Cayman Islands. This fund was one of the largest “investors” in Russia in the past, and it schemed it using the dubious legal opportunity introduced by Boris Yeltsin to deal with loans to companies’ assets. In the corrupt business and policy world of Russia at that time, in close cooperation with local oligarchs, paying cents for dollars worth assets, this fund soon became afloat and until 2005 became the largest foreign "investor" in Russia. Of course, this could not continue indefinitely, and as a result of the cases and conclusions investigated by the Russian authorities at the time, he was denied entry to Russia from 2005, there were accusations of fraud, tax evasion, and in Russia he has even been severely sentenced - he was sentenced to nine years in prison in 2013. So Brovder is the main author of the story that both Magnitski and he are the victims of Russian corruption. Now a little more than the other side. For example, there are Alexander Nekrasov's films, the first of which is once so popular and all the elites of pro-Western and out-of-fare are so pleasant The Magnitsky Act. And then there's the complete antipode of the film - the continuation of The Magnitsky Act: Behind the Scenes, which, although so popular, could not be gained, because it was boycotted in many places, because it was no longer a Russian critic, but a documentary revelation of this very complicated financial machination, and therefore the mighty of this world still try to get it out with rude russophobia or ignore. It should be recalled that Nekrasov was once popular with films critical of Russian power - about the war in Chechnya, about Alexander Litvinenko and Anna Politkovsk's murder. He has won his film about the war in Georgia and even received a medal from Georgian authorities. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Read legal documents!” ) He also began to take the first film about Magnitski as the Russian power deposing, but to answer himself and the viewer for the “white spots” he continued to collect facts. As a result, the continuation of this film (Behind the Scenes) turned out to be the opposite: no documentary evidence was found that Magnitsky had been tortured or deliberately killed (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “There is no evidence of torture because he is dead!” ); the main indictment documents on which the US Government is based for the establishment of this list have been predicated or even translated intentionally (Dep. R. Kols: “400 complaints, written by Magnitsk, are not proof?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “ European investigations used the same documents with a fake translation. The author of the final film, together with the viewers, rightly comes to the conclusion that most of the official, politically supported information does not coincide or is completely in conflict with the official documents available in the real investigation or in the public space; there is a complete lack of information on how exactly this list was drawn up and why each individual has been placed in it. The whole subject of this Magnitsky list has more to do with the global oligarch fight against or with the authorities than with the story of human rights. And the rhetorical questions are: is it true for journalists, case investigators, Nekrasov or maybe Brodder? Are everyone, some or nobody lying? The fact that Bradder has made the main accusations based solely on his own assumptions or on his own assumptions has only recently been recognised by him. On the other hand, the other accusations he used were also based on the documents of the Russian investigating authorities themselves. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Ingun, stop lying, told you!” ) Facts. The truth is that even several people have died in this matter, not just Magnitsky. It's a fact that money's gone. And it's the fact that there's a contrast between the two world views, where all the funds are good - even manifest lies and falsifying facts. But the key question is: Why should we take part in the global oligarch struggle and keep this artificial drama? In addition, our own oligarchs are still standing unfinished! Who benefits from it? This story of such a great political elusiveness is the same as with us: the inability of law enforcement organs to investigate global affairs and the carelessness of investigations. Just the same thing as us on a larger scale. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “You won’t protect all oligarchus, won’t you? It will be too hard!” In addition, the law of our country already provides for all the necessary rights and opportunities to place on the blacklist and to prevent entry into the country for any person who poses a threat to Latvia, as the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Immigration Law states: “If a foreigner is an undesirable person for the Republic of Latvia (person not grata), the Minister of Foreign Affairs shall decide on his inclusion in the list.” So he already has this opportunity and great responsibility to give a person such status, thus closing the door to Latvia without the right of appeal. I believe that the Saeima, when adopting this provision in the Immigration Law, has already stated when and how the Foreign Minister should deal with any undesirable person in our country. And conclusions. This list is for bilateral relations between the US and Russia. However, the increase in confrontation in relations between these major powers should be negative, as it increases the risk of war and makes Latvia's security worse. This vote, in my opinion, is now unnecessary and even dangerous for our country, and it is also suspiciously hyperpolitical in order to distract attention from the activities of domestic oligarchs in relation to the same compulsory procurement component. Since each of the three voting positions (for, against or abstain) can be translated into anything - not as I wish - then I will not participate in this decision at all. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Go home!” ) Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U156	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U157	Hello, brothers and sisters! I call on you to refrain from taking part in this campaign. Why? It is important to assess what this draft decision will bring to Latvia and its citizens, what benefits and losses. In addition, I believe that it is not possible at all to assess this draft decision in any way. Secondly. I call on you to be wise politicians and diplomats and to use, as the French President, Mitteran said, the opportunity to obey. ( Subtotal: “It uses it! ”) ) In this giant fight between Russia and America, where history shows that there is more economic than political motive, sooner or later these giants agree. And I think a wise politician and diplomat will take this into account before they get involved. And thirdly. I love Latvia very much and I hope that you too love Latvia. And it is unacceptable for me that our country of origin uses Latvia in some kind of political games. If this is acceptable to you, I am ashamed of you. And the last one. I am very sorry, but I have had the opportunity to finish the chess school, I have the opportunity to analyse this data. And the fact, looking at everything about how these sittings are going... Despite the fact that we understand that it is not beneficial for our Latvia and it is not necessary, we do not... The coalition decided to vote. My view is that here again - sorry, dear friends! - these hidden grey forces have taken part in this draft law (Dep. H.Abu Meri: “It’s not a bill!” ; dep. R. Kols: “It’s a decision!” )... the draft decision, despite the fact that many are well aware that we do not need it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It was good, Valdis! Come again!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U158	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U159	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that our Foreign Affairs Commission finally started to pay attention to the resolutions of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I hope that this will not only happen when Russia needs to be condemned once again. I had the honour of taking part in the debate on this resolution. The rapporteur on this issue was the head of our Social Democratic Group, the then leader, Andreas Gross from Switzerland, and I do not need to use any movies and other secondary sources to study the substance of the matter. ( Insight: How did you vote?) ) This case is one of the most serious human rights violations that have occurred in Europe in recent years and one of the best documented thanks to the colleagues of Sergey Magnitsk and many human rights defenders in Russia. There is no confusion here. This situation is documented in days and hours. We know what happened. In preparing this report, we had several discussions with our Russian colleagues, because then the Russian parliamentarians were still involved in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We also listened to Mr Broider. So there's no difference about the facts here. And, from this point of view, I cannot agree with my colleagues who are calling for this decision to be made on purely political grounds, and I cannot agree with Mrs Silverba either, because, you know, such a broad-based discussion of something there's a giant and an oligarch fight... Well, that maybe... It could be left to journalists, but we still need to build on the facts. It is important that Sergey Magnitsky was not a politician. He was not an opposition or dissident. He simply acted as a professional, representing and defending the interests of his clients. And based on the results of the audit, he discovered several schemes that resulted in his customers losing money. And most of these schemes are very well known to us (for example, purchases not from suppliers on the right, but through some intermediaries). And there were also schemes that are very similar - they relate to the issues that we discussed in the Saeima today. Unfortunately, we came to the conclusion that there was very serious evidence that people from the Russian law enforcement authorities, as they say, "roamed" these schemes. And that's why the reaction was like this. Whether Magnitsky or Bradder is guilty or they had some financial irregularities there... Well, whatever... must not kill a person in prison. If Magnitsky was really ill after several months he spent in prison and was denied medical assistance by blackmailing him and pressing him to admit... He didn't do it, he was refused help, and he's dead. And, unfortunately, the investigation that was initiated in Russia after the situation became widely known ended with nothing, because one of the suspected suspects was immediately justified and, also for the second case, it ended with nothing. Since I fully agree with the need for the international community to respond to this issue in this situation. At the same time, I... I am very disappointed by the way in which this draft decision was drawn up. I'm sorry, Mr. Kalnins, but now you don't do any serious things. It took us four years to get to this point at all. Why? Are we independent? If we really respect human rights so much, as you said, and how did Mr Cole claim here, then why did we wait? Do we have the right to set our priorities independently? And it shall come to pass, that if the Lews, when they see, made such a decision, we also need to go after. Well, that makes me have some problems... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You’re for or against?” ) Next. I would like to draw your attention to Article 18 of this resolution. Indeed, this resolution calls on the parliaments to take measures such as personal sanctions, using them as the last resort. Obviously, this is a moment ago, so that there is no dialogue there. At the same time, in accordance with the principle of the rule of law, the Assembly recommended that the persons on this list should be given the opportunity to explain in some way their evidence of their involvement in this situation. Apparently, that would be too much to ask. Because in a great hurry we have to do this. It is, of course, not binding, but I think it would be right - before it is punished, but listen to these people as far as it is possible. To be honest, Mr Kalniņš, I expected you at least to explain what these 57 people are against whom you are to propose sanctions. I know much of these names, thanks to my work around this resolution, and I have the idea of what is. Do many colleagues who will vote in favour or against this list know that? What, for example, is Kazbek Dukuzov, do you know, Mr. Kalnins? And you are proposing to impose these sanctions, however. I am most interested in the role played by the last one on this whole case, which is mentioned in this list - the leader of Chechnya Ramzan Kadirov. Because it's... I have no illusions about Mr Kadirov, but was he involved in this particular context, and was he subject to sanctions precisely in connection with this matter? There are enough other grounds, there is a lot to blame for him, to say very gently, so that... Here, in my view, the draft decision and the Foreign Affairs Commission have not done their job properly. We simply follow the example of others and follow political considerations. I am very sorry that this is the case. I will, of course, vote in favour of this draft decision - just as I voted in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This is a very serious matter. But I would not very much like this to be the only case where we really care about human rights. I remember Mr. Kalnins, what you said. That's all on the vernacular. I remember what you said, Mr. Cole. If indeed our Parliament, our Saeima, has such important human rights, then I hope we will also pay attention to other documents of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, including other standards of the Council of Europe, when discussing matters. Not only are the issues related to Russia, but also our questions - what is happening here in Latvia - and let us follow these high principles when deciding on our own draft laws. So on the one hand, of course, it is better late than ever. But I think the Foreign Affairs Commission deserves to think about its way of working. And, Mr. Kalnins, if you need some information... Yes, I was really very closely involved in this matter. You do not consider it necessary to involve me in any way. Well, if you believe that you do not need the experience of the opposition, it is your right. But I very much hope that we all drew the right conclusions from this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U160	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U161	Hello, dear colleagues! I thank Mr Šics for trying to involve my personality in the examination of this draft decision, as if I were almost responsible for the fact that the Saeima, the Latvian Parliament, has not taken such a decision for four years. I understand that it is perhaps a certain insult, because, believe or not, I speak with my conviction in all cases where I have grounds, not a story of a political group or a commission where I have to say so... And all the more, knowing the relationship in your group, I am not selling for money in any way. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “Oi, Oi, Oi!” ) But when it comes to this issue... Last time I proposed not to rush this draft decision (Dep. R.Kols: "How can this be urgent?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft decision!’ ), my reasoning was the same as in all other cases when I voted against the examination of urgent questions. There are at least two readings of urgent matters when we look at laws. The draft decision, which is urgent, which shall be placed on the agenda during the sitting, shall also be examined in this sitting and no more reading shall be required. I cannot, in particular, vote in favour of a draft decision that has been placed at the Saeima sitting, not in order, but out of order; Members have not had normal access to documents so that they can read everything. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “It is driven by the Foreign Affairs Commission! Anybody outside?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And so, too, when you read this draft decision... Thank God, I had at least one week to look at this draft decision, and I am really glad that there are quite a lot of clear messages in the draft decision. But today, Mr. Kola also lied to everyone from this troupe, because he talked not only about a ban on entering the country for persons whose Cabinet is called on to be listed, but he also said that these people would also have sanctions (i.e. the freezing of accounts) that have been put in this draft decision in the last line... with a call at European Union level... or the Cabinet of Ministers to act at this level... That is not yet the final result of this draft decision... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Nothing lied!” ) Second case. I would very much like to see many things clearer in this decision. If you can say that in 1965, one or more Dmitrij Kovtun or several Dmitrij Kovtun were born in the world, then it has been said very precisely. By entering the birth year of a person on this list, but not the date, and not even the place of birth, there is a very uncertain situation, and there will be such... You know, it might be like... You can have relationships like that in the 1990 ’ s when you put people on the money laundering list, you didn’t even know how to write their name and surname correctly. Just said, “Well! If the situation comes, we will look at it!” Therefore, my request is that we look carefully at this draft decision and get to know the reasons. And finally. If I have already mentioned my application to the SAB Director's post, then I would ask you to look carefully once again at how journalists have successfully developed this idea. First of all, the question was: “There are rumours that you want to stand for this post.” I said, “I haven’t heard such rumours.” Then the question was asked, "But if you call, you will apply?" I only said: “If Mr. Maizinis is not invited, then I join others in the competition.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U162	Thank you. Name of Member Ināra Mūrniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U163	Dear colleagues, I have two things to talk about today. My speech will be short. Today I have to listen to this debate... Parliament is a place to speak, and also a place to speak very clearly. I am both proud of this debate and very ashamed to hear some of the debateers. First of all. Yes, this vote on the draft decision in the case of Sergey Magnitsk will be political, and it will also be a matter of values. We need to make it clear what we stand for and what values we support. And it must also be said that we ourselves are able to appreciate democracy in our own country. In the last term, under the leadership of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, we launched a new tradition of public hearing. And we also called on the representatives of the Russian opposition. One of them was Vladimir Kara-Murza, who, after this speech in Latvia, was twice poisoned in recent years. We see what is happening next to us - the neighbouring country in Russia - and we must make our political assessment clear and clear. So I was ashamed to listen to the Kremlin's disinformation and lies today from this platform, the distortion of the facts and the interpretation of the facts. In this vote, we will each be able to express our appreciation for the debate that we have heard here today. Mr. Schitz! My view is clear and unambiguous: I have always supported this draft decision, the progress of this draft decision. Unlike some of the Members elected to the parliamentary committee in the oligarhu case, I do not change my opinion during one night. ( Milestones.) And the other thing. As the chair of the sitting, listening to what you said, I was very ashamed that perhaps you are trying to cover a certain point of your political action with a procedure. Yes, we have examined this draft decision in the procedure for an own-initiative proposal, which provides - if at least one Member of Parliament has reservations - for the vote on the agenda for the next sitting of the Saeima. We voted in favour because one of the Members of the Saeima had reservations. I ask this Member to give him a clear name, a name, and that was done. There you go! If we do not like the roll of order of the Saeima, which is the law on our operating principles here in Parliament, which we have all agreed on, then there is an opportunity to change it. But as long as it is in force, it must be respected. Yes, it was another time when the procedure hinders political decision making. That is my political assessment, and I say this as a Member of the Saeima. The procedure can do a lot - you can change your opinion within a single night, you can delay political decision-making. But today, this draft decision is on our agenda and we will have to be very clear. I call on Mr Viļuma to play an active role in the group of Members, which, on your own initiative, was set up for cooperation with the Russian opposition. And today, when we... I said that I have both the shame and the pride of what we are seeing here. I would like to say: Mr Viļuma, I am proud that you called for this cooperation group to be established and established. Thank you for that. I wish this group to play an active role, I wish this group also to cooperate with the Russian opposition. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr Mūrniece, we have to talk about the subject!” ) Dear colleagues! Let us not excuse the procedure when we want to hide our shameful spots in our political action! I call on everyone to vote in favour today. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U164	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U165	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Ladies and gentlemen! We could already read in the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (I quote): “At present there is no indication that Russia’s foreign policy could have a positive impact. This means that Russia’s choice in favour of confrontation and the maintenance of tension [...] is of a long-term nature.’ So we need to be patient and I am still calling for the support of a second part of Russia, not Putin, because, as I mentioned in this year's foreign debate, Russia is not only Putin and Putin is not the whole of Russia. Of course, this is a quote from Vladimir War-Murz, who, by the way, suffered twice from poison. Sooner or later, Russia's official power will have to change, as no totalitarian regime has so far existed and cannot exist forever. And with our own decisions, including those of the political ones, we can in some way, I hope, at least contribute to it. Thank you for the good words about the Group of Members in favour of Russian civil society. I must, of course, also thank the other Members because there are now only three political groups in this group (four political groups). By the way, I also call on someone from the Group of the Alliance and also from the Group of the National Alliance. Not yet, but in the near future, I hope someone will be able to join. By the way, on this list, we also had a meeting with Olga Litvinenko, who is currently living in exile, she does not live in Russia. And she had concrete suggestions that this list could and should be added to the list of the Magnitsky Law that has long been circulating. This, of course, will have to be seen sometime in the future. Pay attention to other events - talk about Iraq, the United States and something else, and various military activities, the fight against terrorism... I call you, however, to put it aside right now... But, of course, if there are initiatives relating to any other violations of human rights (by the way, in the foreign debate I mentioned what is happening in China), then there is a step forward! Dear Members, we are pushing forward draft decisions and supporting the condemnation of various violations of human rights anywhere in the world! Mrs Silver has already mentioned two versions of this story, and I will remind you that this is a classic way of propaganda trying to challenge obvious facts. By the way, Mr Cilevičs also told us very convincingly that we have nothing to doubt here about the merits of this case. And I would also like to thank Mr Kūtra for his opposition to this draft decision last week, however, because there was obviously a week of time that allowed Mrs Silverba to prepare this excellent speech, on which you just had the opportunity to make sure. And indeed, we are now seeing that Mrs Silver (maybe with another supporter) is welcome to the SAMAN party. Good luck in further political action! In any case, as I said before, I thank Mr Cilevič for voting in favour of this draft decision. I would remind you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a representative of the executive power, and in this case we really need a political decision, and that is why the Saeima must be involved in this matter. So I'm also glad about the Law of Magnitsk... in this case, the progress of the draft decision. And I hope that we will finally join Lithuania and Estonia in this regard, because these politically responsible decisions have long been taken there. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U166	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U167	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Indeed, the case of torture and murder of Sergey Magnitsky is one of the best documented cases of human rights violations. Books have been written about it and reports have been made. Mrs. Silver! Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe... Mrs. Silver? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Do not listen!” ) under the leadership of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Andreas Grossa (representing, among other things, the socialist groups) prepared a report, preventing the impunity of the murderers of Magnitsk. I can give you this document, because there are very specific documents, evidence and evidence here to prove that Magnitski was tortured and killed. And this torture and murder involved certain officials of the home system, named after them, who are on this list, on which we will immediately decide. And, honourable colleagues, if we are talking about impunity, I would like to comment a little on Mr Nanozol's recommendation to obey us. You know, Mr. Nunozole, this time we have a situation where we definitely do not need to listen. Adopt sanctions and restrictive measures against the murderers of Magnitsky and those involved in corruption - this is our moral duty. And you know why? Unfortunately, there has been evidence and evidence that part of this money, whose connection to corruption was discovered by Magnitsky, went through our country, Latvia, and the banks. We have a moral duty to vote in favour of this list today also because many Russian citizens, both political opposition and civil society, have asked us not to allow the opportunity that the elite of the corrupt Russian regime, Putin's regime, enjoys the best of both worlds. They can easily steal from Russia and then enjoy the benefits of the Western world by living an elegant life, sending their children to good schools, driving a luxury car, wearing designer clothes and so on. It is our duty not to allow this. Russian opponents have said many times: “If Western world fails, Russia will never change!” Let us certainly vote in favour and support this decision. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U168	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U169	Dear colleagues, The more I listen to the debate, the more I have a question. Perhaps one of the authors of the draft decision remembers when the Magnitsky Law was passed in the United States? When were sanctions against Russia imposed in the United States? Perhaps someone remembers that we had a foreign policy debate recently, where the Foreign Minister also spoke, who did not mention with any word the need for an urgent decision in relation to the Magnitsky case. Perhaps someone had a question why not send a request to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the delay in preparing appropriate recommendations and recommendations to Parliament? The draft decision in this case is a political act, not a legal act. So any political decision... One of the requirements for any political decision is its relevance and relevance to specific events. The only concrete event that today is and could be linked to the Magnitsk case is the presidential elections in Russia. No other event is there from such an event that would change the attitude of the Magnitsky case. I would like to say once again that I am not talking about the substance of the matter. I am referring to the draft political decision. The second question is topical. First question... The second question is, forgive me, about Latvia's political interests from such a step, which is very related to the first question. If we were really interested in this case, not just to show our attitude outside, then it would be a reaction four years ago. That's the point one. Two points. We would perhaps also start reacting to the list just published by the United States Ministry of Finance. Perhaps it would also be necessary to supplement this proposed list of sanctioned persons with the 200 and 10 or 20 names that have appeared there? Why not? Then it would be a bold, political step, which would also have some authority in the world. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “A very good idea!” ) Today we are with the... in addition to being very late. That is why I think that, in this case, this draft decision is not only hasty, it is very late. But if it's late and it doesn't matter what it's trying to be, then I think it's wrong and it's not logical - to support this kind of decision. And more. I remember very well that we listened to two foreign ministers in the European Affairs Commission. Two. When it came to sanctions against Belarus. There went talking about economic sanctions, there were firms, there were natural persons. In one case, the former Minister, before Mr. Rinkēvičs, would not call his name, didn't even know what it was about, either about the companies or about the people there. Mr. Rinkēvičs, get off the hat! - were able to justify why that or another figure was. And, by the way, he was also the person who supported the exclusion of the names of some people from the list that did not meet Latvia's national interests. And achieved it. Here we do not even listen to the Foreign Ministry's opinion. Perhaps here too, as Mr Cilevič said, there are very different names, and perhaps not everyone should be subject to these sanctions. Maybe it's also a question of research? Because we very quickly, very quickly, want to achieve what we have not done when we have to do it. However, I call for this draft decision not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U170	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U171	Yes, Mrs. Chigan, I will not be silent! These rights too. First of all, we may look at what is happening in our own country with regard to children's rights, and then we come to other things! My children are now taken to America. Not our country is interested, not America! 40 percent of the legal cases that we have here do not end with anything. Request - look at you first and only then look at others! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Chigane: “It’s exactly that way, Mr. Nunozol!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U172	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U173	On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I call for the vote on this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U174	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the call for sanctions for those involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 7, for - 3. Decision adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U176	Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting was examined. But I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today. On questions from Members to Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Ašeraden (Nos 377, 378, 379, 380, 381, 382, 3885, 386, 387, 388, 389, 390, 395 and 397). The written replies received are not satisfied, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member of the Minister of Health of Zarina, Morozova, Ribakova, Cilevičs and Potapkin “On the implementation of the e-health project and its compliance with basic basic requirements”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. On the question of Member of the Minister of Health of Zarina, Adamson, Tretjaka, Zuvėv and Nikonovas “On provision of the information system required for the implementation of the conditions for the provision of the services provided by the Health Care Financing Act”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. On the question of Member Zariņa, Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Mirska and Klementyev, the Prime Minister for Health, Maris Kučinskis, about the introduction and development of e-health. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. On the question of Member Viļuma, Šics, Freezers, Krumins and Platoper, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis “On Elections of the rectorate of Daugavpils University”. The written responses received are not satisfied, and the Minister informs that due to the planned work meetings it will not be possible to arrive today to give an oral answer. Consequently, the answers to Members' questions will not be available today. Questions have been put to Members. Members Morozov, Orlov, Jakimov, Zujev and Ribakov submitted the question “In relation to the period of operation of the phytosanitary control point at the border crossing point “Riga International Airport” and the consequences of this violation”, which is submitted to the Minister for Agriculture to reply. Members Viļums, Laisver, Ruks, Šics and Smiltēns submitted the question “On the Passage System in Border Authorities”, which we submit to the Minister for the Interior for their response. Members Zarins, Orlovs, Arthur Rubiks, Raimonds Rubiks and Tutins presented the question “On airBaltic investments for the Pilot Academy in airBaltic Training,” which we submit to the Minister of Transport. Members Orlov, Ribakov, Urbanovich, Morozov and Potapkins have submitted a question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the remuneration of the new manager of Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital”. Name for motivation to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U177	Dear colleagues, Last week, we and the general public learned about the remuneration of the new Chairman of the Board of the Riga Eastern Clinical University Hospital. The salary has doubled, although the increase in pay has not been received by doctors who come to work every day and save the health of patients. No targets have been achieved, the hospital closes every year with millions of euros in debt. We want to know why such remuneration was granted to the new Chairman of the Board; how the Ministry of Health intends to deal with other members of the Board working in similar hospitals - P.Stradiņa Clinical University Hospital and Children Clinical University Hospital; and what was the competition if the new Chairman of the Board...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U178	Mr Orlov, your motivation is over. That's a minute. Thank you. Members Pimenov, Arturs Rubiks, Tutin, Morozovs and Potapkins submitted the question “On the implementation of the task given in the Law “Amendments to the Law on Education”. The word for motivation to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U179	Colleagues! The Education Law contains a task for the Cabinet of Ministers to determine, by 31 August of this year, the minimum number of students allowed in class and class group at the level of secondary education in general education institutions. The criteria for determining this number are still unknown. Thus, founders, administrators, educators, pupils and their parents do not know whether from 1 September the state will continue to fund those educational institutions where according to the Cabinet of Ministers there will not be enough students. We ask Members whether the Cabinet adopts these rules within a reasonable time; how continuity in the education process will be ensured; how many schools and specifically which schools will be affected by this regulation. We're waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U180	Thank you. The question is referred to the Minister of Education and Science. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! The name of the notification to Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U181	Dear colleagues! On the basis of the principle “time for work, time for rest” I informed that today 18.30 p.m. at the ice hall “Kurbads” will take place in a musically political supercombat hockey between the Saeima team and the musician team. Members of the Saeima, Janis Dombrava, Gaidis Berzins, Romanas Nadiņš, Walters Dambe, Viktors Valainis, Ainars Latkovskis, Andris Morozovs, two ministers - the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice -, our former colleagues Andrejs Elksniņš and Vents Armands Krauklis, as well as other local government members. Andris Ērglis, Varis Vētra, Jānis Apeinis, Mareks Americas, Kaspars Breidaks, Kaspars Bindemanis and others will play in the music team. I invite everyone to come here today and support family and friends in the hall “Kurbads” at Lidluka Street 37. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U182	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U183	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Inesis Boķis, Ints Dālderis, Andrejs Judins, Ivans Klementjevs, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Romanas Mežeckis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Arvīds Platopers, Artis Rasmanis, Kārlis Sergeants, Edwards Smiltens, Jūlija Stepanenko and Juris Vectirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-08-PT12-464-U184	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
