ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the meeting room so that we can start the sitting of the Saeima on 26 April 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking for the draft law on the Pedvāle Art Park Law to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: “Yes, yes! ” ) Do Members have objections? Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law of the Pedvāle Art Park” to be on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 69, for - 1, for - 3. Decision adopted. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking for the draft Law on Gardening to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Are there any objections? There is no objection. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Law on Freedom Monument and Riga Brothers Cemetery” (No 32/Lp12) until 18 May 2018. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Riga Stradins University”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the General Education Act” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Mr. Krumin, will you speak against? So “no” has applied to speak to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U2	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! After yesterday's meeting of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, I did not have the conviction that this issue was urgent and that it could be included in the sitting of the Saeima today. There were even more doubts as to whether these two large-scale draft laws would be developed qualitatively in such a short period of time to guide them to the first reading in the Saeima. What can I say first of all? That the presentation of the new amendments was only shown yesterday in our Commission. To discuss and ask questions about these changes, we only had 45 minutes left. In principle, we asked only questions for 45 minutes without waiting for answers. I believe that these issues directly affect the future of our children. Undisputed and without questions to all (I repeat - to all!) on matters of interest to us, we cannot move these amendments forward today, and I therefore call for a 'no' vote! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U3	Mr Aldis Adamovičs has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U4	Good morning, honourable President. Good morning, colleagues! I will remind you once again of what I said last Thursday. In order to allow the Commission to listen to all proposals, to analyse them and to take decisions, the Commission decided yesterday, by a majority vote, to ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading, and there will therefore also be an appropriate deadline for the submission of proposals. And I would remind you that this is not only about the six-year-olds, so it is about learning first class from the age of six, but about the regulatory framework for the organisation of educational content and educational work, about the education and social correction classes, about special education, about the establishment of the school year, about the establishment of holidays and about the status... Thus, the issues of secondary schools, state Gymnasiums and many other issues that are essentially related to the new content based on competences. So yesterday's commission meeting... At the request of education managers, school directors, LIVA and other organisations... They asked for a more rapid examination of these draft laws in order to make it clear when, within what time limits, which rules enter into force, but which are carried out or transferred, or are excluded from the law at all. So I ask you today to support these draft laws at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 47, against - 34, refrain - 2. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ‘ Varia Krūmiņš, a Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Members! It is precisely because Aldis Adamovičs mentioned all those things and a wide range of issues that have not been debated that I am calling for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U7	Will one of the Members speak for? None of the Members apply to speak in favour. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 31, for - 3. Decision adopted. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity invites the draft decision “On the admission of Jeļizaveta Polstjanaya to the Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia” to be on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Smiltēns, Šics, Ruks, Viļums and Freeers are asking to include the draft law “Amendment to the State Funded Pensions Law” on the agenda of the sittings. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U8	Good morning, colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Today, the calendar of the Association of the Regions of Latvia is marked by a day of 50 days, i.e. almost two months since we presented the amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” and the amendment to the Law on State Occupational Pensions on 6 March this year. Do You Recall? Of course, both of these draft laws were rejected by the FAO, by the Unity and by the National Association. Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” were voted by only 15 Members, abstained - 50; amendments to the State Funded Pensions Law on - 38, against - 1 and abstained - 48. Now these two issues, colleagues, are on the agenda again today. Only this time amendments to the Law on Pensions, namely the possibility to inherit a pension... Or rather it would be a benefit for the surviving spouse, a coalition party, and they will be driven at the impact rate. We remember: 50 days ago, rejected! Currently, a public initiative within the framework of the project manbalss.lv has been submitted for inheritance of savings of the second pension level, and 10 156 citizens of the Republic of Latvia have signed for it. We were back at the point where we were almost two months ago, or 50 days ago. Colleagues, if time is changing attitude so radically - either close to the elections or some other thing - then today we will remind you of the inheritance of the second level of pension savings. I stress: there is an initiative signed by 10 156 citizens, which we also presented on 6 March and received rejection from you (not included in the agenda at all). And today, in the context of this public initiative, we are once again presenting these amendments, which we had already prepared at that time to make it easier for you. If the first 50 days are supported, then we are also submitting these. What do they foresee? Amendment to the State Funded Pensions Law provides that a member of the funded pension scheme who has reached or will reach the retirement age may add to the pension capital of the surviving spouse a part of the accumulated funded pension capital accumulated up to the date of death of the participant. Colleagues! I call for support for this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U9	Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? And that's it. So Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 22, for - 45. Draft legislation is not on the agenda of the sitting. The agenda for the sitting will start to be examined. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law submitted by the Legal Commission “Amendments to the Law “On State Compensation for Victims” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Assistance provided by the State” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Saeima Election Law” submitted by Member Viļuma, Ruka, Šica, Krumina and Smiltēna be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent times, we have heard a lot of discussions about the fact that Latvian citizens in exile should be given the opportunity to vote not only on the electoral district of Riga, but also on the electoral district from which they say they come. During the discussions, the Central Electoral Commission points out that this is difficult to ensure; it is by nature impossible to do so. Because, for example, in every embassy... In different parts of the world... five election boxes cannot be provided, lists can not be delivered, and so on. It's all very complicated. And you can agree! As a result, all Latvian citizens abroad will vote only on the Riga electoral district list. However, I think we can eliminate this injustice at least here in Latvia. This proposal provides that each polling district should have at least one polling station in which a resident of Riga or Liepaja or Valmiera, respectively... one polling station may go and vote in favour of a list more favourable to him. Of course, it is most topical in Riga, where many people have arrived either because of work or study or health problems. And also this possibility of voting a few days before the elections on this issue... This problem is not really solved. I also had discussions with the head of the Central Electoral Commission, Mr Cimdar, and at that time he supported: in each electoral district, this could be the case. This does not make the electoral process more expensive. This would be an opportunity to really activate the voters and make us have a greater percentage of those who voted. The proposal was slightly extended during the discussions. As you can see, it is proposed that such polling stations be set up here in every city of national importance. For example, almost 100 kilometres from Rezekne to Daugavpils. And so, in my opinion, it would also be fair, for example, in Liepaja and Ventspils to provide such an opportunity. I think that, of course, this matter could be discussed in more detail in the Commission. If the responsible commission and the Central Electoral Commission consider that there are too many nine polling districts, then they could be five polling districts, namely one or at least one polling station in Riga in each polling district, because, as I said, it would be more relevant in Riga. I think the committee responsible could decide very constructively whether this should be done for these elections, i.e. by electing the 13th Saeima... If, however, due to any argument put forward by the Central Electoral Commission, this cannot be done so quickly, it could at least be implemented in the 14th Saeima elections. I call for support for this proposal and for it to be passed on to the commission responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U11	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to Saeima Election Law” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 12, against - 64, abstaining - 8. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on commercial secrecy presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the alienation of real estate for public needs – for the establishment of the state border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Tax and Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on personal data processed for law enforcement purposes presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” presented by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Pedvāle Art Park Law presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member has applied to speak about” Einars Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U12	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law was drafted by a working group of representatives from the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Talsi Municipality, as well as by the association “Pedvāle” and Mr Feldbergs, who is the owner of the complex of these manors. Why a special law? Because this is a unique complex of historical, cultural and historical values in one place... manor buildings, art values, both natural values and landscape areas. In fact, it is an open-air museum, where contemporary works of art are exhibited, but it is not exactly the Law of Museums, and therefore a special law should be required. This place is so unique that, to a large extent, the European Landscape Convention has also inspired inspiration from the landscape value of this place. And that is why I call for support for this draft law - both to be passed on to the commissions and then to be discussed by the Saeima at first reading. This law will guarantee these places and the future preservation of these values, because now there will be an art, cultural and educational centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U13	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - reports by the Saeima Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 156 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the savings of the 2nd pensionable level”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Dzintārs Zaķis from 24 April to 26 April of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Dzintaras Zakis requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 24 April to 26 April of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Ainars Mežulis on 19 April this year. The Saeima Bureau received an application from Ainārs Mežulis, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 19 April this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The agenda section “Review of the draft decisions on admission to the citizenship of Latvia on special merits for the benefit of Latvia”. On the agenda - draft decision “On admission of Jeļizaveta Polstjanaya to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”. Member Juris Vectirāns on behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U14	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! On March 12 of this year, the parliamentary Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Alignity received an application from Jeļizaveta Polstjanaya, a citizen of the Russian Federation, requesting to receive her from Latvia. In his application in 2003 in Jurmala, the applicant of citizenship indicates that he wishes to link his future life to Latvia and represent our country in international competitions. The application is accompanied by the consent of the Russian citizens of Jelgava's parents that their minor daughter be admitted to the citizenship of Latvia. Together with this application, the Commission received letters of recommendation from the Latvian Gymnasium Federation and the Latvian People's Sports Association, inviting to support sportsmen's desire to acquire Latvian citizenship. Support is also expressed by the Sports and Youth Administration of the Riga City Council Department of Education, Culture and Sport, indicating that it would promote the international recognition of our country in art gymnastics, as well as activate the interest of young athletes in this sport. You can get acquainted with Jeļizaveta’s sporting achievements by reading her autobiography. I will just add that she is now the Latvian champion of art training, who has also participated in a number of international competitions with good results. Dear Members, I will draw your attention to the fact that these achievements are a strong testimony to Jeļizaveta's already existing achievements for Latvia - for Latvia! - and we also hope in the future to expect excellent results when she represents our country in high-ranking international competitions and Olympics. At the Commission meeting, Members met with the applicant for citizenship and her parents, as well as heard representatives of the Olympic Committee of Latvia and the Latvian Winding Federation about the granting of citizenship to a sportsman. Aldons Vrubļevskis, President of the Latvian Olympic Committee, invited the Commission to support the granting of citizenship to Jeļizaveta Polstjana. The members of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity supported the admission of a sportsman to the citizenship of Latvia for special merits for the benefit of Latvia. The candidate has given a promise of trust to the Republic of Latvia in the Commission. Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Commission, I invite you to support the draft decision of the Saeima - to accept Jeļizavet Polstjanaju as a citizen of Latvia for special merits for Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the acceptance of Jeļizaveta Polstjanaya as a citizen of Latvia for special merits for Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 2, for - 7. Congratulations to Latvian citizen Jeļizavēts Polstjanajs! (Applause) The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima in the Committee on Control of the Nordic Investment Bank. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U16	Hello, colleagues! In accordance with the agreement approved by the Saeima between Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway and Sweden on the Nordic Investment Bank, Latvia as a member should appoint a representative for work in the Nordic Investment Bank's Control Committee, as the mandate of the current representative of Karina Korna (currently known as Ploka) expires on 31 May 2018. It is therefore necessary to appoint a new representative. In line with the Minister of Finance's call for this representative, we led Janis Vucanas, Chairman of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call for his candidacy to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U17	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U18	In the debate, I would like to point out one interesting aspect. John Wuzan should probably start working in this committee with a letter from the President. In a letter to Ināra Mūrniece, I quote a representative: "Member States representatives carry out these posts in rotational order. At the moment, Remo Holmers is representing Estonia in the Committee. ... therefore, we ask the Estonian Parliament to appoint a representative... “ So he appeals to our Saeima president for an Estonian representative. In my opinion, this is a certain disrespect for the Baltic States. That would be what I call on Mr Vucana to - to point out the difference between Estonia and Latvia if they have not yet noticed it, or at least let the copy-paste work a little more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U19	Does anyone else want to speak in the debate? I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima in the Committee on the Control of the Nordic Investment Bank! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Before we go to the examination of draft laws, honourable colleagues, five parliamentary committees have asked for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Five Commissions?” ) The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” to be included on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law "Pedvāle Art Park Law" drawn up by the Commission and to examine it at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Whether Members have objections (Interface) against this amendment to the agenda? Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law on the Pedvāle Art Park Law for the first reading without re-examination by the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - 1, for - 1. Decision adopted. The draft law will be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. The Legal Commission shall request the draft law prepared by the Commission “Amendments to the Law “On State Compensation for Victims”” to be examined at the sitting of the Saeima at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission shall request the draft law prepared by the Commission “Amendments to the Law on State Provided Legal Assistance” to be reviewed at the sitting of the Saeima at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking to include in the agenda the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days”” and to consider it at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. So on the agenda, we're looking at the draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”, first reading. The Commission proposes that it be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U20	Good morning, honourable Members! I will say: it is not that by this draft law we are trying to correct the law before any political activity, that is, before the elections. This bill in the commission... This idea has been circulating for some seven years. There was active communication both at the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Finance. We tried to find that ideal model: although there would be no significant fiscal impact on the budget, fairness would be. We also worked very hard with our foreign colleagues. One of the questions was how this model works with Lithuanians and Estonians. This is about widows' pensions. I think colleagues already know that the main idea of the bill is widows' pensions. Already when we started working at the 12th Saeima, we agreed in the Commission that this would be the main amendment to the law “On State Pensions”. Thus, we can say that one of the social guarantees that exist in almost all countries of the European Union is also in Latvian legislation. Don't move us smoothly - ministers changed, editorial changes changed. Communication with ministries was difficult. However, this week we received opinions from both the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Finance. They are different. We need to read them -- they're very interesting. But most importantly, the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Finance have no claims against the progress of the bill. The Ministry of Welfare said: “Yes, we support this draft law and ask that their main main fiscal burden be shifted to the next year.” The Commission agreed, drafted its own version. Let me tell you the point, because I think very many people are interested in it. I would like to say that it will not require much from the budget either. First. We are talking about people living together - two pensioners. This is one of the mandatory conditions. Living together, receiving two pensions, but one of the pensioners dies, and then the surviving pensioner will be entitled to benefit. I would like to remind you that it will be a benefit that will not be taxed. The entitlement to benefits will be equal to 50 per cent of the pension granted to the deceased spouse for a period of one year, twelve months. That is the main condition. We are not interested in a person’s private life, that is, how much he has lived in that marriage, the main thing for them to be together at that time. Perhaps it will encourage pensioners who live in a civil marriage to marry and legalise their relationships in order to support each other even after such a sad family event. Yes, we had a lot of contacts with the public organisation, with the Latvian Pensioners Federation. The main thing is that a person who loses his/her mate in the first months feels not only discomfort because he/she has lost a large and important part of his/her life, but he/she has depression and then those bills appear. The communal services and everyone else who collects money are not interested in how a person feels, the main thing is to have paid invoices. So for stability... there must also be financial support. The Commission calculated that the Czech model could be taken over, which is not so impressive, but is still very supportive. It should be noted that our legislation is that the rights of succession can last for up to 12 months and more. This means that if a pensioner wants to change something in his life, for example, to sell property registered in the name of the deceased spouse, he will still have to wait 12 months. That is why we are asking for a 12-month deadline to be included in the law. It is clear that we in the Commission want this deadline to be extended to 24 months and even to 36 months. In many European countries, such as Luxembourg, Belgium, they can afford to maintain a very good model so that the difficult life cycle is not so painful. But at the moment, the Minister for Welfare and the Minister for Finance do not give us permission. Today, the fiscal authorities were interested in how this draft law, what impact... Yesterday there was a commission meeting... Yes, there was a commission meeting on Tuesday, where representatives of the Ministry claimed that the budget would endure and that internal redistribution would be compensated. There are no obstacles to this draft law being examined today and adopted at final reading. But that's what we're going to decide really later. For money. Clearly, everyone is interested in how much it will cost. Next year's widows' pensions will need two... Oh, I'm sorry... eight million and then 12 million. The social budget currently has almost half a billion surpluses. I think that there will be no major impact on our fiscal environment. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent and supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U21	So we must vote for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U22	Thank you. The Commission is asking for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U24	Thank you. I look at the result of our vote: 86 Members - in favour. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I understand that all Members are aware of the importance of this issue. And I understand that we have no problem with our opinions either. They have been tabled, they can be read, and the committee that drafted this draft law is asking for its adoption today at second reading as well. You know, almost 250,000 pensioners who live in marriage listen to the radio transmission from the Saeima today and want its subject to be terminated once, considered and so on. In order not to give everyone else the opportunity to try to raise political capital at the expense of this subject, I would say that all the members of the Commission representing all the groups have unanimously supported this draft law. We realized that it was not the merit of one political group or one party, but the common merit of the whole of the 12th Saeima. Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U25	Thank you. Do Members have objections to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the parliamentary committee? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “Yes, there are objections!” ) Are there any objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “Yes!” ) Mr. Viļuma... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please turn on the microphone for Mr. Wolum. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Why are you doing this?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ So there are objections. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “10 minutes!” ) The Saeima is sitting. ( Intercretion: “Uow! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U26	Yeah... On behalf of the Commission, I understand that one another's rating is so low that he wants to raise his rating at the expense of widows... ( Milestones.) The Commission... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U27	Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U28	Yeah. Thank you. Please submit your proposals by 10 a.m. and review today at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U29	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 a.m. Are there any other proposals regarding the deadline for submission, Mr Viļuma? Please turn on the microphone for Juris Wolums!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U30	I understand that this is a very good idea and, of course, we support it; we call for this draft law to be examined as a matter of urgency. We also support, we are in favour, but we call for it to be adopted at second reading at the next sitting. That is why I think it would be a good deadline for tabling proposals: today to 17.00. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You have a group, go and work!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U31	Okay. So there are two proposals on the deadline for submitting proposals. Let us first vote on the following. We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions”” on 26 April 2018 at 17.00! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 7, against - 77, refraining from - 1. This deadline for the submission of proposals is not supported. The deadline set by the Commission therefore remains in force - April 26 at 10 a.m. this year. And the debate is today's sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U33	Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U34	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Taking into account ongoing developments in the Latvian financial and banking system, amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing are under consideration in the procedure of urgency - second, final, final, reading. The proposal is from the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. The Commission is supported and editorially clarified.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U36	2. is our colleague Igora Pimenova's proposal. Unfortunately, it has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U37	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U38	Good morning, dear Chair! Dear colleagues, The draft law is a prohibition to initiate or continue a transaction or to conduct an occasional transaction in a shell formation if it is consistent with the statutory features, i.e. if the company does not actually carry on an economic activity or if the law of the country where the legal entity is established does not provide for an obligation to submit financial statements. In support of the ban in principle, I believe that it is necessary to specify this ban in order to be able to apply this weapon selectively, justifiedly, and not as a means of mass destruction to the detriment of both the perpetrators and the innocent. First case to be specified. By applying this prohibition provision, Latvia inevitably interferes in the European Union regulatory area, because European Union legislation creates a level playing field for business in all Member States. Therefore, it cannot be that a company established in the Netherlands, for example, can operate in Poland, but cannot operate in Latvia. The same applies to the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, which together form the single European market and which cannot be separated from Latvia. In order for the ban on shell companies laid down in the draft law to be in line with European regulation, I propose that the ban on shell companies established outside the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation should apply. Outside, this means that practically the entire world's offshore area is under the influence of a new ban, but within the European Union, there must be a ban regulation that sets the same rules for commercial activities. Please support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U39	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U40	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Partly opposing what Veiko Spolitis said that, given what is happening in our economy and financial markets, we need this law... In my opinion, if politicians in less mixed business activities and some long-term strategic goals were set, the results would be much, much better. As I said, speaking and debating at first reading, there was, in principle, no need to change the law so quickly, because the shell formations, the shell banks, had already been defined - which, in what way and what they are doing to combat money launderers. Unfortunately, we now have an amusing situation: we are considering amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism, but as a next step we will look at the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement". And if all coalition partners unanimously believe that we must fight against shell formations that, as I said, were adopted a year ago... then, according to the future bill, the offshore companies will be able to participate in purchases that are quite amusing. On the one hand, we fight against money launderers, but on the other, we allow not quite honest business representatives to participate in business activities in Latvia. If the rules are the same, then the rules are the same for all. I don't understand why Latvians have used to run forward on all trains, to accept any norms... Yeah, the same shell formations... What is the essence of Mr Pimenova's proposal? For the rules and restrictions of this draft law to apply to shell formations located outside the borders of the European Union and the European Economic Area. In the Commission, we did not receive a reply: what will happen if any Dutch shell structure cooperates with any Latvian company? And the most important thing. Colleagues, think about this: To whom once again must a warrant be given from the coalition that we are destroying the business of non-residents with our activities? The nature of the law is very simple: the fight against money launderers and potential terrorist financiers. But we are destroying the activities of non-residents, with the result that all non-residents go to the Czech Republic, to Austria, to Hungary, Cyprus or Luxembourg. We let all this business past us so that we can only report to a “old brother”: “Look! We have done everything!” Instead of defending our regulatory framework in the negotiations and proving that we have everything in order. Question: "How is it done?" I hope that the planned audit of the FCTC will reveal its shortcomings in meeting the regulatory requirements. I call for support for Mr Pimenova's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U41	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U42	Mr. Adamson! Unfortunately, you seem to live on the principle of "money does not die", although we now have to look directly at the origin of money when we make these adjustments. And when we are talking about the proposal put forward by Mr. Pimenova, it should be remembered that in the Commission, representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service said very clearly that we do not discriminate against anyone on the territorial basis, on the grounds of nationality. So we're looking... take this particular risk into account... Thus, in this case, financial institutions make a very clear distinction between simple shell companies and particularly high-risk customers. At least 44 percent of such particularly high-risk clients in Latvia. And that's why we're dealing with these particularly high-risk customers. Consequently, I call on you not to support Mr Pimenova's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U43	The name of Member John Adamson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U44	Dear colleagues, Obviously, Mr Spolitis is based on his life experience when it comes to whether or not money stinks. Nothing else can I say. Before you come to the debate, Mr Spolitis, I call on you to know the content of the law in force, namely what requirements it sets and what the relevant amendments make. And then you can come and with full breast to prove something, not to pull out... try to remove something from context. We need to talk about specific laws, not what you think or don't think about one or the other, or we need to discuss them with third colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U45	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U46	In his address, Mr Spolitis actually changed the subject of the debate. We're talking... we are not talking about possible discrimination. I stress that, by supporting the ban in this wording and extending it to shell formations established outside Latvia, we nevertheless intervene within the European Union in the regulatory area established by European Union law, and it would be useful to establish common requirements for shell formations that are the subject of today's concern throughout the single market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U47	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something before the vote? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 56, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U48	3. - a proposal from my colleague, Igora Pimenova. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U49	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U50	Specification of the prohibition.2. I am convinced that the wording of the ban proposed in the draft law is very general, unspecific. This creates space for broad interpretations with far-reaching consequences. Listen, please: Prohibit relations with shell formation if this is appropriate. This means that not only a bank client, but also the founders and clients of the client, fall within the scope of the ban. For example, if a bakery established in Latvia makes payments to the beneficial owner, which corresponds to the features of the ban, the bank creates a relationship with this beneficial owner and therefore there is an obligation not to pay the bakery or an obligation to terminate relations with this bakery at all. Such a norm will provoke the initiation of witch hunts, limit customer retention and attract credit institutions. And what about the Latvian rating of Doing Business? Will it enhance the authority of Latvia in this rating? I therefore propose that the prohibition should not apply to legal entities other than shell formations, but whose founders or counterparties may be shell formations. This does not alter the idea of this draft law at all and is fully in line with the aim of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U51	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U52	Good morning, colleagues! I just wanted to remind you of two characteristics of the shell company. One feature is that it is established in a country where no annual accounts are required, and the other feature is that the shell company does not carry out any economic activity. Mr Pimenova's proposal contains clear indications that the company is doing business. Hence, the shell of this company cannot be placed on the company list. Since I believe that it is enough with existing legislation and this proposal is simply unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U53	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U54	Unfortunately, the honourable Member, Sergeant, carefully listened to my explanation and to the example I mentioned in my first speech in the debate on proposal 3. Of course, if a bank client carries out an economic activity, he will certainly not be subject to the ban, but the wording of the ban is as follows: the relationship is prohibited by the formation of the shell if it is relevant to the characteristics. You see, it's not that the formation of the shell is definitely a client. It is clear from this very vague wording that any environment in which the bank's client develops is transparent and analysable - whether there's something outside the shell structure. This does not appear to be accurate, imperative and absolute, but it can be interpreted and, as a result, banks or those that supervise banks can also be considered suspicious of relationships that are being developed for bank clients with their partners. This was an example, and I am asking for this explanation and my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U55	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add before the vote? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 60, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U56	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U57	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U58	5. - the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U59	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U60	Hello, brothers and sisters! I call on you to support the proposal made by my party member, at the same time I call on you to go out of a certain degree of apathy and indifference. Every year, 10 thousand people leave Latvia. Twenty's leaving, ten's coming back. One Madona. The rapporteur recently announced at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs that we had lost 90 billion due to these migrants. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Be in your land!” ) Four to 14 billion every year! Well, let's get out of the apathy! I propose to compete, dear friends, with proposals on how we can create new jobs. I'm also calling Wyko to compete and we're not going to... to which good thing... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “The ethics commission will have to go!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U61	I call you to talk about... Mr Kalnozol, I am calling for the proposal to be discussed! Please talk about the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U62	... our economy is developing... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “On the proposal! Mrs. Moore!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U63	Mr Kalnozol, please have a debate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U64	That is why I have a great request to support Mr Putra's proposal, but at the same time come with proposals like we... so that we do not forget that our economy is going to recover, and to understand that tax decities depend on the economy, not on how we will break it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U65	Mr. Nunozol! This specific proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U66	And salaries for teachers, doctors have...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U67	Dear colleagues, I call for a debate on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U68	I invite you to go out of this apathy and sort out the economy!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U69	Thank you. That's it. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please address the specific proposals. The speaker therefore supports the proposal. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U70	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U72	7. - our colleague Igora Pimenova's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U73	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U74	Dear colleagues, I recognise that the wording of my proposal is not good and the criticism I heard during the committee meeting is deserved. That's what I admit. However, I take this opportunity to justify the need for another amendment to be made in order for the ban to function wisely. Specification of the prohibition. Under the fourth part of the draft law, the transaction shall terminate under the terms of Article 43 of the existing law. But it is not possible to limit the transfer of money to the accounts of these shell formations that are to be closed by Article 43. With this, we push money away from Latvia. Where a financial institution terminates its business relationship with a client on its own initiative by closing the relevant client accounts, it shall transfer the client’s cash in accordance with the instructions of the client. And then three options. First. Transfer to the same customer's current account with another credit institution (this is self-reimbursement). Option two. Transfer to the account from which the funds were previously received (this is a refund). And the third option. Cost in cash if the customer does not have a current account with another credit institution or it is not possible to make a transfer to himself. But it should be noted that repayment back - it is not a viable norm, it is particularly weak if the amount is very large; there may be a lot of senders, so it is not easy for the bank to split the amount to be repaid by sinks to repay it back. But it can also be that the sender no longer exists, because it can be abolished before that. Cash payments can be very unfavourable for a bank because there are provisions that indicate that cash transactions increase the bank’s risk level and only the transfer of the same client’s current account to another credit institution is postponed. But domestically all accounts of this shell will be closed and only accounts will be executed abroad. As a result, the current procedure, as well as that provided for in the draft law, creates a straight corridor for the eviction of money from the state. I understand that it is not easy to take from my story all these detailed instructions, procedures, descriptions, but I will quote quite precisely what is written in the existing law. In its report on banking activities in Latvia, the FCTC confirms that foreign customer deposits decreased by 12 percent in 2017 and stabilised at the EUR 8.1 billion level at the end of the year. So fell by one billion. If the regulation and ban provided for in the draft law are implemented, there is a high risk that even more money simply flows out of Latvia. The regulation, as I said, can be ejected from Latvia's money, which could be used domestically for lending, buying goods or paying taxes and serve the Latvian economy rather than any foreign economy. The rule should therefore be as follows: when concluding the relevant customer accounts, the credit or financial institution shall transfer the funds in these accounts in accordance with the instructions of the client. Point. The Commission did not accept the proposal to submit such a proposal. On the other hand, I withdrew my proposal for the final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U75	So Proposal No 7 is withdrawn if? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Pimenov: “7!” ) Thank you. Therefore, Proposal No 7 has been withdrawn. I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U76	8 / 8 - the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U78	9. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U80	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U82	11. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U84	12. - A proposal from the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U86	13. - the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U87	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U88	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U90	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U92	16. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. It was supported and included 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U93	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U94	17. - A proposal from the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U96	18. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U98	19. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Edgars Putra. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U100	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U102	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U104	22. - the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U106	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U108	24. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U110	We have therefore examined this draft law at second, final, reading. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U111	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 17, for - 4. The law is passed. On the agenda - re-reading of the law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U112	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Law on Public Procurement. I would remind you that this law is special, because the President of Latvia has expressed a special opinion on what we had adopted here and put to the President for an announcement. He returned this law and pointed to possible non-compliance with European Union law and possible financial risks. 12 proposals have been made. The proposals of the National Alliance led to the greatest discussions within the Commission. There were quite a lot of institutions... The Ministry of Finance came to commission meetings and tried to find arguments... said it did not see the legitimate aim of such a regulation; the Register of Enterprises pointed out technical problems to implement it; the Procurement Supervision Bureau had a lot of discussions. The Register of Enterprises also discussed the possibility of providing information on public limited liability companies. The Ministry of Justice indicated that it is working on this issue. On the whole, however, when it comes to these controversial proposals, which have not been supported... The Latvian President's Chancellery indicated that to a large extent the proposals have eliminated the President's objections about non-compliance with European Union law and financial risks. Consequently, only the issue of problems of application remains. In total, we have 12 proposals. 1 and National Associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group of the Group of the "Fatherland and Freedom/LNPC" defining the term "out-of-area". And this proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U113	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U114	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr Smilten has already pointed out the progress that has been made on this issue, but I would nevertheless like to reflect the context as a whole. Countries in the world, as well as Latvia, lose a significant share of tax revenue every year because the capital flows to the offshores. This explains the public commitment made by international organisations (including at European Union level) to start the fight against those who are tax evasion; those who are hiding abroad; those who are hiding in offshores, using them solely because of a more favourable tax regime. In Latvia too, the theme of offshores has been updated not only once, and each commitment to do something more loud than the previous one. Since 2008, the tough decisions of several governments have led to exactly that - none. We are trying not only to talk this time, but also to find a solution, so we are looking at the issue that we have already dealt with in February! The decision of the President of Latvia to return these amendments to the law for re-reading in the Saeima was based on concerns about compliance of amendments to the law with legal acts of the European Union. Although we do not agree with the statement of objections to the European Union directives, we have improved the amendments approved at third reading, thus fully removing all the concerns expressed by the President of Latvia. Among other things, it was approved by legal representatives of the Presidential Chancellery during a tripartite meeting with representatives of the Ministry of Finance at the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. We've gone even further. In particular, the first proposal is presented in the law at last - after 10 years of infertile debates in the corridors of various institutions! - to define the term "off-shore". We also offer to strengthen the procedure whereby a candidate or tenderer is to be excluded or not excluded from participation in procurement, as well as a mechanism to ensure effective limitation of the participation of offshore companies in public procurement. The following proposals have been clarified, but in essence they aim to the same end: to exclude offshore companies from participation in public procurement. Colleagues! About 17 per cent of Latvia's gross domestic product consists of public procurement. Given that it is taxpayers' money, or our total cost of all, our task is to ensure that these funds are used transparently and fairly. We must not fund the business of unscrupulous entrepreneurs with the common resources of the State so that they can continue to reduce their tax payments in Latvia through the offshores. Such skilled optimists do not pay millions of euros in taxes, and the funds that should come to the state budget are diverted to the personal benefit of certain unfair entrepreneurs. And it already directly affects every citizen of Latvia. Latvia, like any other Member State of the European Union, has the right to protect its tax base. It is also done by other Member States of the European Union. For example, Bulgaria has such and more stringent restrictions on the participation of offshore companies not only in public procurement but in the public sector as a whole. I would remind you that tax revenue in Latvia accounts for about three quarters of total budget revenue, so protecting our tax base is extremely important. We are aiming for a stronger, more transparent and fairer economy. These amendments have coincided with intense developments in our financial sector; this only reminds us even more of the need to deal with offshore public procurement. Because those who hide on the outside are not just tax--they are hiding from the law, from their responsibility towards the public, from rational financial regulations. We cannot and do not try to ban offshore companies, but we can not accept their rules of the game and stand up for the principle - for a clear message - that those who hide in offshore areas will no longer be able to earn Latvian taxpayers' money. Colleagues! The spirit of amendments to the law is very simple. Companies that hide on the outside and do not want to participate in the construction of our economy and the state cannot participate in public procurement and earn at the taxpayers' expense. There is no conflict with the Directive on public procurement. Member States shall have the possibility to exclude from public procurement participants established in jurisdictions which are not subject to tax. Let us not, therefore, give up the verbal dulls at the moment and the current justice of why we cannot do anything again! I call, however, for us to be aware that we are talking about real spending taxpayers' money and to move to work. Consequently, I call for support to be given to all the proposals put forward by the National Alliance and not to support all the other proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U115	Thank you. Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U116	Colleagues! Much has changed in recent months. These political winds have turned diametrically opposite... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “You have even changed the party!” ) Thank you, Neighbouring. We should talk about it! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Where will you go next time?” ) A few months ago we listened to the Prime Minister's report on the work done and the plans, and there were such very powerful, beautiful themes with a “gas on the floor” feeling that we are building Latvia as the financial centre of Northern Europe and developing these services. But in fact, the parking brake was already broken and banks were shut down, strict control, strengthening AML and KYC procedures. We have decided today to limit shell companies and, in our view, it would be rather strange in this context, especially in the light of the previous draft law, which we have just looked at if we ignored these changes and, like the Commission, would not support these proposals of the National Alliance for the fact that Latvian state procurement cannot start offshores. On behalf of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, I would like to say that we have discussed this issue and have decided to support the proposals of the National Alliance. I therefore call on you to follow what Mr Cole said. Thank you. And I, as the committee's rapporteur, went on...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U117	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U118	One technical file is to be added. Colleagues, you have to take into account that when preparing this table, there are six replacement pages: 4A, 34A, 35A, 36A, 37A and 45A. These changes are very technical and do not affect the proposals. It must therefore be taken into account in the examination of these proposals. So the proposal 1 comes from the National Association. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U119	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U120	2. is a proposal of a technical nature of the Legal Office, which is supported by the Commission. Richard Coll...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U121	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U122	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Thank you very much for your responsible action and the vote on the proposal 1 because it really establishes the principle that offshore companies will not be able to participate in public procurement. Therefore, future votes would be logical... As I have already said, both the proposal from the Saeima's Legal Office is to be rejected, and all other than the proposals submitted by the National Alliance, and all the proposals from the National Alliance are to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U123	I closed the debate. What should be added on behalf of the Commission to proposal 2?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U124	This was supported by the Commission. That is all I would like to add.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U125	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 76, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U126	The proposal was submitted by the Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis instead of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U127	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Please turn off the microphone!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U128	Hello, brothers and sisters! I once again call on the leaders of the people to compete with the ideas of how to promote economic growth rather than limit it. Get out of the apathy! To believe in your own strength! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece!” ) Support each other and together achieve the goal! ( Intercretion: “Oh, horror! ” ) For a green and prosperous world! ( Subtitle: “There is no full month? ”) ; dep. A. Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U129	Mr. Nunozol! The proposal provides for the exclusion of...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U130	... I invite you to support my brother Augusta... That's, the Plant's proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U131	... Section 9(8), fifth paragraph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U132	We're good hosts! I'm sorry... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U133	Mr. Nunozol! Please for the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U134	... I'm going to get up in this pub as long as we get out of this apathy and start putting our economy in order. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U135	Thank you. Mr. Nanosol has been warned. Mr Kalnozol, you will be excluded from the microphone because you are not consistently talking about proposals even after a number of reservations. ( Milestones.) So the debate, whatever it was, ends. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U136	I won't say anything so inspiring. Let me just say that the Commission proposal 3 did not get any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U137	Please call me! We will vote on the third proposal by the Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis instead of the Minister of Finance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - not, against - 72, refrain - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U138	4. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U139	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U140	Colleagues! 5. is a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U141	National Association... Member Richard Cole had asked for a 'no' vote on all the proposals that were not those of the National Alliance. We have to vote. ( FROM a faction: “That’s right, there’s nothing there! ” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 5. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - no, for - 74, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U142	Colleagues! 6. is a proposal submitted by the Minister of Transport, Uldis Augulis, in place of the Minister of Finance. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U143	Please call me! We will vote on the 6th proposal by the Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis instead of the Minister of Finance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 71, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U144	7. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U145	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U146	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U147	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U148	9. Colleagues, it is a proposal of the Group of the National Alliance which intends to amend the article on low-tax or non-tax list of countries or territories which are not regarded as offshore. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U149	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal put forward by the Group for Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U150	10. Colleagues, it is a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance that has not received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U151	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal of the Group on Homeland and Freedom/LNNK! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U152	Colleagues, the penultimate one is the 11th proposal submitted by the Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis in place of the Minister of Finance and which provides for the exclusion of the deadline for the entry into force of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U153	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote on the 11th proposal by the Minister of Transport instead of the Minister of Finance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - not, against - 71, refrain - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U154	12, Colleagues, is the last proposal from the National Association "All for Latvia!" - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” political groups, which foresee that this law will enter into force on 1 June 2018, very soon. This proposal is not supported, but I assume that we will vote in favour of it. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U155	Members are calling for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - National associations “All for Latvia!” - the proposal for "Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U156	Thank you, colleagues. All the proposals have been examined, and I call for the vote on this law as a whole and for it to be re-evaluated by the President of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U157	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for adoption of the law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” after re-reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 79, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U158	Hello, colleagues! Communication from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs The Social and Labour Commission will meet at 10.30 a.m. in the Chamber. Please, members of the Commission, to the Red Hall!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U159	Thank you. Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U160	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Walter Dambe, Aleksandrs Jakimovs, Valdis Kalnozols... And, Alexander Kirštein, Nally Kleinberg, Ivan Clementyev, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Roman Mežeckis... Yes, Roman Money, Sergey Potapkins, Edward Smilten... Yes, Mārtiņš Šics and Dzintars Zaķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U161	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U162	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U163	Hello, colleagues! We are working on the draft law amending the Criminal Law (No 984/Lp12). The Legal Commission received 18 proposals in total. 1. - a proposal by Mr. Silenieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U165	2. - The legal commission's proposal. And, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, I have to explain a little bit more to you here. In particular, this draft law was more focused on the chapter on terrorism-related crime. The four articles made editorial improvements or improvements, because when discussing some of the norms of the Criminal Law, it was stated that the wording introduced several years ago "is or has been in an unregistered matrimonial relationship" is not legally correct, is very unclear, it is even contrary to the understanding of who the spouses are and who are not registered spouses. Therefore, in order to be more closely incorporated into the law, this feature, which, in some compositions of criminal offences, constitutes a circumstance... which constitutes a qualified composition or is an aggravating circumstance, on behalf of the Commission, the Ministry of Justice carried out an analysis of these concepts, offered to the Commission such an in-depth analysis and proposed that a more precise wording corresponding to the content would be the fact that there is or has been a permanent intimate relationship between a criminal offender and a person. The Ministry of Justice has explained extensively what falls under this concept: both physical and emotional proximity (of course also sexual relations). Consequently, the Legal Commission prepared a proposal in this article and three more articles. That is the proposal 2. And the commission has supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U167	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U169	4. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Iesalnieks. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U171	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U173	6. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U175	7. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U177	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U179	9. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U181	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U183	11. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U185	12. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U187	13. - a proposal by Mr. Silenieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U188	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U189	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. It is partly supported, incorporated 15. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U190	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U191	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U193	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was partly supported by the Commission, incorporated in 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U194	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U195	17. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U196	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U197	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U198	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U199	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on colleagues to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U200	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U201	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” for the third reading. Five proposals were received. 1. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau to clarify the title of Chapter Three as follows: "Use of the flag of the State of Latvia and other flags in the external space". The Commission supported proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U203	2. - Legal Bureau proposal to clarify Article 5 and to add a sixth paragraph in the following wording: “The terms “cross-border crossing” and “internal border” used in this Law shall correspond to the terms used in the State Border Law of the Republic of Latvia.” The Commission supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U205	3. - a proposal by the Legal Office to supplement the first paragraph. In particular, the Cabinet of Ministers establishes: “The procedure for the permanent establishment and maintenance of the state flag of Latvia at border crossing points and in places where the main roads of the state cross the internal border, the territory necessary for the permanent establishment and maintenance of the state flag of Latvia, the procedure for its maintenance, as well as the persons responsible for these activities.” In the past, the draft law provided for these responsible persons to be appointed by the Saeima. The Commission supported 3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U207	4. - The legal commission's proposal. The Commission was supported. The period of issue of the Cabinet Regulations mentioned in the previous proposal shall not be later than August 31, 2018. The Commission endorsed the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U209	5. - The legal commission's proposal is also supported. It lays down the time for the entry into force of the law. It is the day after it is announced.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U210	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U211	I would really like to say a great deal of thanks to the Saeima, the ministries - VARAM, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior -, the State Border Guard and many other institutions, including municipalities, which were able to work together very quickly and quickly to adopt this draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U212	Mr Dombrava, please speak on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U213	... which will enable flags to be deployed already this year at national borders. And although this proposal provides for a transitional provision that the Cabinet of Ministers should lay down rules by August, it will not prevent procurements already being made, so that, by the end of this year, in the internal borders of Latvia, the flag of the State of Latvia will await us. And indeed, thank you very much both to the ministries, to the Legal Commission and to the municipalities, which have allowed this draft law to be adopted very quickly and quickly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U214	Thank you. I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U215	So Proposal No 5 - The Legal Commission's proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U217	On behalf of the Commission, please support the adoption of the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U218	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Flag of the State of Latvia” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U219	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” (No. 1173/Lp12). The Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission worked on a total of five proposals. The proposal, which comes from the Legal Office, was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U221	Two more. - The legal bureau's proposal - was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U223	3. is a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible and has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U225	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U227	Five more. - Legal Bureau's proposal - the Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U229	Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call on you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U230	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Invalidity Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member... here are the entries Romualds Ražuks. ( Internouncing call.) So the rapporteur has been changed. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Jelena Lazareva.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U231	Madam President, Colleagues! The amendments to the Disability Act are designed to provide, first of all, a legal basis for the functioning of the disability information system. The system already exists and ensures the processing of information data for persons with predictable disability and persons with disabilities; it is managed by the National Commission of Health and Work Capacity Expertise Doctors. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Commission's activities do not constitute treatment. The draft law provides that uncertified experts may work in the Commission. The draft law lists the institutions which have the right to process the information included in the information system. The draft law has now changed the word ‘disabled’ to ‘person with disabilities’. Secondly, the draft law provides support for persons of working age and benefits from rehabilitation and medical services. Thirdly, the draft law provides for the possibility to receive assistance services for persons with disabilities through higher education. The changes to the law provide both for an increase of expenditure of the state budget of the current year by 26 thousand euros, as well as for the next three years. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U232	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Invalidity Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U233	The deadline for submitting proposals is 25 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U234	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U235	Colleagues, good morning! Unfortunately, these draft laws are put on the agenda of the Saeima sitting in the order in which they should not be, but I will talk about all three draft laws. In essence, the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services” is related both to the amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers and to the basic law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments”. The purpose of the draft law is to introduce requirements arising from Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments. The aim of the directive is to make the European Union's financial markets more stable and transparent, to ensure investor protection, to reduce systemic risks, to ensure the efficiency of markets in financial instruments and to reduce the costs for their members. The draft law ‘Amendments to the Audit Services Act’ is a related draft law and it synchronises the norms contained in the Financial Instruments Market Act. The Commission examined and supported this draft law at first reading. I also call on you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U236	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U237	The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U238	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 3 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U239	Colleagues! This draft law is also linked to the Financial Instruments Market Act. And so the basic idea is to bring the rules in the Alternative Investment Funds and their managers into line with those in the Market Act for Financial Instruments. The Commission has examined and supported this draft law. I also call on you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U240	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and their Managers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U241	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 3 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U242	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 3 May of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U243	Colleagues! This is the main draft law that we talked about earlier. This is quite large and results from the directive of the Council of Europe and of the Parliament, namely the transposition of its rules. Although the Cabinet asked for this draft law to be reviewed as a matter of urgency, in the Commission most tended to work constructively, but in three readings. Therefore, urgency was not supported. After the calendar, we can get within the deadline so that there is no infringement procedure. This draft law was supported by the Commission. I also invite you to support the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U244	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U245	The deadline for submitting proposals is similar to that of the previous two draft laws - 3 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U246	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 3 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U248	On the agenda - Draft Law on Amendments to the Communication Act, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U249	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined and supported amendments to the Law on Communication, which have been developed at the initiative of the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in order to harmonise the norms of the Law on Communication and the Law on Official Electronic Address. The Law on Official Electronic Address, which entered into force on 1 March of this year, establishes the use of the Official Electronic Address in electronic communications. During the process of harmonising amendments, it was decided more precisely in discussions with the institutions to separate the legal framework for communication and communication, so it was necessary to amend the Communication Act at the same time. The new regulation provides that one of the means of notification is to an e-address account in the cases and in the order prescribed by the Law on Official Electronic Addresses if the addressee is activated. A document sent to an e-address account shall be deemed to have been notified on the second working day following its transmission. Another amendment contained in the draft law complements the existing legal framework with the notification to the e-address account. Thus, the conditions for disprovoting notifications to e-address accounts will be the same as in other cases where electronic communications are used for notification. Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U250	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Communication Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U251	The Legal Commission is asking for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals on 2 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U252	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 2 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U253	Hello, honorable Saeima! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”. By means of the draft law, we are trying to address the problem that has arisen in a situation where officials in the State Security Authority with the same or comparable functions have different conditions and therefore different social guarantees. With this draft law, we intend to remedy this situation. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U254	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U255	May 12th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U256	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 12 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U257	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability”. The Commission has examined 12 proposals. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to change the composition of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee. These amendments will apply to the next period of election of the new disciplinary panel. Within the Commission 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice - has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U259	2. - The legal commission's proposal. It should be noted, however, that there was a discussion in the Commission on this proposal. In particular, the essence of the proposal is related to the fact that when imposing disciplinary sanctions, the Judicial Disciplinary Committee may determine to the Judicial Qualification Board to carry out an extraordinary assessment of professional activities of judges. The question is, can this also be the case when a disciplinary case is brought to an end? There were also different views on this issue. Shortly before examining this draft law, we also received proposals from Judge Strupišs, on which there were different opinions. However, the Commission has now decided to support the wording proposed by the Legal Commission and to continue the discussion between the second and third readings. I therefore call for support on behalf of the Commission. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U261	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U263	4. - the proposal from the Legal Commission, which relates to proposal 2. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U265	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U267	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U269	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U271	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U273	9. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U275	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U277	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Is partially supported, included in 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U278	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U279	12. - a proposal from the Legal Commission relating to 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U281	We have examined all the proposals, therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U282	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U283	The deadline for submitting proposals is 18 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U284	Thank you. Proposals are due by 18 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to law “On Judicial Power”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U285	Colleagues! We see the draft law “Amendment to law “On Judicial Power””. The Commission has received and examined 13 proposals. 1. - the proposal made by Member Valdis Kalnozols, which was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U286	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U287	Hello, brothers and sisters! In particular, I want to turn to Gaida and Raivja. I think that on behalf of our common experience, I can address you. Have you read Delfus today? There is once again written about the infidelity of our judiciary. For the moment, Dep. V.Spolitis: “Now!” ), in a way, I am doing a work that also benefits you - the National Alliance - in order to sort out this judicial power. As an engineer builder, I understand in principle that my proposals are not outstanding. I'm an engineer builder. Waiti knows it very well, and Raivis knows it well: my offers are not the best. But I have a question why nobody, including the leaders of the people from the National Alliance, has put forward any fundamental issue in the knowledge of this situation that the people do not trust the judiciary... Only I have now put forward these proposals so that the judiciary can be organised... rather than, as we do for the moment, timidly correct the existing system, which has a low level of credibility. The proposals of the calcosol are sound proposals, and their only aim is to sort this system out, not just to fix and shred it. I call once again to believe in your own strength and abilities. We don't bother, we don't feel embarrassed, we fix it! Let us arrange for justice to rule in our justice system! But for the moment to come, God’s Word says: “Do not be afraid. ” V.Spolitis: “Now! Now!’ ) seems to be... For God's sake, let nothing change, that it may remain in the authority of the courts, that it should not trust it, that it should not be in righteousness. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece! For the proposal!’ ) I call on you: we have a duty to take care of the people and put this system in order. Well, we're good owners in our land! I call for this particular proposal to be put to the vote at the moment. Why? Because I will correct it, I only have a question for the Legal Commission and the Legal Bureau. You have well understood that my proposal is not to create a new judicial system in which there is a family court. My proposal was to create family judges. So I call on you not to vote on this matter, because I will adjust to the third reading in such a way that it is really not a family court, but only family judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U288	Thank you. Consequently, the Member does not hold the vote on this proposal. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U289	Yeah, thank you. Two things. First thing. I would like to point out that this Monday a meeting of the Council for the Judiciary took place, in which a report on the efficiency and quality of the functioning of the judicial system of Latvia was heard by the Commission for the Council of Europe, and the report was devoted to the work of many positive words, which is currently taking place with the aim of efficiency of the judicial system. That would be in relation to what Mr Nunozole said. On the proposal, I can also say that there is already a specialisation, so there is also a specialisation in family law matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U290	The Commission has therefore not supported the proposal. The proposer himself shall not request a vote. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U291	Thank you. 2. There is a motion from the Member, Mr Kalnozol, which has not been supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U292	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U293	Hello! My proposal is another proposal by the engineer so that our courts are governed not by a legal interpretation of justice, but by a true truth. And to have in a way not only the lobby of lawyers, that only a lawyer can represent his client, but to... because the lawyer in the court deals with interpretation as he understands the law and not the search for justice. And my proposal: let our courts judge more according to justice, not according to the interpretation of the letter of the law. Already when the United States wrote its Constitution, it was considered that in principle the law could never be written in all cases. Therefore, there is a call for this judicial system to be built in such a way that it contains justice rather than interpretation of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U294	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U295	Thank you. There is nothing to add. The Commission did not support this proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U296	However, we have to vote on this proposal because the rapporteur does not request a vote on the first proposal. A proposal has been tabled here. The rapporteur has also spoken about this. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -2, for -55, for -18. The proposal is not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš votes in favour. Imposition: “What did you do?” ; dep. A.Kaimiņš: “I am sorry, I will not!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U297	Yeah. Thank you. ( Noise is on the grass.) 3. There is a proposal from the Member, Mr Kalnozol, which has not been endorsed by the Commission. Here, in fact, Member Nanozol proposes that the principle of competition, which is currently established in civil proceedings, should be abandoned, and that was also one of the arguments why the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U298	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U299	Dear Members! I am truly sorry that, knowing this low credibility of the judiciary, which has been talked about many times, only Kalnozol, the engineer builder Kalnozol, has put forward his proposals to sort out this system. I'm really sorry. My proposal is to shift the competition principle into the principle of fairness. My definition is taken from the administrative court because the administrative court has this wording. The nature of my proposal. My proposal: let's not be this race! Don't have to compete! In other words, two lawyers compete, how successful, how perfect, or how perfect, they will interpret the law. One of the main problems of judicial power is that about 40 per cent of decisions of the court of first instance are revoked by the decision of the Supreme Court. And the problem is that in the court's decision there is not justice, but interpretation - interpretation of the law. Therefore, my intention is to do so in order that justice, justice, rather than the interpretation of the letter of the law, may rule in our courts.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U300	Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U301	Ladies and gentlemen! I, too, am in the Legal Commission. I'm not a lawyer after education, I'm an economist. And that is why I am very careful about the proposals I make to professional lawyers. Here, Member Nanozols here all the time emphasizes that he is an engineer builder, and if I came to him now with tips on how to build a house, then I'm afraid that the house would collapse. And so I really recommend a little silence this revolutionary enthusiasm. As I said, it really is a great honor and pleasure for me to work with such high professionals (not to name them). I am learning a lot from them, and one of the things I have learned is that there must not be unjustified accusations against the judicial system. It is essentially an insult to the state of Latvia. Yeah, I'm critical of many things, too. At the same time, however, it is wrong to say that society does not trust the judiciary. Society is not one or 10 people! And if you looked at these sociological surveys, you would see that the Saeima does not trust more than the judiciary. It is from the state institutions that this confidence index is the highest for the judiciary. And on this particular proposal - on fairness. I'll tell you the illustration. Let us say, there is a rural village where a very wise and respected man named Valdis lives. Two neighbors come to him, Ivars and Peter, and he says: “The Lord, solve our dispute! Who is right?” Ivars says: “Peter my chicken is four chicken. - the son of a bitch!’ Peter says, "But Ivar's chickens came to my garden to bet my plants and my volumes." Ivars asks the Board: “I’m right?” Valdis says, “Yes, you are right.” Peter asks: “I am right?” Valdis says, “Yes, you are right.” Valdis’s wife says, “It can’t be that both of them are right.” Valdis answers: “Yes, you are right.” You see, this principle of justice is really... I am not a professional lawyer, but I understand that the principle of race means the opposite... How did the lawyers explain to me... in words, if we were to order the judge to gather all the evidence of both Ivar's justice and all the evidence of Peter's righteousness, then such a process would cost so much... and I doubt better results. The principle of competition means that both parties defend their rights and make it feel like they say... I see that after my time a professional lawyer will speak and explain this concept better... But I still call... I understand that each of us has the right to express its opinion, but I nevertheless call... I myself am abstaining from counseling on... Although my father was a builder, I do not know how to build houses properly. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U302	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U303	Thank you, Mr. Freeer. The final words were those with whom I wanted to start my speech. All due respect for the representative of each profession and every Member who seeks to improve the law! And, of course, ideas are good, because they can be developed by others. But there are two major problems in this specific proposal. The first problem. Mr Kalnciema requests that this article on the principle of competition be deleted from the outside. Let us remember: Since ancient times, Temide has kept weight in her hands. Each side puts its own evidence on these scales, and what is the more serious evidence. That is the essence of the competition principle. The second thing and the most important problem arises in the proposed project. In particular, the proposed draft states that the court needs to play an active role. And now let's imagine criminals. In the court, the judge to whom the case is to be dealt with seems to be working poorly in the prosecution, the prosecutor. And he says, “You know, I want more and more evidence to make the charge more stable!” Will you like a judge who has been indicted and wants the charge to be firm? And although the Criminal Procedure Law does not apply the principle of competition, there are also two parties competing with each other, with more evidence. A judge who takes the positions of one of the parties shall, in principle, lose his neutrality. So the other verses say... Both articles of the Constitution and other articles of the Constitution state that a judge’s judgment, not only in judicial decision, in criminal, civil and administrative matters, must be justified and fair. And there's another thing, because here's no more about the truth that Mr. Freeer said at the historic wedding, but it's about justice, that's how to deal with the case, if the law says it can be done, but the judge has to decide, within the limits of this law, which party would be fairer... not participate in evidence-gathering activities of either party. Thank you. I call for the opinion of the Legal Commission to be shared in this vote and for the specific proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U304	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U305	Dear Mr. Freeer! I just sent you an e-mail. ( Milestones.) That's not, I'm sorry, my personal view of the judiciary and my trust in it. There are studies there, there are the views of Vaira Vike-Freiberga, there are the views of the President of the Lawyers' Society Borovkov... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Borovkov is a very good person!” ) What a real name this... Is that so? ( Internouncing call.) That's not, I'm sorry, my personal opinion. Read and then come and talk.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U306	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U307	I would just like to say that the Legal Commission does not have the information mentioned by Mr Nanozol - that 40 per cent of court decisions are annulled. I draw attention to this: it is also necessary to look at how many things are going to the cassation instance at all. However, it is a question of statistics; that is something we do not value at the moment. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U308	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -2, for -58, for -17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U309	4. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Izalnieks, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U311	5. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Izalnieks, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U312	It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U313	I'm sorry! It's supported, yeah!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U315	Thank you. 6. - the proposal from Member Nernosol, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U316	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. ( Interface: August!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U317	We all understand that the President of Latvia should not be under 45 years of age. But the one who decides our destiny, the destiny of our constituents? We believe that he may be under 45 years of age. Why such injustice? But there is also the wisdom of life. Not only the wisdom we read in books or study in educational establishments but also the wisdom of life, yes. And I have a great request: let's make this system so that we have judges who have not only learned and have successfully finished these institutions, but also the wisdom of life. If our President cannot be younger than 45, then I suggest that our judges, too, are wise and are able to decide on our fate! This, in my opinion, is a very important proposal to put this system in order so that these decisions are something closer to justice and not rooted in the maximumism of youth: this is bad, it is good, it is white, it is black. A man, after all, realizes that everything is not either white or black; that it is not always what at first sight seems to be the bad thing... then it turns out that this seemingly bad thing is good. Yes, that understanding comes with years of life. It is not immediately available after a couple of cases have been dealt with. So I have a big request. This is a very important proposal to put our judiciary right and to restore credibility to the nation and, at least, to the credibility that Denmark has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U318	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U319	Yeah. I must first of all point out that Mr Nanozol had not come to the committee when these proposals were discussed - this one, and the next, as well as the next one. However, regarding the same proposal it has to be said that the age criterion of the law “On Judicial Power” has been established for judges of the Supreme Court. And here is the criterion: the judge is the one who has reached the age limit of 40. In turn, if we introduce the 45-year-old criterion of a judge of a district (city) court, it will be possible to work in the Supreme Court for persons with a smaller number of years. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U320	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for -77, for -2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U321	7. - the proposal made by Member Valdis Kalnozols, which has not been endorsed by the Commission. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U322	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. ( The utterance: “Knanozol, peace! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U323	While working on this draft law, I took into account what Mr Vike-Freiberga said, which we all respect very much and respect. Mr. Freeer! The fact that a judge stays forever does not ensure that he really makes the best decisions. Now, many decisions for us who are in court... Once again: a very large number of decisions of the first instance court, which are annulled by a higher instance court... I think this is because the judge is for life, he will sometimes not go into these decisions, as he says, but he will stay for life. And yet there would be some motivation for the judge to consider his decisions, not to decide as things, say, and already the Supreme Court will cancel. We've had legal proceedings for years. There is rarely a judge who has previous experience, and very rarely a judge who is left to the court of the highest instance to take effect. My proposals are aimed at making some kind of motivation and at re-assessing and verifying the way in which he has worked as a judge after a certain period of time. Don't be that he's a lifetime... Tell me what I want you to do, and you're not gonna do anything to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U324	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U325	While this proposal is not related to the election of judges for life, here is a criterion that a person, in particular a candidate for the position of a judge, has to act in the legal profession for at least 15 years. The Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U326	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 76, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U327	The next, 8th, is also a proposal from the Member, Mr Kalnozol, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U328	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U329	Yeah, I'm sorry about the previous one. I hadn't taken the glasses. The previous one was more than to make a judge smart, because we have most of the... 90 percent of the judges are the ones who have been... has passed this trial, and in fact they live in a greenhouse situation that they do not see the reality elsewhere. My proposal was that lawyers who have ever been both prosecutors and lawyers and have seen how this happens in nature go about judges. In order for a judge to have defended someone and actually felt that clothing, not so as to decide something from outside when living in greenhouse conditions. On this specific proposal, which relates to family matters. It is the idea that family affairs are very specific things that need to be dealt with not only from a legal point of view, but also from a human wisdom point of view. Why do I have the following proposals? I don’t like the term that we have in many places – “with perfect reputation”. I have a request to laugh more about the concept of perfect reputation, because I think there is no perfect reputation in this hall, nor in Latvia, nor in the whole world. Now there are no such people with a perfect reputation! And my proposals are such that those who decide on family matters are not people who have arisen and decide today. Let him have some wisdom in life and some experience. Do not be that someone who has not arranged his own life decides on the lives of others. He who does not raise a child himself will decide on another child. Well, that's not logical! Well, I'm sorry. Well, take care of our people, our children, and make family matters not only legally sound! It's very... These judges, like in America, need a psychologist’s education, a psychologist’s experience, so that they understand this “cloth” rather than the question of the court’s interpretation... In many cases, such people have destroyed the fate of many children. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U330	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U331	Good morning, colleagues! First. In practice, this specific proposal by Mr Nernozol already solves nothing and does not put anything in order. In fact, it provides for the introduction of a ban on the profession. It is a highly discriminatory proposal, because such an interpretation would prohibit the taking up of a judge's office by people who, for example, because of health problems or physiological features... I am not talking about same-sex marriages and so on. This is an absolute discrimination. Secondly. If you read this proposal carefully... This means that every judge in family affairs would need at least three higher education. That too is, as you say, absolutely unrealistic. In addition, it states: ‘there are [...] experience and skills to build and maintain a family relationship’. Then the question arises: will a person who, let us assume, once in his life will be divided, be able to pass through this filter or not? Of course not. As I heard here four times that Mr. Kalnozol called himself a engineer builder, then I would call on Mr. Kalnozol: stop writing proposals in areas for which you have no reason, and perhaps turn to the Construction Law or to the laws that would develop the economy! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U332	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U333	Carly! I would understand if you had made some proposals and then talked. I understand that in any case... Everyone understands that if we hire a person... In this case, I am talking about a case close to me - construction. We will not employ someone who does not know how to manage other people. We'll ask him for leadership. This is self-evident. We understand that the Prime Minister cannot be anyone; it must be an experienced leader. But for the time being (Minimums: “Now! Now!’ ) we believe that anyone can be a judge. Why do we think so right now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( The transcripts are: “Yes! You said!” ) In my opinion, my proposals... Mr. Carly! I don't know why in America you understand that a family judge should be both a psychologist's education and a legal judge. You don't know why you don't want to understand that! ( Intercretion: Thank you!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U334	The debate is not yet closed. Name to Member Artus Neminis. ( Interface: “Short, succinctly! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U335	Hello, honourable Saeima! Member Kalnozols has put forward the following proposal: “The candidates for judges of family courts have additional knowledge and receive the necessary training on children’s rights, psychology and family affairs.” It's as if it were. But further: “The candidates for judges of family courts have at least 10 years of experience in marriage or civil marriage life and a raised child under 18 years of age, or experience and skills to build and maintain a family relationship, including in the long term.” Mrs Mūrniece, you could not even, in principle, be Chairman of the Saeima... I don't know if you have 10 years of marriage, let's take... And let's take Mrs. Silverba... you could not be, say, a Member, because the next proposals... You have no husband or children. And where else to talk about me! I am 38 years old! ( Milestones.) I don't have children, I don't have a wife! However, judges should also be raised to 18-year-old children. This nihilistic attitude, honourable colleagues, actually points to the fact that Nagornozols is so much hated by the power of the Latvian courts that he simply, using his own Member's biasive mandate, making all of your group, which I like, in principle distorts any kind of debate here in the Saeima. Of course, do not support this plague. Brigman, take him that map so he can't come and talk here! It is a complete and absolute nuance, which is being spoken here and requested by judges with regard to the life of marriage! How, then, will you measure, suppose, how has this judge taught you to maintain a family relationship? Well, Hosam Abu Mary! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “I don’t get there!” ) Well, let's... How will we measure it now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So please don't support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U336	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U337	Colleagues! Perhaps this will go beyond the context of this law. But Mr. Neiminina said: 'distorts any kind of debate here in the Saeima'. There is some kind of political ethics, and I would like to remind you that, as we are all preparing for the elections, let us not try ad homines to analyse the things of another person's family and ad hominem to offend other colleagues. (Applause) I call for this to be observed until the elections. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You don’t have to walk through the parties!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U338	Thank you. I closed the debate. The name of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U339	Colleagues! Two cases on the proposal. The first concerns the knowledge of judges in the area of family law. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child obliges the judge to acquire such knowledge, and this is also happening in practice at the moment. The second is on paragraph 9. The proposed amendment is not fully understood from a terminology point of view. What is meant by ‘life of civil marriage’, what is meant by ‘long-term education’, for example, in the short term? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “It is necessary to ask Imants, he will know!” ) This proposal is not clear from a terminology point of view. In the light of all the above considerations, the Commission did not support this proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U340	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U341	9. There is also a proposal from the Member, Mr Kalnozol, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U342	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U343	Dear Members! You don’t have to be so personally perceived as marriage and child creation! This proposal is very important (Dep. A.Lejiņš: “As All of You!” ), as I said, the judges will have the motivation, because after a certain time they will evaluate their activities. I am sorry that, from a legal point of view, I, as an engineer, may not make these proposals so well, but that is why we are here - Members - very many and different. I am not criticising the fact that someone is not an entrepreneur or someone is not an engineer builder and so on. And I give a moment like (Minimum: “Now! Now!’ )... Could you not stop me talking?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please stop such things, Mrs Inara. Yeah. I have a request: to support this proposal for a moment, because it is essentially... there will be an incentive for the judge to make his decisions better. I have a great request. When this law “On Judicial Power” was opened, I called all of you: come with your proposals! Now we believe that we can change something! Now, we're not apathetic! The situation for the moment (Minimum: “Now! Now!’ ), we see... for the moment I have in principle... ( In between: “Now! ”) )... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U344	Mr Kalnozols, be so kind, go back to the debate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U345	Yes, I have a great request to support this proposal. And a great request: Members, let's put our country in order, not look apathically... And if someone proposes to sort out this situation, don't turn it into a farce. Rather, look at it... Well, we're doing it to sort this country out! May the people be happy and happy! And for the moment, all that is happening is also linked to the fact that our reputation is low. And for the moment you show it (Minimum: “Now! Now!’ )... You're laughing at someone who's trying to clean up. Thank you for raising my reputation in the eyes of voters!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U346	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U347	Dear colleagues, I also call for this country to be organised, but professionally approach to this issue. And with regard to the powers of judges... Of course, it is not possible to read all the documents that have been recommended for the Latvian state, as examples of good practice. Then I could point out that in the assessments that were so-called evolution programmes to be implemented by Latvia, there was a clear and clear reference to the judicial system that, in the regulation of the judicial system in Latvia, it is possible for a judge to set a deadline of two years after his initial appointment, contrary to the principle of the independence of the courts, because the judge becomes dependent on who appointed him in the last year of his activities. It would therefore also not be good to maintain even this two-year period. However, more than 10 years ago, the experts of the Council of Europe and of the European Union who evaluated it said: “Latvia, as a transitional country, is permitted to have two more years.” But the basic principle... what the Venice Commission's experts have written about the independence of the courts... its great recommendations... There are no judges... There are really high-ranking lawyers, experts, who have written, saying: the judge must be appointed either for life or for a very long period, which must be the only one, since any re-vote means that the judge loses his independence in recent years. I therefore call for such a proposal, which is contrary to international recommendations, not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U348	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U349	I will send you this passage once again, Mr Curry, which states that... Not only am I, and not only the person who wrote Delfos today, but not only TV3 journalists, but very many point to problems in our judiciary. I have a request. Mr. Curry, come with your proposals. We arrange the rule of law, not looking indifferently and apathically at what is happening here!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U350	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U351	Yeah. I can say that Mr Kūtra is very often putting forward various proposals within the Commission. This proposal and the next one. On the subject of the comments made by Member Kūtra, I would also like to point out the report just mentioned by the Council of Europe Commission on the effectiveness of the judiciary in Latvia, which was presented this Monday. Moreover, this report states, by the way, that the influence of the legislative and executive powers on the decisions to appoint judges should be limited in order to prevent appointments for political reasons. Parliament is at risk of politicising judges in the course of their appointment. And, I must say, early or late we will probably have to come back to the question of whether the Saeima should appoint judges or whether it should still be done to the Council for the Judiciary. At this point in time, I am calling for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U352	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 70, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U353	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Valdis Nanozols, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U354	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U355	Now I am very sorry that I have drawn up these proposals with a view to putting the judiciary right. Well, I'm so sorry! I'm a fool! How did I let this happen?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U356	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, is there anything to add to this proposal 10?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U357	No, thank you. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U358	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 3, for - 67, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U359	11. - the proposal from Member Nernosol, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U360	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. ( From the group “All for Latvia! ”) -Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK: “Apologies again?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U361	Once again, I am sorry that I am from those people who are still fighting for the idea and fighting for Latvia to be arranged and citizens satisfied with us. And that I am fulfilling my duty when drafting this proposal. I am very sorry, dear colleagues, that I am carrying out my duty. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “Come on, come on!” ) Regarding this proposal, I think Mr Kūtra has pointed out that our judicial system has its own order where we support each other and so on. My proposal is not just for judges to judge themselves. I Have Experienced in the Court (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Tell us about their experience!” ) in which I sued the bailiff. The judge met with a member of her group, and... There was no decision on the absolute violation of a judicious bailiff. That's why I'm proposing that these people who appreciate judges... the involvement of national leaders, who have been sent to improve the judiciary. We, the Presidents of the People, have been entrusted with the task of bringing this country into order, and that is why my proposal that the Presidents of the People also follow us so that all the powers and the State are in order.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U362	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U363	Thank you. I have already mentioned that with regard to the role of the Saeima in the appointment of judges, there are several indications that such role of the Saeima can be qualified as political interference. Among other things, this proposal provides for the appointment of the Saeima by the Judicial Qualification Committee by secret ballot. There is also a question of secret ballot. The Commission has not supported this proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U364	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 2, against -69, refraining from -1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U365	12. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U367	13. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U369	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U370	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U371	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U372	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 2 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U373	Colleagues, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science have examined for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” (No 923/Lp12). The Commission has listened to representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science, representatives of the Board of Directors, as well as representatives of the Higher Education Council and the Student Association of Latvia. The draft law provides for several changes and clarifications in the Law on Higher Education, which concerns the legal framework, the Convention of the University's Advisers, election issues, departments and colleges, as well as the processing and other issues of data to be included in the university register and the register of students and graduates. The Commission has received 101 proposals. 1. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U374	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U375	Dear colleagues, I will talk about the first six proposals at once. I would like to say that in 2014, when I was elected here in the Saeima, as the leader of the people, I really considered my duty to develop, together with specialists, a comprehensive and, let us say, an integrated offer for changes in the field of higher education, and they affected several very important aspects. I submitted these proposals in the summer of 2015. You understand, I'm very sorry that for such a long time, almost three years, they lay down with various committee heads in the drawer. And that is why I would like to thank Mr Aldim Adamovič first of all for being so courageous and finally highlighted and put on the agenda. On the other hand, I regret that they were not in favour. But I think we will certainly return to these issues because, as we all understand, higher education is the key to the competitiveness and sustainability of our country in general. And if we now look at what needs to be done in this system, then we see that since 2005 the number of students has halved, while the number of teachers elected in academic positions has increased by 500. There are still 49 higher education institutions in Latvia, where higher education can be obtained, and there are still more than 800 programmes that are accredited. I think this question... There are universities with one or two doctors. We know that universities have now set up a huge network of branches, which in fact allows to obtain and ensure maximum access to education, whatever money is possible, because, you know, you can get any kind of higher education in Latvia. We can see that advertising still offers higher education, starting at EUR 50 per month... I think these issues are glaring, they need to be dealt with. And they were also actually at the heart of my proposals. My proposals are in about four directions. The first is the structure. This means that there was a proposal to remove branches... maybe not the places where we can get higher education... but now the network of these branches is expanding out of control. As well as college... Profile colleges add to the respective universities if we are not talking about mechanical addition... But just change the founders... At present, the proposal of the Ministry of Education and Science is to reform the system so that all colleges of the relevant profile use the common resources of their mother's university, and I think this is a very reasonable and correct proposal. Nine proposals, too... One of the proposals... The package of proposals consisted of the fact that I proposed to increase the number of doctoral students in universities... raise these percentages, however. And there were other proposals. Of course, the issue of governance is very important. At present, universities are highly independent in their activities. That is good on the one hand, but we see that this quality does not satisfy any employers, from lawyers to teachers, construction engineers, artists, actors including. All these employers who receive this “product” from universities are not satisfied with quality. And, of course, the next direction is the internationalisation of this environment, the higher education environment. I offer all students in each special course four credits in one of the languages of the European Union, so that everyone who ends at the University of Latvia is able to communicate at least in English, able to participate in international activities that they all need at the moment. Well, here's probably the opinion that languages are an obstacle. I think it is very important that we are all able to communicate in different languages in our specialty. At the same time, I think it is extremely important not to allow the Latvian language to be ejected from higher education. In Latvian it is necessary to have terminology in all fields. I would never support proposals that lead to the possibility of obtaining some degree in Latvia without knowing Latvian. I will probably come back to one of the proposals and I will tell you more, but now that I have no conceptual support in general, I will not ask for a vote on each proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U376	Thank you. So Mr Dalder points out that he will not be asking for a vote on all his proposals. Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U377	Yeah. Colleagues, I would like to say thank you to Int Dalder for the proposals that have been lying in drawers for more than three years. There is really a problem with university management, as well as the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia. It's working on it. There is also a problem with the huge number of programmes: in 2006 there were more than 600 programmes, but now that the number of students has fallen by 30 percent, there are more than 900 programmes, and sooner or later we will have to return to these issues. But now, listening, as I said, to the Committee of Directors, the Council of Higher Education and the Ministry of Education and Science, the Commission has taken its decisions on each proposal. 1. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U378	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U379	2. - Member Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U380	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U381	3. - Mr. Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U382	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U383	4. - Mr. Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U384	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U385	5. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U386	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U387	6. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U388	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U389	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U391	8 / 8 - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U392	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U393	9. - Mr. Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U394	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U395	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U396	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U397	11. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U398	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U399	12. - a proposal from Member Ilze Viņķele. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U400	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The proposal by Member Ilze Viņķele! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U401	13. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U403	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from Member Ilze Viņķele. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U405	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U406	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U407	16. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U408	Supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U409	I'm sorry! It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U410	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U411	17. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U412	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U413	18. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U414	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U415	19. - Member Dalder's proposal has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U416	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U417	Also 20. - Member Dalder's proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U418	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U419	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U420	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U421	22. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U422	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U423	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U424	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U425	24. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U426	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U427	25. - Mr. Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U428	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U429	26. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U430	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U431	27. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U432	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U433	28. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U435	29. - Member Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U436	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U437	30. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U438	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U439	31 also not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U440	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U441	32. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Partly supported and included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U442	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U443	33. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U445	34. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U446	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U447	35. - Member Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U448	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U449	36. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U450	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U451	37. - also the proposal from Member Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U452	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U453	38. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U454	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U455	39. - Also Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U456	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U457	40. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Partly supported and included 41. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U458	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U459	41. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U461	42. - Member Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U462	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U463	43. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U464	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U465	44. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U466	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U467	45. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U468	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U469	46. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U470	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U471	47. - Mr. Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U472	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U473	48. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U474	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U475	49. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U476	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U477	50. - Mr. Dalder's proposal. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U478	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U479	51. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U480	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U481	52. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U482	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U483	53. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Partly supported and included 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U484	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U485	54. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U487	55. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U488	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U489	56. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U491	57. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U492	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U493	58. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U495	59. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U496	It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U497	I'm sorry! It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U499	60. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U500	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U501	61. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U503	62. - a proposal from Member Ilze Viņķele. Not supported. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U504	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 62. - Mr Viņķele's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 18, 58, abstaining. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U505	63. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U507	64. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U508	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U509	65. - Mr. Dalder's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U511	66. - The proposal of the Minister of Education and Science, Karlis Shadursky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U513	67. - Mr. Dalder's proposal. Partly supported and included 68. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U514	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U515	68. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U517	69. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U519	70. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U520	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U521	71. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U523	72. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U525	73. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U526	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U527	74. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U529	75. - a proposal from Member Ilze Viņķele. Not supported. ( From a political group, ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U530	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for 75. - The proposal by Member Ilze Viņķele! Please vote mode! ( Internexion: Who made the proposal?) ) Please see the result. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Viņķelis! Let's see how the Unity votes!" ) - 19, against - 58, abstain - not. The proposal is not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Clementyev: “It looks like traitors!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U531	76. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U532	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U533	77. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U535	78. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U536	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U537	79. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U538	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U539	80. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U540	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U541	81. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U542	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U543	82. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U544	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U545	83. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U546	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U547	84. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U548	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U549	85. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U550	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U551	86. - Member Dalder's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U553	87. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U555	88. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U556	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U557	89. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Partly supported and included 90. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U558	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U559	90. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U560	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U561	91. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U562	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U563	92. - not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U564	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U565	93. - Inta Dalder's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U566	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U567	94. - A proposal from Member Inta Dalder. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U568	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U569	95. - not supported. Not put to the vote...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U570	Members shall not object. Neither is there a vote, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U571	95, 96, 97 and 98. - so that cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U572	These are not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U573	99, 100 and 101 - neither can we vote, because we have not previously supported the proposals made by Member Inta Dalder.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U574	Therefore, these proposals cannot be put to the vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U575	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Request to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U576	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - no, for - 19. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U577	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 18 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U578	Thank you. Proposals are due by 18 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Geospatial Information Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U579	Madam President, Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Geospatial Information” (No 1120/Lp12). This draft law, as a proposal for second reading, also includes the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Geospatial Information" (No 1193/Lp12). In total, three proposals were examined by the Commission. The first proposal came from the draft law “Amendments to the Geospatial Information Law” (No 1193/Lp12). The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U580	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U581	The proposal is also from the draft law on Amendments to the Geospatial Information Law (No 1193/Lp12). The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U582	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U583	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U584	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U585	Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined all the proposals and, on behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U586	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Geospatial Information Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U587	Let us wait until May 2, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U588	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 2 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U589	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses’ (No 1195/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined this draft law. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has established the need to improve the conditions of technical nature according to amendments made by other laws, as well as to be able to successfully implement the norm regarding the official electronic address, including regulation on the conditions of e-address creation, deletion of information, priority of the use of the e-address account in cases where technical and regulatory acts establish decentralised electronic communication tools. Also provides for an obligation for the natural person after deactivation of the official electronic address account... If it wishes to use electronic communications for communication with the institution and for receipt of documents, other means of communication should be indicated. In the Commission, this draft law was endorsed at first reading. I call on you fellow Members to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U590	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U591	Thank you. Let us also wait until 2 May this year for the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U592	Proposals should be submitted by 2 May of this year. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U593	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The meeting of the Committee on European Affairs is now on our premises!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U594	Name for the statement to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U595	Dear colleagues, Five minutes later, the meeting of the Education, Culture and Science Commission. So, in the commission's premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U596	Name to Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U597	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Aleksandrs Jakilovs, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Nally Kleinbergs, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols... Yes, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Alexey Loskutov... There is, Roman Money, Sergey Potapkins and Dzintars Zaķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U598	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U599	I call on Members of the Saeima to take their seats in the Chamber so that we can continue with the Saeima... I'm asking the Technical Department to check the microphones! Microphones are on. ( Pause) ( Pause) Can we resume the Saeima sitting after a break? So we can. On the agenda - draft law on gardening, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inguna Rībena.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U600	Dear colleagues, ‘ Law on Gardening, first reading. The project “Loktendarzs” has been implemented since 2005 and is carried out by a non-profit organisation – the foundation “KOKENCE FUND”. Its aim was and is to create a cultural and historical memorial site in Koknese, on the island of Krievkalns due to totalitarian regimes of the 20th century. Currently, the ownership of a project, a large part of which has already been implemented, belongs to the COCNES FUND. The Saeima must vote in favour of the draft law in order to transfer the Lykendarz, which is known by the whole Latvian society and which has been formed by a large part of our people, to the State. The draft law is intended to maintain the existing financing structure for project development, and no new institutions will be established. The purpose of the Act is to ensure the preservation, protection, development and succession of the Garden, which will be taken care of by the “KOKENCES FUND” and the Ministry of Agriculture. The Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima at first reading supported this draft law unanimously. I also ask you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U601	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U602	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! When it comes to Lykendarz, first of all, I want to express my respect and appreciation for the work carried out there by Vilis Vītols and the COCNES FUND. And, of course, we must support it! But before we go... We led this bill very quickly. But it's time to stop and think so seriously. Because there is one important dividing line here: if so far it was one private initiative and it was voluntary donations, then we are now moving to a situation where there is a claim and, in essence, should be linked to the state budget and to a targeted country's cultural policy. In this respect, I would like to point out three things that we should follow in the further examination of this draft law. Firstly, linking to the public budget package. Secondly, it is necessary to consider carefully whether instead of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is now a responsible institution for the State, should not, however, oblige the Ministry of Culture. And, thirdly, see their context with similar projects. For example, today we will see the Pedvāle Art Park Law project, and there will be some others. A little more than that. On the budget. The draft law records: the state and the municipality can support. Hence, it is not mandatory as if no burdens were imposed. You can, but now you can't. Well, that wouldn't be a good style that we should strive for: as if we can, but well, let's not support it for the time being. It would really be just as a pre-election blink. We'll need the money there. Those who have been in the garden, who have followed - and also appear in the bill - are aware that there is an additional land purchase there, there are unfinished buildings. And if we are talking about an ambitious and responsible country's cultural policy, there will also be a need for a state budget. For the idea of Lykendarz himself. There are many pains and aches, and this is Latvian history. Vilis Vītols also talked about the future dimension in the development of the idea, about the future dimension of hope, which should also be there - in Liktendarz. I think it has not developed there yet. And the future of a nation cannot only be built on the avalanches of the past, no matter how deep it is. And one Member who had previously voted against or did not take part in the vote told me that now the symbolic Latvian sun is setting up in Daugava, we have to look at it. Others objected: There is one Buddhist who has developed something in the whole architecture. I think that these are prejudices and Latvians should see themselves in the perspective of the future as well as in the context of the world. But to offset these prejudices, a targeted cultural policy is needed. And it will need public budget resources. And here we come to the question: why is the Ministry of Agriculture, not the Ministry of Culture, the responsible institution? I allow there to be transactions with the lands and make trees more suitable, because some experts point out that they have already been drawn up in such a way that it will have to be raided and thought how to deal with it. Yeah, that's one important thing. But if we are talking about this mission, about tasks that are also recorded in the draft law, namely the maintenance of collective memory and related activities, education and cultural events, international and local tourism, then I say: I do not forget this future perspective and dimension - it is now not a matter of involvement of the Ministry of Agriculture; there I think the involvement of the Ministry of Culture is necessary. And the third. You need to look at this in conjunction with other objects. Of course, if we Members are only waving forward, showing our good will at this time, and do not think how we can do it... Ladies and gentlemen, are we not going to be so irresponsible?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So we're looking at other similar objects! The issue of Pedal will already be addressed today. And when I speak of Pedval, where there are 100 hectares - much more - and Mr Feldberg, I will say: all due respect, but history is the same! There, too, we will have to think about the resources. And you're not gonna stop with the Pedval. I'll remind you that we have Lesthenes. And right, I'll tell you about Lesten - it doesn't deserve less attention than these two other objects. It is one historical, authentic place, and there lies not only stones that are in these two objects, but also people – young Latvian people. And there is a church, which is a cultural and historical pearl. And there's a road that's not going. And I know that many could already say, “We think about it a long time ago.” Very good! I will not be able to submit when this draft law will be... Leave me the second number in this bill on Leschen status if you can! I'll be among the applicants, too. But what do I want to call? At the moment, we were very quick to be afraid of this project. That's good! By the time of the first reading, we were stuck. But to the Commission, Mr Aldi Adamovič, we now need to look at this issue further in the following contexts: targeted national cultural policy (not so - we can but we cannot); budget (there must now be a budget). And I have to look at all these other projects -- Pedvall, Letten... and maybe there will be something else. Then we put all together, and maybe it turns out that there is a need for priorities. How do I break it up? Because you can't do everything! I understand: “How can you not be cool?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ This is a classic saying, but sometimes it ends badly. You can give the money to these... Which one? How much? What are the specific needs? Well, if you can't, this is a good template to leave to the next Saeima. Unfortunately! Technically, we will need a deadline for the submission of proposals. Well, it can obviously also be extended, as will be done with a similar draft law today. Because otherwise we'll have the same thing as... fast, fast and nothing can refuse... Now, there's going to be the same thing with those check bags: let's just... so far there will be relocation and opening up, but now it seems that there may be a deadlock too quickly - already before the elections. Since the speeches here are sometimes used to end with a strong desire to be like them and like them, I will say: we are moving forward on this draft law, but let us be on a thoughtful cultural policy that is a policy in the country, not a policy of pre-election of weaknesses.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U603	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U604	In full agreement with everything that Mr Latkovsky said, I hope that we will be able to deal with these many questions to some extent and answer them. The Commission has agreed that the deadline for submitting proposals is 25 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U605	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on gardening! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. The rapporteur said that the deadline proposed by the Commission for the submission of proposals was 25 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Riga Stradins University”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inese Aizstrauta.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U606	Dear... Members....
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U607	Please, Tech, microphone!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U608	Should I speak louder? No, I got it, thank you. The microphone is on. Thank you. Thus, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Riga Stradins University” and has supported it at first reading. The amendments are aimed at a few things. The draft law provides for the exclusion of the constitutional regulation of the university on the Audit Commission, it provides for clarification of the functions of rectors. There are some amendments to the library, which is a unit. The draft law provides for clarification of the procedure for the election of academic staff, and several editorial amendments have also been made. I call for support to be given to the draft law tabled at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U609	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Riga Stradins University”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U610	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 2 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U611	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 2 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U612	Colleges saw amendments to the General Education Law at the Education, Culture and Science Commission yesterday. The votes shared in the Commission but, with a majority, the Commission has supported the examination of these amendments at the first reading of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U613	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Varis Krumins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U614	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We have reached the current strange draft laws of the Ministry of Education and Science: Amendments to the Education Act and Amendments to the General Education Act. Here we can find everything. In Latvian, there are both cabbages, herrings and potatoes. And of course too much butter. Both directly and by way of transmission. It is completely incomprehensible why the existing education system is fundamentally destroyed and changed to an unapproved system in Latvia, a critical system of experienced educators. It is the experienced educators who are most critical of their system. It is clear that the current system is not perfect and substantial improvements are needed. However, it is precisely the current system that gives us the winners of world-class school Olympics, excellent students and famous scientists. Great artists, singers, cultural workers, architects, athletes and - recently - IT specialists who have been demanded around the world have grown up from the same education system. I'm sorry, because everyone can't even be named! Why do we need to take care of others again? Can we really not be different? Why does the Ministry of Education and Science want to start producing illiterates in a mass way? With skills, but without knowledge. What is in the interest of Latvia not to have wise students and knowledgeable employees anymore? Why start learning from six years of age and teach children who are only able to keep their attention for about 10 minutes at the age of six? Recently I visited my relatives in Liepaja, and we played such a game with cards to commemorate. The girl, who is just six years old, had already been tired of this game after five minutes, where after 10 minutes, when she had to change the field of attention and go do something completely different, but not anymore what we started with and what she herself really wanted to play. Why do we need competence education? Is it just because a couple of countries with completely different cultures have been introduced? Just forget that there are two parallel educational models in those countries, one being implemented in private schools with iron discipline and extensive knowledge, and the other being free education based on so-called competences. You can mention three times when schools go to study but prepare low-skilled workers! Does Latvia need this? Does Shadursky personally benefit? But maybe you need to be like a basketball -- don't do what everybody does. Create your youth basketball league, which we are surrounded by across Europe. I have trained a lot of youth teams, and all the big countries are surprised that Latvia, for example, is playing six teams (three for boys, three for girls) regularly at the highest European division, going to the world championships; that we can show such high results with such a small population. Thanks to this system created in Latvia, we have medals. There's no gold yet, but there's something to pursue. We have two NBA players who are currently active players. There have also been before those who have grown up from this system. Large teams still have everything in front of them; they do not have medals since the restoration of their independence yet, but it is likely that they will soon be, as the players of that generation are now getting mature. This is the system that has been established in Latvia. Do we really have to copy everything from anyone else? And at the same time, should all kinds of schools be present? Perhaps we need to deal with the general education system first - pre-school, primary, secondary, state gymnasium - and then get to know others? Why, for example, should these amendments include, at the same time, the education of social correction under the auspices of the Ministry of Education and Science and the educational adjustment programme, as well as programmes for the implementation of specific education? Special education reforms need to be postponed because the Ministry of Education and Science itself is not ready for the reforms and work on these reforms has not been completed. The task force should only close its work on this issue in October 2018. So how can we decide on this issue responsibly today? I think we can't. Today, the Ministry of Education and Science is proposing mechanical changes without any consequences; it is proposing unrealistic deadlines for implementation of these reforms. It is not possible to mention the brutal plan for the destruction of boarding schools, which is being implemented under the leadership of this government and this minister of education and science. Some boarding schools still breathe and try to survive. It is clear that the consequences of the elimination of this type of school will be felt for a long time, and the least of all will, of course, be felt by general education schools, which will now have to receive and train these children 24 hours a day. And soon it will also be felt by a society that will fight against all the consequences of this reform. Now, a little bit about the education of competences. Since these draft laws are being examined together, I will talk to both of them once. I will ask you a few questions. Of course, yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, there were so many questions that employees of the Ministry of Education and Science could find neither time nor answers to these questions. One of the questions is about this: are there approved training programmes, which will have to work from 1 September 2019 with the new content? The answer is: “Yes, in a hundred pilot schools where these pilot projects are carried out, we approve.” It's not the approval of a curriculum, but it's just an exchange of ideas, because there's no one. In addition to these hundreds of pilot schools, there are some 650 more who can only understand what is happening in them one hundred more. If the Ministry of Education and Science knows, follows these projects and finances them, then there is no public question about the activities of these schools, and it is too early to put this reform into practice if there is no one hundred percent clarity and conviction as to how all this will happen in life. Question two: Where are the methodological materials with which teachers will work? Or will there be complete chaos, for every teacher will choose what, when, and how? Where are the training programmes? There is no answer to that question. Thirdly. What learning resources are needed and needed to implement the new education model, which from 1 September 2019 must come into force? Are existing teaching aids in line with the new content and available to all pupils from that date? And will computers be supplied to those who cannot buy them? Because, as we all know well to learn the new content, computers will be vitally necessary for every student. Question 4. How many subjects will be covered by each class, and how will the Ministry of Education and Science divide hours by subject? Will there be a structure of hours, and what will it be? This was the only question that Mr Catlaka personally answered. He said: “All things will be for you. You will have everything once.” I very much hope that on 8 or 9 May, at the next meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, to which these employees from the Ministry of Education and Science will come, they will have presented themselves beautifully on paper and we will see these hours split into classes and objects. Next. What will ultimately be the evaluation system in schools? We heard something yesterday, but that was not convincing. Are you sure class 1-3 tutors will have to write novels from life? When my children grew up, there was also such a method common. And let me be honest: Both the daughter and the son had the same assessment of success. Only with one difference: one was written in women, the other was written in men's birth. Six. Of course, about sports. ‘ Three in one’ - it’s beautiful. Coffee, milk, sugar - mixes, and everything is ready. But if I want only one of these three, how do I get it? Sport, health, safety. Well, of course, all this goes together, but only in appropriate proportions, just like “three in one” drink. Unfortunately, it is offered at interstates because sport does not have time. What is 114 hours a year for sport? It's two hours a week. That's a lot? No, that's little! The Ministry of Education and Science wants to include “three in one”. Health education must be taught separately; safety also needs to be given time; but sport must not take it away. I am strongly against the destruction of sport in school and its transformation into a play. Young children can play, but the school should teach an object proudly called “sport”. Perhaps you should also learn how to play in the water, as it is now recorded in the program? So maybe we can also learn to play on the street because there are times when cars don't go on the street? Just run aside right now! And so we could go on indefinitely. There are many such questions and, of course, they will be very difficult to answer. We call for a reflection and a reduction in the number of reforms. To order Minister Šadurskis to complete the so-called actions “as others” already achieved in the amendments of the law; to resolve the issue of boarding schools, as January 2019 is almost present. Schools must know what will happen to them by 1 September 2018. Postpone ideas for mixing the content of special school reorganisation. Perhaps, though, to deal with finding funding for the social cushion of educators, not with embracing the entire government? Not to say: "I have already reformed, but the consequences and responsibilities, and the necessary funding, let someone else take on." We ask the Minister to first discuss and agree with the local authorities on the feasibility of implementing reforms. Effective changes are not introduced from above. Latvia is a democratic state, therefore, we have to take into account the majority of the people, not one minister in the name of the survival of his party... not at the expense of the children. We are in favour of change, but not the creation of hysterical conditions in schools. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U615	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U616	Dear colleagues, As far as I can see, then there is a really great rush if yesterday's bill is to be led to today's sitting. And why do we need to change the law? Putting in place a competence approach in educational content. Mr. Krumina told you a little bit about it. Reads the annexation of the law with the idea that such a law should necessarily have involved the specialists of the highest assay. But what do we see? A brief, vague description of the competence approach, which cannot serve as an objective basis for the reform of the entire content of education, of teaching and training work and of the education of educators. A scientific educational explanation? A justification based on evidence? Why do you want that? Trust the officials! Without the throughput of skills and other miracles, the best prepared for us by the most bright minds of the Ministry of Education and Science is an annotation of this skill - to think about thinking. Scientists of the Ministry, whose competence has to be questioned only by reading some phrases from the annotation, are directing this draft law with the aim of experimenting with faster child learning from six years of age and imposing a model of learning content based on different assumptions from foreign countries. What cannot be seen in the annotation is the parents of Latvia, the people of Latvia and the state of Latvia as the main clients of education in the country. The authors of the annotation have pointed out that the approach of competences is an approach consistent with the demands of society in the 21st century, which envisages a person's life in a constantly changing environment. What is meant by the words “a 21st century society”? And what is the demand of this unspecific society? What can be seen behind these words is a global order that is in the interest of creating the employees of the global labour market that they want. The political pressure of the reform is also confirmed by public statements by Zane Oliņa, the project manager for the content of the reform. There is no teaching term such as “access to competences” in the sense that we use it in the context of this project in Latvia. The project introduces it according to the decision of the public and the fact that it is important for students to develop skills in the 21st century at school. This is the basic skills framework defined by the European Union, from which the political term "a competence approach" refers to the objective of developing knowledge, skills and attitudes relevant to life in the 21st century for students in the learning process. Latvia's aim as a national education target in the content of education presented for public consultation, for which 887 proposals were received, cannot be seen in the annotation. Reforms are needed to create a common understanding among all those involved in education that the aim of school and pre-school is the ability and willingness of children and young people to act in unprecedented situations of complex life, both for themselves and for the benefit of society and the world. To describe the impersonality and absurdity of our educational goal, I will quote the educational and school objectives in Estonia, which has also recently carried out educational reform and developed new educational standards. According to the Estonian standard of primary education, Estonian schools are responsible for the protection and development of Estonian nations, languages and culture. At the end of primary school, the student is aware of and understands his place and future role in the family, work, life, society and country. It is in that order, in a priority order where the family is the first. Annotation of the draft law also conceals the bitter experience of countries that have implemented similar reforms due to political pressure. The authors of the Latvian reform in order to engage in the international exchange of views have been inspired by the experience of Scotland, where the ideologically similar reform Curriculum for Exellence has just concluded. It has for a total of eight years. Unfortunately, the true public report of this experience is silent, because when conducting international studies on the impact of Scotland's excellence programme on Scottish educational performance, it turns out that according to PISA's latest indicators, Scottish students' performance is the worst ever. Access lacks an academic basis and is destructive for the student. The launch and implementation of the reform has led to confusion throughout Scotland. The excellence programme should be redesignable and re-launched. The situation is similar in another OECD Member State, New Zealand, where several educational reforms were implemented between 2000 and 2010 due to ideological pressure. It was stressed that strategy for problem-solving was important, not memory. Deep learning, deep thinking. Not to learn multiples, but to find at least three different strategies. As a result, math knowledge for New Zealand pupils has fallen. The same applies to literacy and science. Experts blame the reform of education directly. He even claims that it has fooled a generation. All these risks are also fully applicable to Latvia. The new content of teaching is oversaturated by ideology, just like scientific communism in Soviet times. The drivers of reform, overexploitation of our children, are also eagerly implementing the programme for the elimination of gender stereotypes in education required by Article 14 of the Unsupported Istanbul Convention. Many translations from various foreign documents have been used in the new content; this shows that the project has been developed formally and in a great hurry. The content reform intends to continue the non-nivelation of the Latvian language as the mother tongue, continuing to teach it as a foreign language. Such an approach to education has already been introduced in 1992, and although practice has shown that it has had a negative impact on the quality of the student language, the authors of the reform refuse to be aware of and critically evaluate the consequences of this approach. The entrenchedness of the Reformers is already similar to the deliberate evil of the Latvian language as the mother tongue. Colleagues! You all shouted here today, adjusted Mr. Nanozol, but how many people, how many of you can correctly write such a simple word as "population"? Do you know that people who have finished school have the word “envelope” written in two letters “p”? You know how recently school-ends write the word “all”? Two letters ‘s’. Such an unsubstantiated project, colleagues, cannot go further. At the moment, all the reform documents - concept, standards and programmes - are at the development and approval stage. Training methods are being developed for unapproved standards and programmes. For unprepared educators it is a cat in a bag that we are invited to vote for. And, of course, it has to be driven through during this Saeima. Who is a normal, adequate public official at this pace through the main reform of the Saeima for our future and children? Finally, colleagues, all the young is well forgotten old. When in 1982 students at primary school drew the words “Talsi is theatre”, “Lenin is good”, an experiment with six-year-old education also took place. Beds and toys were bought for children, but soon this experiment failed. Children in later school classes began to have problems with sooting and burning out of premature psychological, emotional, and intellectual overload. It is not known what colleagues are planning to build with their meaningful skills through modern "communism" reform. But looking at the objectives of the new reform and the way the reformers see the child, there is a certain similarity with the Soviet era. In 1985, students of general education schools had the following goal: to become the USSR, their socialist homeland, worthy citizens, active communism builders, who implement the wishes of the great Lenin. Nothing has changed, colleagues! Child as a screw, as an element of the system to achieve goals. Although Mr. Vējonis made it clear in 2016 that he was against six-year-old education, only a small child's hope remains that this time the President will object. What should happen if drivers think about children, not about their five-year plan to build communism, about almost EUR 20 million? Several non-governmental organisations, teachers, psychologists, trade unions, municipalities and more than 10 thousand people in the Manabals.lv portal stood against the reform of the six-year-olds, which is the starting stage for the ambitious content reform. Is money really more important than the future? Dear colleagues from the coalition! We know that you too are dissatisfied with this reform, and you are constantly giving it critical words in the culuars. Colleagues, who does not allow you to reject it? What terrible secrets are kept for you by the Minister of Education and Science that you cannot freely express your attitude at once during this Saeima? I call on all of you not to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U617	Name to Member Andris Morozov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U618	Hello, colleagues! I believe that these unprepared amendments cannot be further developed and implemented. First of all, Latvian school infrastructure is not ready for simultaneous implementation of 30 reforms. Its so-called reforms are actually experiments with children, their parents and teachers. These experiments already create tensions in society and especially in the oldest ones. But we continue to complement almost every meeting with new, endless experiments. There is absolutely no clarity about any area of education - neither about the school network itself, nor about the workload of teachers, nor about the introduction of new content, the methodological approach and materials, the introduction of European Union projects in education of interest, career education, support for early school leavers, the amount and sources of funding needed for reforms, the remuneration of workers. And it could go on forever. At the moment, the minister of education and science is not able to explain and describe everything he has designed normally to do for anyone, but simply push them down to the schools themselves so that they can be dealt with, as he knows, and, moreover, within terms that cannot be included even if money is available. This is not possible, however, as a transitional period is needed to adapt to the new circumstances. It seems to me that any reasonable person understands that reforms in a field as sensitive as education should not be carried out mechanically, simply by cutting, reducing, increasing and not counting on the fact that experiments are carried out with children. You can, of course, say that children perceive everything well and adapt easily, but in fact, the fact that we are easy to adapt to something when we are a child does not mean that all children are equally well aware of change, and ultimately there are also children with special needs... There are special schools that, by the way, are also involved in these Shadursky experiments, and they will have to deal with all the same problems as conventional schools. Let us not forget, too, that a special working group is working on the reform of vocational education, which only needs to be completed in July or October this year. Secondly, I would like to touch on the issue of sending children to schools from six years of age. Scientists, experts and simple research... studies have been carried out to show that children at this age are not yet ready for school. Such child abduction has psychological consequences for children, which will affect them further in life. In this case too, however, there is clearly nothing. Children are provided both with a dining room and with different tables and steps. The Ministry has recognised and understands that it is not possible to do all this in schools for both financial and purely technical reasons. As a result, this problem is solved simply: part of the first class classes are kept in kindergartens and then send children to school in second class immediately. First-class schools have always performed adaptation, empathy function, so that children can find themselves in kindergarten environment, get used to more serious classes and learn training in second-class schools. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a large part of the proposed changes are aimed at reducing, eliminating and prohibiting. It is no longer even irresponsible. It's annoyance and obscurity! I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U619	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U620	Dear colleagues, This is one of those times when I am very happy to see that there are, however, many debates, because at times we have been talking a lot longer about matters of much less importance. But here we are talking about the content according to which future generations will learn, and in the foreseeable future such a major reform of education, there is no reform of the content of education. So, in this case, I am calling on everyone - irrespective of political affiliation - to look into matters and try to understand what we are voting on, what we are talking about. Education of competences involves so many myths, so many different stereotypes, as with few other questions. And they are often myths called "education of competences" rather than real offers. And it is very important, in my opinion, to distinguish between these things, because it is not essential, as we call something. The question is what we put in this content. And if we are talking about new content, the first question to begin is this: are we satisfied with the current education system and the results that the education system is giving us at the moment? How can we view the education system? One of the indicators is international comparisons, international research data, which shows how, in certain disciplines, our students look at the background of students from other countries. And what are the main conclusions? The conclusions are that we are not very bad and that we are not very good. We are quite average right now with our achievements. We have little excellence, and we have few illiteracy. This is a small level, and we can be happy about that. But we also have little excellence, so we are quite average. That's one of these bright signs. Another sign of research is that our students can learn very well, but problems arise at a time when they need to apply this knowledge to unusual situations where knowledge needs to be transferred to a new, unprecedented environment, to be able to interpret it. And, please, in today's circumstances, when we can't tell anyone what future professions will be, the future requirements for current students, who would be more young people to develop if not the ability to adapt to different situations with their information baggage? In my view - as we would call it - the objectives defined by this new content are generally correct and supportive, and they indicate that knowledge is important and will always remain important. You can't draw conclusions about relationships if you don't have a knowledge base. But knowledge is not the only criterion: we need to understand how to apply it. And there must be more emphasis on it. Competence education has been introduced in many schools and is not a revolutionary new one. But with this reform, the country now wants to say what we think in the education system, in line with today's challenges and in line with the experience of other countries... which needs to be given greater emphasis. It is said that, alongside knowledge and skills, more emphasis should be placed on attitudes that we have not so clearly talked about so far. So it's valuable education. Which of those present, including those who are currently opposed, will say that value education is not important? Of course, this poses risks, because if we recognise that values need to be raised in schools, questions arise. What are the values? Who will implement these values? There are many problems and challenges. But, as you say, this goal of competence education is the right one. It is right that these fundamental truths are that what a student learns in one subject must be compatible with what he learns in another subject; that he must learn to teach himself, that he must learn the culture of contact, that he must be creative, develop ambition, motivation. This is how the education system is currently lacking and what is currently being talked about. Of course, the reform is extremely ambitious; it means there are problems. Never will such major reforms make all of us feel good. Well, we're going to see some as good and we're going to mind some. And that's what it is. That devil is hiding in detail. And there's a lot of details still... and colleagues in the Commission will confirm that when Mr Catlaka comes to account, too. I am talking about these details every sitting, I am trying to defend my position, but we must not deny that we need to go with time, we need to formulate the main points in the education approach, which are essential for the competitiveness of our young people and for the comprehensive development of personality. Many of the problems that have been raised today are not linked to the content of the new competences. I completely agree that we can discuss the fact that we are too... over-reliance in the education system has allowed us to have absolutely no standards. I know that many will not agree with me, but I am also a member of some standard approach in sports hours. It seems to me that there is a need for something not only to recommend, but also to have a minimum of compulsory literature. So all these are details that need to be discussed and can be discussed, but this is a discussion that already exists. It is unbound; it is nothing new that is currently being offered in the new educational content. Go on. If we are talking about specific draft laws, the problem is that they involve a great many different elements. We also understood in the Commission that it is difficult to focus on each individual issue, because there are very many issues that have been raised, covered. These draft laws are, in fact, the first steps towards the introduction of competence education. Then it is about six-year education, which is again a completely separate story. And again... Well, the details of the case are to be decided. If the case is resolved by what environment is happening... not what we call that class, but what the environment will be... or the municipality will be able to choose, for example, at the preschool institution to continue this, which will now be named... with the first class implement or not, and so on. I agree that... So there's this six-year-old education. There are questions about special education and many others. But these issues have to be considered at the same time, because all these are related questions. They may not be separated from each other. And I agree that, unfortunately, the discussion in the working regime that we have had is perhaps not enough. There has been too little opportunity to discuss the issue of six-year-old education to the bone. At the commission meeting, I also asked the chairman of the commission that perhaps we should hold further meetings of the working group outside the usual meetings, and that meetings for each item would be more detailed. Thank you to Janīna Kursīte-Pakulė, for example, for educational issues, questions about Latvian language, literature, drama and individual events, which are discussed in the context of competence education. Meetings are held and these issues are examined in great detail. So let's remember that there are and there will be many myths on these issues, because I know people tell them that there will be no more homework and no more marks, but when it is asked specifically whether there will be no literature, where it is written, from which it comes, then it cannot be shown. And in reality, a lot of this is not true. Of course, we cannot guarantee what is going to happen, as is the case with any reform, because it depends on those who are currently running the project - mainly on teachers, teachers who will have to spend it through themselves, in popular terms, to interpret and deliver it to a student. We cannot guarantee this result, but we can try to do what is up to us now. And to this, colleagues, I also call on us not to be afraid of what we do not know, but to go into what we do, to take steps forward and not to spread myths that competence education is the opposite of what happens in prestigious European schools or private institutions with high results. I mean, on the contrary, these methods... there long before we, this discussion is taking place, these methods are used, and they are in no way contrary to the acquisition and extent of knowledge. I appeal, colleagues, to support both this and the related draft legislation at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U621	The name of the Member, Inese Boki.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U622	Hello, colleagues! I also want to say a few words, and above all with regard to Article 32. There is a spring in nature and Latvian Forest Days are currently taking place in full swing. We are planting quality forests for future generations. The same is true in education. I would like to compare these six-year-olds and seven-year-olds with small pine trees, spruces and funerals. When and how will we “plant them ” in the first class? Speaking in forester terminology, everyone had, has and will have their own growth conditions, and this must be taken into account. So, in my opinion, starting with either six or seven years of learning, it should be entirely individual to rely on each student's abilities. They should be determined not by very complicated legislation and various extenuating papers, but by three readings of the draft law, to leave it entirely to parents, educators and, in some cases, experts, so that its transition can take place calmly: who wants - from six who wants - from seven years of age. I have visited quite a lot of schools in my work and, believe me, they are very, very different. Not just within the city... But in the countryside, this situation is even more complicated and different, and there this decision to start from six or seven years of age also depends in many ways on the circumstances it will be. But, at the same time, I would like to say that, regardless of how we reform it, and it will not be easy, we must, after all, make sure that students under the age of 18 complete the 12th grade. Believe me, one part of the school step is waiting for those 18 years, when the sad start of another – adult life: clubs and so on. And I don't think it's needed in high school. I understand there's a lot of work in front of... The start of school from six years is just one step. However, I would like to emphasise that it is very important that this reform of education, which we will now, I hope, finish well, will provide clarity for at least five years, perhaps even for a longer period, so that there is no longer any particular breakage of these laws. They must, of course, be improved, but they must be clear and, at the same time, also clear. And the whole system of education programmes is very important to set its goal. There will probably also be a debate on the learning times and the lengths of semesters, because we see very well that many people want different subjects here, but time is as long as they are, and so I call on the whole to support and direct the draft law as quickly as possible, but at the same time there must be concreteness, clarity, because having discussed we are many and dictators, but it is unlikely that we will get to it somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U623	Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U624	Dear colleagues, I would like to name a few facts or ask myself, ‘ When do I start teaching? ’ One young mother asks people who know: “When to start teaching me a child?” Answer: “How old is your child?” - "Two." - “You have been late for two years.” That's the first. In different countries, different nations start teaching in different ways. Clearly, countries with no schools or only adults can be found earlier or now. Doesn't even teach. These are different. But one fact. You're talking about sport. When my daughter went to a kindergarten, she walked from sports organizations through kindergartens, selected, for example, for figure skating. From four years on, he has been involved in figure skating. Today there was a girl to whom we granted Latvian citizenship, confirmed. I think she also started to do sports not at a certain age, but very, very early. I have a question: whether mathematicians, physicists and so on - whether they are not worthy of them as well... Maybe there are talents... and start earlier finding them? My granddaughter sometimes explains how to work with her phone. Students know new technologies even better than their grandparents or parents. Let us remember another fact. In France, recently, a month ago, the President confirmed that he had to start training from three years. The fact that many of the three years in France have already been studied was before, but he... That those poor people... where it was not formally established that... It was confirmed from three years. Look at the countries of the European Union! There are different countries, but there are very few countries that start from seven years of age - a lot, a much smaller number. And I would like you to think about these issues and recommend: let us not limit those talented children who may be able to develop more quickly, let us not leave them any limits on not being taught, trained and delayed. Of course, we are different. One learns faster, the other slower, but give the opportunity - well, this is a practice of the 21st century. Thank you. I am in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U625	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U626	Hello! Some of the gentlemen who criticise the fact that I, as an engineer builder, propose my amendments to the law, I would also like to inform you that I have not only been an entrepreneur of different profiles, but I have also been an employee of the Ministry of the Interior, a firefighter, as well as a teacher. And so at this point, as a teacher with a five-year period, as a deputy director of the Ranka School of Agricultural Education on teaching and production issues, I can also express my opinion on what is going on. I support, in principle, what is involved in learning from the age of six. My older son, Kristaps, began to learn from six years of age, and no fault. The only thing I would like to say specifically about the education system... When I was in charge of the Ranka vocational school for the education system, it could be compared with Žiguli, who performed well on both roads and on rural roads. Then began Atmoda, one person came, said: “No, “The Žigulis” isn’t so good for people, let’s put something into it from French automobile.” Put in place something from French automobiles, found that now don't go the car any more as needed. Then he said, “Let’s introduce something from Japan’s car into this mirror!” It was introduced from Japanese automobiles. Don't go again! Then German cars. For the moment we have that education system -- well, nothing. What hurts me the most is the essential bob in actual knowledge. And we embarrass, torture it, and so on. I don't know what it's being done for. And maybe some who have only black and white won't like what I'm going to say now. But I am very grateful to the Soviet education system that averaged the student... The only thing I want to say is... I like the Soviet system also because it was a chess school. As a mediocre student, I was made a successful businessman, a leader of the people. But we've somehow lulled this system, destroyed it, and now we're looking at this reconstructed “Gyguli”: what to do with it? This “Guest” doesn’t go! Then we need to get together for a while and think about what to do. And what really horrends me most (I agree with Ravim) is that we have been left in the Soviet era... When we had values and had something else... I had a lot of responsibilities... Now we have one value: money, and there are no other values. None! Sorry, I can protest at any time if someone tells me, “No, there are!” I will say: “No! See, the public says it's not good, it's different." That is why I am calling for: maybe we are ending suffering it in our education system! Let's stop hurting it! ( Internouncing call.) The best... I offer to return to Soviet times.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U627	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U628	Hello, fellow Members, again! I have a question. Why does the government not propose the introduction of compulsory primary education at the age of five? Why not start at the age of four? You can bring beds into the schoolroom, write guidelines, even get funds from the European Union for the training of educators. I do not know your answer to this question. However, if you provide a reply, please refer to the entire set of arguments for starting training from six years onwards. Can all six - year - olds focus on learning? Can you keep your mind on the subject of instruction, even in the form of a game? Is it not more important for a child to fully allow himself to play a game that learns communication skills and continues to get acquainted with the world in the most convenient way for the child? I believe that the starting age of primary education should not be defined by law. The parents and guardians of the child should be able to choose the age at which the child should be taught at school. Some children are too early to begin school at the age of seven, because they have not yet played enough of their own games. Let us also remember that it is in the game - especially in the game! - rapidly developing child-specific independence, which is the basis of any creative person. A surprising start to basic education can slow down the comprehensive development of children, not encourage it, and cause severe discomfort to school activities. There must be an individual approach to every child when deciding to start compulsory training, and parents should be free to choose when to send a child in the first class. The approach of the Ministry of Education and Science is far from similar to that vision, so I cannot support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U629	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U630	Dear colleagues, Mr. Amber, for the myths and for the values. The new content and standard projects proposed by the State Education Content Centre do not offer the orientation of children and young people to family life at all, although the legislative initiatives adopted in recent years require this – Article 10.1 of the Education Law, education guidelines, education development guidelines and even education reform planning documents, which intend to reduce the number of young people not prepared for family life. The social and civic learning outcomes to be achieved in the current public standard of basic education mean that the student, at the end of the 9th grade, is not focused on family and marriage life in the future, as defined in the legislation, but considers marriage as one of the choices of cohabitation. Here’s point 2.4.3.: “Displaying about partnership and marriage goals compares it with other models of relationships. Forms arguments for and against the initiation of sexual life in adolescents to express their views in the light of the arguments put forward.’ In a similar perspective, the concept of marriage is also described in the results achieved in the field of sport and health, at the end of grade 9. He critically assessed the benefits and disadvantages, the risks to the various models of human relations in society (e.g. conflict, cooperation, competition, marriage, partnership) in order to decide on the most desirable model for relations with other people. In Estonia, on the other hand, a separate course is devoted to preparing children for family life - family education within the framework of social knowledge in high school. In Lithuania, however, a programme has been developed in 2016 - sex education, health and preparation for family life - which is designed for learners from 1 to 12th grade and is in accordance with the new educational paradigm - the concept of good school. And it is not that I or another representative of a non-governmental organisation would not have turned to the Ministry of Education and Science and personally to Mr Šadurskis, showing him all the good things that Estonians and Lithuanians have achieved in their valuable educational standards, but unfortunately we remained unheard of. So I think you don't need to trick yourself, Mr. Amber! There is no valuable education in this content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U631	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U632	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Thank you for many points of view, criticism. When I started my career in the Saeima, I once said that Latvia needs to put the system in order first, to agree on a certain system, how it works from a newly born child to lifelong learning. We didn't do that. We're doing all that at our age. It's been a while, we've turned out to have to sort out... and start teaching children. I have enormous doubts as to whether this will be a normal process. I am forced to say that the Ministry of Education and Science together with the Members of the Saeima... because all decisions are made... Forgive me, but in the commission in which I now work... So we have seen the following projects - the principle of training guidelines, for seven years... We're sorry about that. Why? Because it was bad. And from 1992, many said, “Do not do it!” Because Australia suffered for 15 years. Latvia, thank God, only seven. Step by step a project where directors and teachers were paid dollars for teaching for three years on a particular system... It was cancelled. After the primary school was completed, when the student entered high school, he was able to choose the subjects he had to learn. My first derivative, my daughter, did not choose mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, or anatomy, or choose anything. They were optional. It was cancelled. Well, logically! How can you finish high school without these items? She finished. And by the way, it was also designed by the Ministry that exams can be chosen... which items in the diploma will have a mark. The rest are set-off. She chose the public teaching, history, Russian and English that she knew very well. And no problem! Secondary school diploma in order, but without mathematics, without these physical objects, about which in later years many implemented and said: “Breed! Why didn’t we choose the engineering professions!” It's basic mathematics! The methodologists of the subjects, who once knew what an object should be to pass through a ministry designed, rich, scientifically sound project, were replaced by the rapporteurs. Who is the rapporteur? The man who drives the process. That's it! He may not have any knowledge in mathematics or biology. He's a philologist. Forgive me, the kindergarten manager with university education runs, let's take the math industry in the ministry and tell me how much and what to do to make children smarter at school. Objects... In the early 1990 ’ s, we were in the ninth grade of primary school. That's it. By then, we had eight classes, and then we should not have said nineteen years in high school. Why do we have the 9th grade? Why are we not reforming it or changing it? Why do we not choose another model of the education system? You may, of course, say that the Ministry does not know, but, you forgive me, not over these years, since I was in the commission, nor has the Ministry now offered any model other than - let's start teaching children from six years of age. And there are statistics, a lot. I'll be right, you can read the documents. Mr. Chair is voting on this too. From six years on, many schools in the world... there are six-year-old training in many countries! Now I can tell you one. In some countries, I was among the many who teach children six years of age in the teaching of faith. In the Arab world, this is Koran. They don't teach educational subjects, they start teaching them from seven years. Why? I'd like to say pure... Mr Shadurski, Minister, asked not to speak politically, populistly, but professionally. I want to ask how many ministerial officials have listened to such subjects as practical pedagogy, where actual knowledge, theory is applied in practice and teachers teach how to do it. We ignore the fact that a child grows like a plant in nature. Does the tomato plant already give the tomato in the first month? No, no! It must grow to give the product. The same is true of a child. And we very much ignore this six-year-old child training system that we have in Latvia. Forgive me, why do we not ask the Ministry why it is not mandatory to introduce all five-year-old child training in pre-school? Although the law determines this, unfortunately it is based on... We have children from five years of age. Yeah, those who visit kindergarten. They do not learn for those with a baby, or for those who sit at home, perhaps with a baby. Six-year-olds too. And now we're taking those documents. We are now told: “We are going to fix it. There will be a lot of proposals in two readings." I'm sorry, the system must be changed, so that we don't have nineteen years there. And for children to develop, let me teach scientifically evaluated programs for five-year-olds and six-year-olds! The second part of Section 20 of the Law: “Children learn pre-school education programmes up to the age of six.” And now let's wake up. It follows that depending on the parents’ wishes or the doctor’s opinion, it will be possible to allow learning from seven years of age. Swipe it! A child in a kindergarten, whose parents want him to go to class 1, will have a child next to him whose parents do not want. The parents say, “You will only go from seven years.” At the same time, the teacher, the teacher, has to learn after two programmes, because they will not be the same, they will not be the same, they will be different programmes, and the biggest wonders will be when the six-year-old child completes grade 1, will go to grade 2 at the age of seven, but the seven-year-old student who studied after the kindergarten programme will go back to grade 1 of six-year-old. And here it comes... I think... I will also read immediately many of the issues that are very unsubstantiated. Article 45... I wanted to ask the Minister yesterday, but I was not given this opportunity by Mr Adamovich. ‘ The head of an education institution shall have the right to determine the forms of other training organisation and their duration in secondary education programmes.’ We come back to 1992, when we allowed seven years to do so, and what did it end with? With a terrible chaos, because who can tell me other forms of training organization? Name it! That's at high school. It's not in primary school. It's high school. This document, which we were asked to vote on... and Mr Adamovich will say loudly that everything we say is right; we will correct it. For 14 years, compulsory pre-school education has been established in Latvia. And literally some lines below: “... Since 2002, when a two-year compulsory pre-school education was established... “ Then what is the correct number? What do you think? We come in contradictions when we read those documents. The document states: “At present, 97 percent of all five-year-old children in the country and 92 percent of all six-year-old children in the country receive pre-school education programmes.” I have a question: why has the state not provided 100% normal training for all children? Why kids come to Class 1... This year too, this school year comes... one third of the class can't read or write, nothing at all? You think now, from six years on, you're going to... from the seven-year-old to the six-year-old children's education by destroying pre-school normal education, which is in Latvia, but only guaranteeing it for all children, will there be better knowledge? I doubt very much because a child develops between seven and nine years of age... only then develops, but not faster, binocular vision. I understand that many do not even understand what that means. A child can't understand the depth of space, the depth of space. He doesn't even have this concept. And that's why... Another thing you don't understand by many. A five-year-old and also a six-year-old child is best able to understand the principle of support when the teacher shows and the child first imitates, without knowing why to do so. He imitates, but only at the age of seven and eight he starts to understand the teams. I recommend all those who offer to teach their children general educational subjects from six years of age, whatever form they take, go to kindergarten and do. And take it on TV for your hour! I will tell you all the elements, work out, and then I want to see how intelligent you will speak and defend this project! The Minister's question remained unclear to me yesterday because he did not answer. I've offended him. My questions were as follows: why is it so urgent without an approval again... Is that so? In Finland, this project has been approved for eight years. Eight years! In Latvia, of course, we are much smarter! What are those stupid Finns out there, or not, for eight years chatted!Is that so? Switch to the new system without approval! I had a question: to justify scientifically that there is a need... What date should the European Union be accountable for about 34 million spent on implementing this project? Including competence-based education. Why is it not that the representatives of the University of Latvia in pedagogy and psychology - lecturers, doctors and professors, who might be even more scientifically able to justify whether they need their children from six years of age or not... because they prepare teachers, read lectures, and prepare young teachers. I hope you're not working in that department. Where is the Department of Music Teachers of the Latvian Academy of Music? Why is the discussion so important... For in kindergartens, it turns out, I don't need my students who have graduated from the Academy of Music. Don't! You understand, there's no state unit! It's taken off! And music has been made into four things... here, as far as competence is concerned, there are four things: literature, drama, visual art and music. And if a professor of visual art has a diploma, he can also present music. We've lived so far! ( Independence: “Propose 2nd reading! ” ) I want to hear from you so that you may not be burdened. — Dep. A.Kimiņš: “Nothing, nothing! Start from the beginning!’ )... I'm going to ask questions that were not asked by the commission... I won't be able to do this in a minute... First. What is the fiscal impact on the state and municipal budgets for the improvement of the environment of educational institutions, the acquisition of new teaching resources, the professional development of teachers? This question is not answered because... Nothing's going to pay. It's all right. It's all right. When is it planned to amend the regulatory enactments so that children of six years of age can receive basic education in an appropriate manner? And there is another 16 such questions. I'm not gonna take time... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Do not spend time!” ) Because... In order to be able to answer these questions, there must be transparency, transparency and no use of populism and, at any cost, is running through as today's amendments to the Law of the University of Higher Education... Just like... All the questions must be answered before we start to vote. I do not support these amendments to the Education Act. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U633	Dear colleagues, Members Dzintars, Dalderis, Brigmanis, Kaimiņš and Morozov are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? And the objections. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -5, for -1. Consequently, the decision was taken. The sitting of the Saeima will be held without interruption. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U634	It seems strange that the content of education is criticised by people who may represent the people who have studied in an educational institution 30 or 40 years ago and, in my opinion, have lost the link with the reality that exists today, in the 21st century. If it can be said that with the existing content everything is fine, then I think it is a very, very bitter lie. There are, in fact, many problems that arise in existing educational institutions. Although the knowledge with which young people come from educational institutions. Yes, they may be able to calculate various complex equations, but in practice they face very, very great problems because there is no understanding of how the taxes they have to pay in their future life are being created; they often do not have an understanding of what credit obligations mean, what annual interest rates, and so on. They often have no idea how to help others when they need it. But yes, they know different theories. And in these circumstances, it is no wonder that so many young people leave Latvia to work in low-skilled jobs, despite having obtained secondary education or even higher education (in some cases). I would say that there is another major problem that other speakers have unfortunately not even mentioned. Very many schools, in my opinion, do not motivate young people to learn and improve themselves... Mr. Kitten, too... He may find it difficult to keep his attention. And this is also the result of its existing education system. That is the result! And at the same time, we can be happy that at least there is a person who may not keep his attention, but who is able to get up and stand in front of the audience. Because a lot of young people, when they get secondary education and get to university... When they have to read their first report, they begin to cry, faint, do not come to university, because they are simply afraid to stand before the public. And all this has been achieved by an existing education system that destroys young people's self-confidence, destroys his courage! Young people are terrified; they stand at the teacher’s office door often for many minutes, fearing to knock on them. Do we want to continue? In my opinion, learning is much more effective when a young person learns in self-learning, but then, of course, there are many other issues. For example, teacher competence. In my opinion, one of the problems that exists in the existing education system is that it is very difficult for a teacher to accept the fact that a student can be more competent in a given field than he himself. Whether Informatics or English. There are examples that truly talented young people can compete on a high-quality basis with a teacher. And I think it is right in these circumstances that the teacher is not trying to drag this young man down, to say that he is doing something wrong, but on the contrary! - encourage him to progress even further, to move even faster and to reach even higher altitudes. The question of how old to end high school or how old to start primary school is, in my opinion, just as relevant. It seems to me that this is an abnormal situation where a nineteen-year-old or sometimes even twenty-year-old sits in high school. These are young people who have long had to start working and study at the same time in higher education. Not to leave universities, not to go to universities, but to work and learn! How can we achieve even more in other ways that young people receive basic or secondary education as soon as possible? I think the Ministry of Education and Science should also look at these opportunities. In particular, any young person who is in grade 7 if he is sufficiently knowledgeable could ask for a Class 9 exam, and he or she should be able to do so. And if a young person in grade 10 wanted to pass the 12th class exam, then it would also be an educational institution that would automatically provide this opportunity for him. If a young person is able to complete his education more quickly, he must give this one. — The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer. Option 2. I really share the concerns expressed by other colleagues about the values that have been inserted or could have been inserted into the new educational content. Not once in the format of different commissions, we have stressed that it is very important to ensure that national consciousness, patriotism, belonging to the country is one of the most important values that Latvia can give to young people. All the other values will be given to any other country, but the love of our fatherland can only be given to us. Only Latvia can give it. If we manage to qualitatively sort out this content of education and add the right values, then I think young people in the 21st century will already have a much higher quality. I want to look forward to thinking about my peers around the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U635	The name of Member Inese Sustrout.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U636	Dear colleagues, I would remind you that there are many issues in the General Education Act, not just the issue of six-year-olds. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Oh, well!” ) We have been talking only about six-year-olds for a few hours, but I will probably not be original. If the village wants to... OK, I can also talk to the village about eighteen-year-old children who finish school. Those who start from six years will finish seventeen years. The question is, will they be prepared for life? Is the child 17 years of age capable of deciding on further education? Young people also find it very difficult to choose their specialty when they are 18 years old, and then they realize that they have made a wrong choice. So if children from the age of six begin, then they will end at the age of 17, that means that these children will not be ready. But the question of six-year-olds. Are teachers ready? Are teachers ready to work with these children from six years of age? In the Commission, we understood that teachers are not ready. They admit that they do not understand how they will have to work: in a kindergarten or in a school? Next question. Are training programmes ready? Is Study Materials Developed? No, no! The Commission also had a representative of the Latvian Municipal Union, who was delegated from local governments. The question is: Are municipalities ready, have facilities, or are schools and kindergartens equipped to implement this reform? I am not saying that reform is not necessary at all, but reform must be considered, debated and made the right decision, because we are making a decision on children who have not yet been born. Next question. The day regime in mixed-age kindergarten groups if there is now a school. Where will children not of this school age seem to be? How will this group be divided, these children? The question of whether children should be released from six or seven years of age should be decided by the parents, not by us, to be released from six years of age, but if someone is not with all the other children, then to bring the doctor's sign that he is unable. You know, this point hurts me the most. This means that parents need to go to a doctor’s office and bring a doctor’s sign that the child cannot be equal to anyone else. How, then, will he begin to study at school from seven years of age? What do others say? If the children understand it, they're the seven-year-olds who've come to a six-year-old group... they will not accept them collectively. It will be very painful for these children. I call for this matter not to rush. It really affects children who have not yet been born. Think about it. I think that we will be able to discuss these issues much more in the next sittings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U637	Member Arvīds Platoper, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U638	Dear Members of the Committee. I will now add to what I was unable to say at the first time. Only 804 of the 18 241 children who began to study in this school year chose to learn from six years of age. That's 4.5 percent. So why didn't it be so massive this year, knowing it's been talked about for a long time? Why did the parents not choose? Ask a question and answer each one. Why only 4.5 percent? The Minister, Mr Shadursky, has proposed such a system, which has already been approved in very many countries. I will not call those countries. The last I met was Slovakia, which, 11 years after this system, is preparing its own long people who are running and representing the country in all areas. So the first year is... Five years, six years, and it's strictly defined for them as a pre-school... they are those two years. Then they study for 10 years. We'd be back to the mandatory high school. In 16 years, when a young child receives a passport, he can start choosing what to do. He can work, acquire a profession, he can learn to become... and to obtain higher vocational and academic education and to continue. And there are these two-year teachings, when they teach the profession, they lay the pedagogues, for example, as at the 1st Gymnasium in Latvia, where they teach reinforced mathematics. Yeah, they're going on the science path if they want to. And in these two years, each learns his or her profession more strongly. And then the whole would be 14 years of study, but exactly 18 years of age, when they are old and can begin to study. This scheme, which should at least be discussed at a minimum level, I gave Mr Šadurskis my request: "Well, let us talk about this system in your office for half an hour; maybe we are changing something now when we change competence-based education?" As Member Varis Krumins said: "Yes, there are countries with two systems. One, which is very expensive, teaches billionaires, millionaire children... very strict schools, where there is nothing based on competences." And what is the competence? Can you tell me? This system we want to put in place! The first step is to train the child’s academic knowledge so that he can make practical use of it. So if we could review our curricula, teaching materials, teaching content, what we do not want to do, those people who have not received higher education and work in the ministry could not develop such an abnormal crazy project. There are 10,000 signatures that confirm - no, these parents won't let their children go to school from six years old! And how many officials are working in the Ministry to prepare this project? I'm sorry! I am very concerned about this, and I will try to read quickly a summary of what is happening in the Ministry of Education and Science. Has anyone really imagined that we are living in a free, democratic country? - Come on! - Come We live in a world of total dictatorship: what do those lords in the ministry, to be true, bureaucraticly, in their empty heads after a long time, in their coffee strike, imagine, it will have to be! And all its discussions are just engraving the pea stuffed in the dried pig bladder. He thought that children had to go to school from six years of age to learn general education subjects, and that would have to be so. Presumably, it takes five or four years, and then you'll just have to listen! And no arguments will be taken into account here. Do we have laws that have been passed for a few years? And how much damage and burden this current reform masterpiece will bring to children and their parents, the whole Ministry of Education and Science with Shadurski's lead is deep in one place!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U639	Thank you. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U640	Dear colleagues, If you are looking at Latvia's history for more than 25 years, then every reform of education is actually making such a memorial plate or trying to leave something in history by every minister of education and science. And, looking back at this history, we cannot remember any fact that, as a result of any reform, we would have come to the conclusion - yes, it has given some higher quality steps in the quality of the child completing school; it has given some higher rating to Latvia in some of the world's assessments. If you remember, the name of the minister will be remembered with yeasts. And it's Latvia's disaster - thinking in the short term, trying simply to leave something behind because of political ambitions, without thinking about what is actually left behind. When it comes to this reform, it is once again a current ambition - simply to record in history, without thinking about what the consequences will then be. And everyone who walks in this platform does it, in my opinion, also because he understands how important education is especially in Latvian circumstances. I also appreciate every member of the position who tries with self-image... inspire yourself to vote today in favour of this reform, on these amendments to the law, trying to find a motivation to why they press the button. I appreciate this because these Members have at least tried to go into the documents on which they will vote today. The other thing. When a reform is being carried out, I always want to see the opportunity to compare so that we can then assess whether the decisions taken have been made correctly and what changes need to be made to the decisions taken. Once again, these changes are on the subject of how to change the school network, reduce something, change standards, change content, but there is no answer to the question: What quality will a young person end with? What are we going to do against? I do not deny what is absolutely clear: skills, competences, knowledge - everything must be connected together. Over the past 10 years, if not within 15 years, I have observed that the education system produces (and is increasingly producing) bio-robots. You wonder why children are not ready for life, that they can find some information using a mechanical, perhaps mother’s snuff, but they are absolutely unable to relate different facts together. They do not see a “space”. If a child looks at a smaller screen, the world’s awareness is not greater than the limits of that screen. These too are the consequences of the education system that it does not know how to use the information technology tools that are today. Smart to use! On the contrary: this environment allows the child to stay - forgive! - stupider and more limited. It really hurts me. I already mentioned to you when the audit of the State Audit Office was carried out already more than nine years ago in the dune, when these amendments to the law were passed on to commissions. Then, in order to answer the question: why do I see so many young people who are unable to speak with arguments, who are unable to see a "field", who are unable to write a logically understandable text, why does this happen, what has changed in the education system?... Even now, in reply to those Members who believe that we have had education for each other in the 1970s or 1980s, we have had some wrong education... You too live in illusions! At that time, those who had the opportunity - and I appreciate it! - to study with outstanding educators, no matter what ideological world you exist... You really learned such skills and knowledge that you are able to survive under any circumstances, you are able to adapt, and you are able to reason, logically. You're not afraid of expressing your opinion. What's happening today... It's the disaster that in one part of the education system... Thank God! I want to say that this is not a disaster, it is a happiness: Thank God, teachers have survived, who, regardless of what requirements they are required, are able to choose the most appropriate teaching methods within their competence. They will fill the mountains of paperwork that the system requires, but they will learn the way they feel, how they teach their experiences, their professionalism. By getting acquainted with this audit of the State Audit Office, we found a lot of answers - together with child psychologists, specialists of educational subjects, teaching specialists - where is the problem. And the problem is there is that there are different unlocked elements in the system that don't work together. The reforms have been carried out, by changing the standard, by not following the practical implementation of the standard, by imposing requirements on a mechanical basis, by teaching it or another subject, or by not following it, or by learning the subject in such a way as to be possible to learn. This showed that children are required to have skills, such as abstract thinking, at an age when this thinking has not yet developed, and this causes hatred in their child. This showed, for example, that there are a lot of new learning materials that the child is unable to trace. And again it creates hatred, misunderstanding and mechanical approaches to the learning process. Too little repetition and so on. Why has all of this been deposited in the education system for years, and no one essentially appreciates the way in which children are taught? Because nothing has changed in the Ministry of Education and Science. There is the same understanding today. And today, by amending the law, it is only the creation of the system that is responsible: the rules adopted, the standards drawn up, the requirements imposed, without thinking that these standards, the requirements imposed are just a tool to ensure that the school is completed by an educated young person prepared for life. And the third thing I want to talk about. Education based on competences is welcome. And as far as I remember, we also gained it in the times that someone spoke of with a humiliation - taught us respect, pity, love, compassion for each other, taught us to support each other. What is happening today. You think that the school environment that you will create as an isolator will create a child who will be compassionate, understanding, supportive, loving and so on. If he goes out in a society where hatred is cultivated, where disapproval of different opinions is cultivated, where cynicism is cultivated... It is self-evident and supportive... In situations where there is no argument, fear is inspired. What has been reproduced in the mass media space for years and more by various institutions: if you don't have any arguments, you say that there is only one right view. If someone thinks otherwise, it means that he is unacceptable as a human being. The inability to fight arguments is an environment that can only exist if it inspires fear and inspires confidence that there is only one right view and that everything else must be ignored. Will such an environment have effective competence-based education? I don't think so. How could the education system live up to the fact that the teacher in Latvian society is not a prestigious profession today? That it is not a respected person, an appreciated person? This was to be discussed today, amending the laws of education so that the teaching profession would finally be raised to the heights that it is respectful, it is prestigious. You can't imagine raising your hand against your teacher. When I hear that a child is able to lift her hand against a teacher, that is something completely unacceptable to me. So in such an environment, do we think of developing competences, values in our children? Raising children who understand respect who understand love? I believe that a great deal needs to be done and we need to talk about what public environment we are building. And whether it's the parliamentary troupe from which you can afford to talk everything, considering that freedom is a lenient thing, or that it's a family where parents already teach your child this kind of understanding of freedom, they teach you not to respect the most important thing that a child should respect when going to school - his teacher. I do not support these amendments to the law because they are not designed to understand that we really want to see educated, competent young people, such as those who have recently debated here in the Saeima... and considers it essential that there are young people here who respect their country, which is united by this sense of community - their country's membership. I am in favour of being able to educate such young people. The amendments that are being made mechanicalally are only being made to show some political ambition, to leave a memorial plate on the excavated pit - rather, they will be crosses on the buried educational system. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U641	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U642	Madam President, Dear colleagues, I too... Listening to This Debate (Dep. I. Riena: "The debate! Multiplier!’ ), I looked at it and thought that I would meet the criteria for judges mentioned by Mr. Kalnozol (this is for those 10 years and for the eighteen-year-old child). I also want to share my thoughts with you on this law. Some things. No wonder those speakers who do not support the start of school from the age of six think that our children are worse than those of other European countries. In Northern Ireland, compulsory primary education begins from four years of age. In five countries it starts from five years. In 23 countries, this education starts from six years old. And only a few countries, including the Baltic States... In Finland, Sweden, Bulgaria and Serbia, this education starts from seven years. I don't understand why you think Latvian children... Latvian children are worse than, for example, German or French or Hungarian or Italian, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, where they start learning from six years of age. There's no problem. Second point: I think it is wrong that young people are now completing high school at the age of 19 or 20. It is wrong, neither from an educational point of view nor from a legal point of view, because from the age of 18 there are quite other rights, responsibilities, responsibilities and obligations for this person, and it is difficult to put him under school discipline. If we look from an economic point of view, from an economic point of view, these already adult children or adults are not able to integrate into the labour market because they need to learn at school. As we know, teaching takes place all day long and it is impossible to do anything in parallel. But often these kids, students, connect these works. And then there's nothing good at work or something good at learning, so something's in the middle. How can the school end at 18 years of age? One option is to shorten summer holidays, as is the case in very many European countries. Summer holiday there is not three months, and it has its own rational basis. For example, if there is a child and two parents who both work, then leave during the summer months can be taken, a maximum of one month. And then one more month this child wanders somewhere around the streets and does nothing or sits at home and plays a computer. That is not the right approach either. Therefore, it would be logical to consider this aspect as well. We are already talking a lot about the inclusion of different subjects in educational programmes. Of course, all this takes time. It is not possible for children to be burdened with training from eight in the morning to four in the afternoon. Well, then maybe it's good to think about it and to shorten the summer time! This will also allow parents to spend time with their children and balance leave with their children. If we are talking about six-year-olds, of course, a big problem is that six-year-olds are currently learning a primary education programme in a kindergarten... We all know that if our parents work, the day in the kindergarten starts at 7 a.m. and ends at 7 a.m. In the first class, the work day begins at about 50 p.m. and ends at about one hour. Therefore, in the context of this law, thought should be given to ensuring, as far as possible, that... As you know, a six-year-old cannot legally leave alone at home, an adult must look after him. From seven years on, I understand that it is possible to stay at home alone. This aspect must therefore also be considered in the context of the introduction of training for the six-year-olds. But if we look at the substance, then I thought... There has also been much talk here today about objectives. What are the aims of this education reform? In my opinion, the aim is one thing: for our children to receive quality education, to leave school in time and either to continue to learn or to integrate into the labour market, to start work in time and to work successfully. So I can't see any big problems. Of course there is still much work to be done on the draft law; other options and possible options must also be analysed, but I think the direction and purpose is right. I really wish the Commission every success in its work on this draft law, and I certainly call on it to be supported at first reading, and I call for it to continue its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U643	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U644	Hello! Colleagues, I understand that all of us here are talking about the content of training. And, I have to say, we are all the victims of a previous education system, to which the school did not give enough knowledge and skills to apply it. We're afraid of talking from the platform, we don't know how to talk, and so on. It's even more tragic for those who have finished 11 classes, I'm one of them. Indeed, such a trauma I don't know how to present the knowledge to the world in those 11 years! But if we are talking about the particular draft law, then I want to say that we will read this draft law carefully. Today, most of the speakers who said, "Let us support this project!" , talked about the need for us to improve the content of education. But look at this law, who will then determine the content of education? The legislator? It is the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. All the amendments, which were also seen and shown by the Commission, are not a question for the legislator. They must be prepared by the Ministry. So rather, this draft law we are talking about today is about the organisation of work. And believe or not, if the teacher is good, if the teaching methodology, the methods in pedagogy would be that teachers who already work in many schools... if they were to work with new methods, there are no problems with their content. We can give key guidance. In fact, we're doing a lot of cooking here about something that we don't really have to do. The other thing. The purpose of the draft law. Read the very beginning of the annotation! I am very pleased that the Cabinet of Ministers led this project to the Saeima to implement the government declaration. And there's at the beginning: to implement general compulsory secondary education from next school year... I understand that it has already been introduced, because there is a note there, only a two-natural saying: in addition to training in grade 1 from the age of six... So we have general education, we have compulsory education, let's now add it from six years... And then I have a question specifically about being six years old; about these new settings. We can, of course, exaggerate European countries and make our children learn from the age of two years. Come on, let's do it! Show everyone that we have wise children! But I would actually have a couple of questions for Mr Adamovich, who runs this commission. I understand that you represent the ideas of a fellow minister in your party. Have you received an opinion from Latvian parents supporting children or at least a silent consent? Have you received only a protest? The second question. Do you have the opinion of pedagogy scientists that this reform is in line with some of the right methods, rather than simply continuing with previous reforms, those that have begun and failed? Do you know the opinion of experienced educators who work long at school that these methods will really be the best? Do we only want to organise the education system organisationally and economically with this draft law? As Mr. Nunozole said, there's money everywhere at the bottom. I believe that we politicians cannot say, on the basis of the project created by the handful of officials, that we know better how to teach children. That's what the educators know. Before moving this project forward, we should listen to the opinions of the educators, not say that we want to be politically: from six years. But somebody will say: from five years. Can we politically say that a psychological child is ready for this? Can we politically say that every kindergarten or school where these children will begin to learn needs beds and peace? If you have a call, if you still have one at school, you'll call twice now, after 30 minutes and 40 minutes, and in the middle for a minute... At the time when the child will have a rest period, will the call be sound? Are these questions handled? Order this system and come with a concrete solution that everyone will support! But now there is more protest. On the other hand, you have only a political desire: “Introduce!” Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U645	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U646	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, I'm not gonna miss your time. I always like it when professionals in my field speak! I listened with satisfaction to the speeches made by individual Members, whether it be Varis Krumins or Mr Platoper. But what do I mean? That we're talking about one thing, but I guess we're talking about different Latvian languages. Mr. Chair! The parenting begins not with the moment he is born but with the moment he is born. And the child's education begins after that. Unfortunately, the wisdom of life and the level of education cannot be placed in one plane either. Once again... In my opinion, this is a very hasty reform that is unsuccessful in the run-up to the elections. It would be very good if we could discuss all these contentious issues and bring the whole Saeima to a common denominator. On Tuesday, I attended a meeting of the parents’ council at my daughter’s school, and I also asked both educators and parents about the transition to class 1 from six years of age. Compulsory secondary education... And what did I get? They were unanimous: strongly against the fact that grade 1 starts from six years old. If we talk about the fact that pre-school education is Class 1 and then children go right into Class 2 at school, it is another issue that is to be discussed. Certain parents stand for compulsory secondary education. But the opposite question was: ‘Are we going to have schools where to educate them, because the number of secondary schools is falling dramatically?’ If I'm not wrong, 59 already this year. We can discuss a lot and a lot of different interesting things. I learned to play well before I learned to read. And I started reading from five years. And I can't say anything against the level of education either. But the most important thing, when it comes to training for 12 years, is that parents and teachers unanimously said (and I promised that I would make it known to my fellow Members): everyone stands for 11 years of training. There's nothing for nineteen-year-old boys and girls to do at high school! Yes, I also belong to the category that has been studying for 11 years. I just remember well that in 11th or 10th or 9th, we started our training in eight, ended in half a quarter, then there were different types of training and then we had to go home - something to do at home. And there were also a whole range of various optional classes. Did we lose something or got something? I think we got it. And yet we have to make a decision so that children get secondary education up to 18 years of age or 18 years of age. But if the implementers of the reform believe that Class 1 is pre-school education, then honestly say it! There is nothing to fool, neither for yourself, nor for others, nor for parents! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U647	The name to Member Varis Krumins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U648	Hello, second time! Listening... I hope we're closer to the end... I just want to say one thing: the result of this experiment, in which, unfortunately, our children are the test rabbits, we will only see this project when it is over - when these six-year-olds complete this training and complete the school. And that will be about 2030. It is far too early to talk about whether or not something has been approved. We'll be able to make an inspection in 10-11 years, and then we'll see what's come out of this experiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U649	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U650	Dear colleagues, This debate very clearly shows how different we are, how different education is. How diverse is the culture of education, how different we are. The same applies to children. Continuing the question session initiated by Mr Kutra, I also had three questions. Question one. When we talk about the fact that 12 years are really a long period of time and that perhaps we should not start faster and finish faster, the question arises: can we not make this process more dense with regard to education standards, quality of education, content of education? The second question. Perhaps it would not be right that the six-year-olds - and the amen - should have the right to give parents the right to decide during the transition period: from six to seven years to start the learning process. Because this is very important, especially if two categories of specialists - children's doctors and psychologists, as well as teachers, were also to be consulted. And the third question. We're talking about optimising the school network. According to Mr Šadurskis, 150 schools would be completely sufficient in Latvia. What do you think will win during the process? In cities more or less it can be arranged. What are we going to do with the fields? What schools will stay there? Are they ready to take up six-year-olds who have purely physiological requirements different from those of ten- or sixteen-year-olds? Have we prepared an education system and a school network for this transition? And shouldn't it be before we strengthen them in the law, but try to study the positive and negative consequences of the whole process? And finally. When it was talking... If I am not mistaken, I guess Mr Matīss has said that there is a large part of the delegation here to the Cabinet of Ministers. Practically delegated to the Ministry itself - the Ministry of Education and Science. To me, to be honest, there is no great conviction that this work will be done qualitatively. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U651	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U652	Dear colleagues, These amendments are indeed very important - we understand this, they are understood by each of us who are here. All these proposals and all the amendments are important. However, I am most concerned about two things, two provisions that have been incorporated into this draft law - education of competences and this content of training. I very much appreciate and respect those who are professionals in their field. And usually in those things I'm weakly oriented, I look at and think, and I look at what real professionals say about it in my field. I was very referred to the material prepared by the University of Latvia Doctor of Management Andrejs Mūrnieks and received by colleagues at our joint meeting, namely the joint meeting of the Commission for Sustainable Development and the Commission for Education, Culture and Science on these issues of competence education and learning content. However, I think it is necessary for all of us in the Saeima to know these things - all 100 Members. Then I also looked at the publications, all that Andrejs Mūrnieks has written and told. And I was concerned that, again in his last publication - April - he talked about the same thing that was said at the beginning of February. So virtually nothing has changed in these matters. And that's what bothers me most. Of course, the amendments to the law reveal neither this content of the competence approach nor this content of the learning. I have to say, all this will be after the law... It has already been created, it has been almost developed, but it will come as another regulatory act, another document. That's why, I think, we should repeat... raise awareness of the concerns expressed by the Latvian Education Council, which also includes Andrejs Mūrnieks. I have received a letter from the Latvian Education Council, which you have probably also received and read. And for me the views of these organizations and this competent specialist are very important. So what does this association of educators point to, and what does Mr. Mūrnieks point out? I will not mention all aspects, but only those who seem so important to me and who should remain, let us say, in history, also in the minutes of the sitting of the Saeima. First. Reduction in the status of Latvian language: from the main subject of instruction it becomes one of the languages to be studied. It is placed in the general area of languages and is, in fact, equivalent to foreign languages. Second risk. In the past, there were discussions about the integration of Latvia's history into the world history course, whereas in the project proposal all history in primary education is fully integrated into social knowledge. Without getting enough information about the history of Latvia and Europe, a young person can be subjected to ideological manipulation and foreign propaganda. Third. Social knowledge and all the results to be achieved in primary education do not refer to the concepts of statehood, culture, history and modern existence of Latvia: Atmoda, occupation, freedom struggles, the European Union, NATO, the United Nations, reform, Latvian traditional culture, as well as Latvia’s characteristic celebrations – Christmas, John and others. The Russian Empire, Valentine's Day, Halloween, and Maslienica, however, have been mentioned. And the fourth. The value dimension in primary education is not sufficiently developed. Although the values and values are mentioned in the initial part of the documents, they do not appear in the output section as a separate output theme. Unlike four other stretching themes. The results achieved do not mention values such as solidarity, compassion, moderation, courage... Accent is placed on globalisation, the everyday, the trialogue, ignoring the Latvian identity aspect. The political developments and future prospects related to the myths of world opinion, religion, civilizations... there is no balance between attitudes, knowledge and skills. These documents mention attitudes 21 times, skills 75 times, knowledge 36 times. The professor and the Society have also carried out a comparative analysis of the text so as to crystallise what concepts are and how often these two documents are mentioned. These figures come from there as well. The results to be achieved are very general in many places. 114 times the word abbreviation ‘and so on’, which means that the boundaries of the results to be achieved are open, leaked, unclear. There are doubts as to whether this type of standard can lead to exams, tests, or to the same level of education in different schools. Broadly interpretable guidelines have been developed instead of standards. And indeed, when you look at this kontent analysis page, zero times, there is no mention of such values as “Atmoda”, “fights of freedom”, “Occupation”, “Latvian folk traditions”, “Christmas”, “Jaņi”, “sunskiers”, “reliance”, as well as terms that must be known to a young modern youth, who is operating our information environment without which history is not understandable: “communism”, “capitalism”, “revolution”, “reformation”, “liberalism”, “conservatism”... Also “the Bible”, “the Holocaust”, “materialism”, “idealism”... ‘mind’ is not mentioned any time. ‘ Conscience, “the conscience”, “the subconsciousness” is not mentioned any time, “soul”, “the ancient culture”... “the truth”, “false” and “false” have never been mentioned. So there is this disharmony, there is this concept, there is a lack of terms, they are not intended to be looked at in these programmes, which is very important for young people, children in particular in primary education. And precisely because of the concerns that nothing will continue to change the content of these texts, but by voting and approving it as a law, we can confirm things that I think we, the people here, cannot accept... None of us are acceptable to those cases that are pointed out to us by the Latvian Education Council.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U653	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Member of the Commission, Aldis Adamovičs... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U654	Hello, fellow Members, again! On behalf of the Commission, I would like to add that... and also call on you: do not inspire yourself, please, in votes, but vote as you believe you are right, both today and in future readings. And I can say about myself: I really do not try to inspire myself, I will vote in confidence. And, in response to the reservations of some Members of the Commission, I would like to say that I did not give the floor yesterday at the committee meeting, but, because of the lack of time, I also gave the floor to other Members. And I would like to say that the discussions will continue, and yesterday, a majority vote was also taken for a longer deadline for the second reading. And it is not true that many interested parties have not been heard by the Commission. Here I would like to name both the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia, represented by the Head of Jelgava Education Administration and the Association of Education Managers of Latvia. The Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union represents practically all school management, all 714, and the director of Sigulda State Gymnasium gave a positive opinion yesterday. Yesterday, as I heard, Mrs Vanaga also said that she is generally in favour, but there are issues that need to be discussed and discussed. Yesterday, Mrs Dundure from the Latvian Municipal Union also said that she is in general in favour of this move, this process only needs to be debated about specific things, about the learning environment, about many of these perhaps unclear things at the moment. Ombudsman, Ministry of Welfare, State Children's Rights Protection Inspectorate and many, many other organizations... At this point, I would like to say that there is support for all those who do not argue. I haven't seen most schools protest about what I call 714. Thank you very much to Mr Dzintara, who outlined why these reforms are being carried out at all and what we want to achieve with this. Thank you Mr Kūtra, who said that the Cabinet of Ministers is really responsible for the competences, for the guidelines, but we are following this process. The sub-committees and the Commission regularly invite specialists, object teachers, and we also present our proposals in this area. This project, which is the largest in the last 28 years since we regained our independence, has only 100 pilot schools and 300 have been involved. (Interface: ‘Only?’) ) Yes, only 100 pilot schools (Interface: “Only 100 out of 700!” ), which employs approximately 2,000 teachers. And there are about 300 specialists - psychologists, university teachers, educators, whom, sorry, you considered to be incompetent today. I am very sad that we have such a negative attitude towards our educators in general... against educational composition. I agree, there must be discipline, order. But let's start with ourselves! We must have a positive attitude so that we can reform and take and put the best things into practice. So I want to read a short quote at the moment from what the doctor of psychology, Professor Malgožata Džeščevska, Dean of the Faculty of Pedagogy, Psychology and Art of the University of Latvia, says: “The child learns from the moment of birth. The more society is developed, the more intelligent it is to change the environment in order to promote the development of the child. Early presentation of one or the other's skills, which are essential for the performance of an activity, ensures that these skills are acquired at a higher level in the future. If there is an environment suitable for the age of the child and the content of the training, if the teacher is professional, flexible, if the training is individualised and the child and his/her needs are most important in this process, then there should be no problem in integrating six-year-old children into Class 1." And 92 percent of six-year-olds will actually acquire similar content in both the last year of the kindergarten and the first year of the primary school, because eight percent simply because of the lines they are not able to master this six-year-old programme. Therefore, I really call for a positive, constructive attitude in the future. Let's get the best, what's not acceptable... either extend time limits or exclude them. I call for support for this draft law at first reading. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U655	Thank you. The Commission therefore calls for support. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on General Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 30, for - 3. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U656	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 21 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U657	Thank you. So we have a deadline for submitting proposals, 21 May this year. Please turn on the microphone for Mr. Wolum.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U658	The offer is: a week longer deadline for the submission of proposals - 28 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U659	28 May this year. So we have two deadlines for submitting proposals. Let us first vote in favour of the next one, on 28 May this year. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” - 28 May 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, against - 28, refrains - 3. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 28 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U660	So, colleagues, yesterday the Education, Culture and Science Commission examined and supported amendments to the Education Law for first reading. Please also support today at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U661	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U662	Dear Members of the Committee. The reason for drawing up this document is black to white is written... and I object because it does not correspond to reality and truth. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Kursīte-Pakule: “What are the differences?” ) The aim... Amendments to the Law on Education... "Based on the developed and already implemented content of general education based on competences." I can't get a document to prove that it has already been studied, implemented, as it was written here... Well, read it on your own! Read it now! And the document goes on to say that standards are already in order. I asked the State Education Content Centre to at least show me the standard so that I can read it and debate it here, to talk. And here it is said that the document has already been written, that all these beautiful documents that I have named are arranged and all the other things are subordinate, because everything is right. Competence-based education is already theoretically developed and we only have to implement it! I think we're just lying to the public. Why don't you want to admit that? Then ask Mr Shadursky to bring these two documents! I am afraid that for a few years there will be two laws and regulations at once. And instead of putting these documents in order to have no discomfort, there would be no contradiction between the law of one and the other, with the rules that are designed... Yes, we will leave it all, one part will still work for them, and then competence-based education... all these conditions will be fulfilled in life. ( Internouncing call.) I would now like to add something more about what Mr Adamovich said about the previous text. No one is opposed to children learning from the age of six. But let's end once content with the system mix! Some talk about the system, and many talk about the content. And try to convince the public here. We need to finally decide whether we need the nine-year primary school that is, or whether we need eight-year-olds... And there's a problem not to have that nineteen-year-old... Mr. Matīss says 19 years... I don't... I agree that this is not normal, so I propose a system that will not have the nineteens who will be organised so that we can say from the tribunal here: we have the right system. Let's build it up! We put content into content, not constantly doing that we simply vote for something that can then be realized in life with difficulty! And I really would like the Unity and the Coalition Council, which you have, to decide how to vote on these issues. Now say one thing... Tell me one area of education that's arranged for this moment so that we can boast - yes, we're good! Thanks to your coalition, handcuffing, button pressing, handcuffing, commissioning, we will immediately lose the song festival. What are we going to do then in 2025 or 2030? You tell me! I can tell you that thanks to your genius mandatory votes (how then will we go to cast down our minister?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ), out of 740 schools, only 300 schools have 2-4 class choirs. Mass that fills the test, which will be one year later than statutory... You don't even worry about that! You don't worry at all! They're gonna be those... Classes 5-8 - mass, which usually filled the test. But if more than half of the schools don't have these choirs, then... Tell me, who will then sing at the school Youth Festival, with whom do we boast?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And the same happens with this system. Instead of saying that when we reach the age of five, a child begins to study in the first class and solve all the questions... We're going to put the contents together, we're going to sort them out in the right way. Not now, at any cost, keeping nine primary school classes... We can learn from six years of age to tell the whole of Europe and the world that we do not have nineteen years in grade 12. Oh, my God! Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U663	Name to the Member... I advise Members to reflect on those who are in the debate until the debate is closed. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U664	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you all for supporting the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the previous draft law for at least one week. I hope that we will do likewise with this draft law. The other thing. This whole process of education reform, which began with language issues, which, to say say, were evicted through the Saeima... Obviously this encouraged Mr Šadurski to continue with the reforms. And put so much together in one bag, so say, and now try to push it through. In Soviet times, the five-year plan was to be implemented in three years. Now the four-year plan is trying to get out within six months. I think that is wrong. And finally, Mr Adamovich, if you have something to say about this bill, please apply in the debate, say your opinion, so that Members have the opportunity to respond with arguments to what you have said. Otherwise, when you come and report on behalf of the Commission, Members simply cannot rebut your arguments. I urge you to be honest with your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U665	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur have anything to say?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U666	On behalf of the Commission, colleagues call for support for the amendments to the General Education Act at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U667	Amendments to the Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U668	Education Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U669	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, against - 28, refrains - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U670	The deadline proposed by the Commission was 21 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U671	Please turn on the microphone for Member Wolum.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U672	Like the previous draft law, I also call for this to be given a deadline of 28 May for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U673	So we are first voting on the next deadline, on 28 May this year. Please call me! We will vote on the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to Education Law” - 28 May 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 15, for - 2. This deadline for the submission of proposals is therefore supported. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 28 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Law of the Pedvāle Art Park”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars. Mr. Dzintara, please come report.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U674	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Culture and the State Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, discussed carefully and supported in a broad consensus the draft law “Pedvāle Art Park Law” at first reading. I will allow you not to repeat the arguments that have already been made today from the tribunal by handing over this bill to the commissions. I can add only that the text of the project does not oblige us to finance the art park to a certain extent, but offers opportunities for both the state and the municipality. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U675	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the Pedvāle Art Park Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - no, for - 3. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U676	May 25th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U677	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 25 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Compensation for Victims”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U678	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has drafted a draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Compensation for Victims””, which has also been examined by the Court Policy Sub-Commission, where it was also supported. In short, the draft law provides for an increase in the amount of public compensation to be paid to victims of minors by modifying the percentage for the calculation of the amount of national compensation, as well as a separate distribution of the percentage of cases where the victim has suffered moderate personal injury or the victim has been infected with human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis B or C. These amendments also increase the level of public compensation for victims of serious personal injury, or where a criminal offence is qualified as rape or sexual violence, or where the victim is a victim of trafficking in human beings. The draft law also provides for an extension of the deadline for submission of the request for public compensation, strengthening of the duties of the injured party and certain other minor amendments. I note that it is planned that this draft law will enter into force from 1 January of next year and that no additional funds from the state budget will be needed for the implementation of this draft law. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U679	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Public Compensation for Victims”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U680	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U681	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Provided Legal Assistance”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U682	Colleagues! This draft law has also been drafted by the Legal Commission in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. Prior to that, the draft law, just like the previous one, was examined by the Commission for Judicial Policy, where it received support. I note that the Saeima has already adopted amendments to the Civil Procedure Law, which, in certain categories of civil cases from 1 January of next year, envisages introducing the process of so-called lawyers. This law would therefore extend the scope of the entities eligible for State aid. In view of the above, it is necessary to amend the Law on State-guaranteed Legal Assistance, which will differentiate the range of entities eligible for State-guaranteed legal aid, as well as the arrangements and conditions for the provision of State-guaranteed legal aid for a particular group of entities. This draft law would provide for the introduction of a new group of persons with income not exceeding the national minimum monthly salary for persons who are already entitled to receive state-guaranteed legal aid, as well as for the possibility to receive legal aid provided by this person's state by paying a contribution for receiving legal aid or the so-called co-payment. Colleagues! Consequently, the Legal Commission has supported this draft law and I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U683	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Provided Legal Assistance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U684	The deadline for submitting proposals also for this draft law is 10 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U685	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and celebrated days”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Rihards Melgailis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U686	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We have talked a lot about work, we should also talk about celebrated days. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking to consider the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days””. Why is this draft law drafted by the Commission? The Commission received two proposals of an almost identical nature and decided in the discussion to combine the two proposals into a single legislative proposal. The applicants did not object either, so I will explain the substance of the case. So the Social and Labour Commission has developed and submitted for consideration in this draft law an application to mark the third Tuesday of March as the World Social Work Day. Our commission ordered us to rename this festival as the International Social Working Day, because our legislation has already provided for such a celebration and the word “World” was not particularly enjoyed by the commission. And the second proposal tabled by several Members of the Saeima is to mark 27 April as Latgale Day. During the discussion, the Commission agreed to refer to this event as Latgale Congress Day. Well, that is the Commission's proposal, and please support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U687	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U688	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! It's very brief that, in fact, today, on 26 April... 101 years ago, the Latgale Congress gathered together and began to decide whether to withdraw from Vitebsk Governor and with the rest of Latvia... at that time there was no Latvia... to build a common state for Latvian territories. So tomorrow... 27 April is exactly the day that we originally offered to put into the calendar as Latgale Day. The Commission (there is, of course, its own justification) proposed that this name be added. So, Latgale Congress Day. I can only assure you that several events will take place tomorrow in this regard, so this day is already being brought into society. In many, almost all schools in Latgale tomorrow, either a separate local school hour or another hour will take place in latgalian form, to tell you directly about the significance of the Congress, as well as simply to increase awareness, knowledge of their history and patriotism in people and students, as they say. And tomorrow at 12.00 in Rezekne, by the way, the monument to Vladislav Locis will be unveiled... The pilot, who was a very active protector of the printed Latgalian word in exile. Everyone with the opportunity is welcome to Rezekne! And probably tomorrow, we - both myself and many non-governmental organizations - will call on us not to be afraid to use Latgale language, Latgale Latvian, both in Riga, Latgale, and in school, at home, in the shop and, of course, with children, we will invite you to speak in Latgale. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading. I am also pleased that, as far as I am concerned, the deadline for the submission of proposals is very short, on 3 May. So we will not have to wait again for a year, because from this draft law, almost a year has passed from this idea to the commission - it was at the end of May last year. So I hope that it will not be longer for us to wait, and during this Saeima we will get to the end. Thank you, colleagues, for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U689	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U690	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U691	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U692	Please submit your proposals by 3 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U693	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 3 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U694	Thank you. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” for the second reading. One proposal from the Latvian Association of Regions has been received. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you not to support this proposal and will tell you why. Because this proposal, if supported, will not give us the opportunity to review this draft law at second, final, final reading, after the Rule of Procedure and after all other laws. This means that we will carry out this draft law for some time. Knowing how our Ministry of Finance works, it is clear that it will send us an opinion on this proposal, if it were supported, in two weeks' time. This means that this law will not be able to enter into force as envisaged, as voted at first reading, on 1 July 2018. This means that the President will not sign it, will not declare it. This means that the National Social Security Agency will not be able to prepare for one of the proposals supported by the Commission. What is it about? This is because we are offering to increase the premium to the length of work by 1996 - one and a half euros per year. This means that, in support of this proposal, we say to 10 thousand pensioners: "We're sorry! From 1 July you will not get 20 euros!” That means if Members try to influence something... If the Commission asks not to support these draft laws and proposals, it knows what it is doing. And that is why we asked, on behalf of the Commission, when we submitted this draft law, to examine today, in two readings, the draft law so that the State Social Insurance Agency can already count so that the President can declare it and that people waiting for this proposal (that is, the 10 000 who retired in 1996) can receive EUR 20 every month. If you want to support this proposal, then we are very sorry to all these pensioners. The Commission is not asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U695	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic. ( Insight: “To the pensioners! Horrible!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U696	There is no idea of hindering the progress of the law, and I don't know if our President is such an enemy of pensioners... which is now on this vote when the question of when it will be possible to receive... mainly women who live four years longer than men who are on the other side in the form of a pension allowance... up to five years or 60 months. This deadline is equal to the life expectancy of men and women. Next, which is very important, I have come back today from... should be mentioned today's 32nd anniversary of Chernobyl. In this collective of some of these old men, there were also many women - widows. And they told about their tragic fate for years. Their earners had gone to his sun, and they were left alone. And women... It is precisely aid for women in this 60-week period that must be the greatest, because they are the ones who raise future taxpayers who are giving birth to children and who are not included... their huge contribution so that, in general, the current generation can get the pension payer... an assessment of the educational work. Therefore, of course, I think that it would be a vote in favour of this proposal, but we will not be people who, if this proposal is rejected, will therefore not support the rule of law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U697	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U698	Colleagues! ‘ Poverty is the most cruel form of violence” - with these words from Mahatma Gandy two months ago, when I presented amendments to the law “On state pensions”, I tried to illustrate the uneasy OECD conclusions about Latvia, the situation of Latvian seniors and also the risks of poverty. I think we all know the reality, and it is that in Latvia in recent years there has been a significant increase in the risk of older poverty - 40 percent of people over 65 years of age are exposed to it. And this risk - the income gap - will continue to rise as the income of young people increases and the overall standard of living rises. It is known that the poorest part of Latvian society is the pensioners, especially those who have had the most active years before the restoration of Latvia's independence, as well as in the 1990s, and that is 100 thousand. It is possible to survive if these costs are divided into two, but we know well that the average life expectancy of men in Latvia is 10 years less than for women, and it is a financial tragedy for many. Women receive substantially lower pensions - that is, the fact - and the loss of a spouse in this case may be a financial blow of 60 or 70 per cent. The latest OECD report on the Latvian pension system concluded that especially women in Latvia are at risk of poverty above 75 years of age; currently, a third of women receive less pension than is necessary to break the poverty line. 78 percent - the risk of poverty is so high for the lonely seniors. And, colleagues, we must admit that today's decision is important and permanent in the fight against social inequality and poverty, because we are taking a step closer to the core of Europe, where so far there were only two countries where widow's pensions were not introduced, including Latvia. However, we must be aware of the words of Winston Churchill at another important point: “It is not the end at the moment, it is not even the end of the end, but perhaps it is the end of the beginning.” It is in this context, colleagues, that I want you to look at the LRA proposals. This is only a first step towards targeted action to substantially reduce the risks of poverty among seniors. That's not enough. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate calls.) The very decision - to introduce so-called widows' pensions - is right, but for the time being it is only a solution for 12 months. This is argued as an Austrian model. Different models were those assessed. But we need to be aware of the historical injustice of the pension law and the cardinal differences between Latvia and Austria in terms of income inequality. The proposal for 60 months is not supported because of a lack of money, but we know that this is not an insurmountable problem. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate calls.) Recently, public roads were lit up with five million euros of air. So there's 12 months of support. It has just burned EUR 79 million, being thrown into part of the OIC. This money would also have been budget-obedient. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “You were in the coalition party yourself, you were sitting there!” ) That would already be twice as much as a 60-month allowance for widows’ pensions. Colleagues, it is important to realise that this money will come back to our economy and the state budget right away. The elders will not paint it or bring it anywhere, but will spend it right here in Latvia, paying bills. This is an important step in reducing the shadow economy - not in combating, but in reducing it directly. It is clear that this LRA proposal will not be supported, but I call on you to look at this proposal and to take it with understanding, rather than with the aim of all of us as the direction in which these amendments should be developed. This is only the first step and the beginning. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “It is already in the pension law! What are you talking about!” ) For a thousand years old truth, an ancient and true doctrine, says to us, “You shall honor your father and mother, that you may keep well, and that you may live long on earth.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U699	The name of Member Aija Barch.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U700	Highly honored fellow Members! I will try not to delay you for a long time, but there are several things that really bother me today. First of all, amendments to the law on state pensions are perceived as measures for voting in the next parliamentary elections. Excuse me if that was the case with a commercial medium. But if it speaks state-paid media, it really hurts me. Secondly. The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs has not been able to argue politically over many years. These are the issues of this troupe. But if I hear a Commissioner who has supported and participated in the drafting of the second and third paragraphs of Article 37 speaks something quite different today, then I do not understand that. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “I will explain to you!” ) The third question. Very well, thank you, Mr. Viļuma. You tried to defend your proposal at the commission meeting. Unfortunately, however, Members of Parliament, Abu Meri, Siliņš, Orlovs, who took part in the debate, asked questions and discussed questions, could not expect any response from you to these fiscal policy issues. And, my fellow Members, let's not forget... Let us not forget that Latvia has been adopting a three-year budget for several years. That is why it is true to Mr Smilten that this is the first step, but I believe that there will be very many young, smart, experienced Members in the next term, and they will certainly be able to get the taxes collected much better. They will do much more to understand the public and, in particular, the people that Mr Smilten was talking about at the end, his parents and grandparents. I'm sure the next one, the new one, will be able to use the money so well that no one anymore... To be precise, there will be no need to make political, populist speeches here after four years. But in this particular case, my fellow Members, I call for us to refrain today from supporting the proposal of the Group of the Regions of Latvia because we cannot take an irresponsible look at this issue when there is no calculation and say that it will be as much as next year. In my opinion, this is not much responsible, so let us make the way forward for the next parliament. Thank you. I call on us to refrain from adopting today's 1st, only proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U701	Thank you. The name is... ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Mr. Viļuma... I closed the debate. And what is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U702	No, no. Thank you. Everything was clearly stated. President of the Commission, Please do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U703	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 2, for - 63. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U704	Thank you. I didn't expect... I am going to thank all the Members who supported this bill in the morning. Yes, 200 thousand pensioners say to you today at the radios: “Thank you very much!” The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs has done a lot. ( Subtotal: “Rightly, Mr. Clementyev! ” ) Vote on the second... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's go! We talked about education for a very long time! Believe me the pensioners have... ( The box “For the Commission! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U705	I understand that the Commission is calling for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U706	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U707	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. (Applause) The order of business - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Law on the Freedom Monument and the Riga Brethren Cemetery” (No 32/Lp12) until 18 May 2018.” Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Law on the Freedom Monument and the Riga Brothers Cemetery” (No 32/Lp12) until 18 May 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next section is "Review of own-initiative proposals". On the agenda - draft decision “On Further Progress of the 10 156th Latvian Citizens’ Collective Application “On an Inheritable 2nd Pension Level Retention””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U708	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, On January 18, 2018, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 156 Latvian citizens “On an inherited 2nd pension level savings”. On February 22, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima heard the authorised representative of the applicants, who invited the Saeima to find a solution for the inheritance of state funded pension scheme savings, namely, in case a 2nd pension member dies at the pre-retirement age, the savings should be transferred to the heirs of the participant. According to the applicants, this would protect families, increase confidence in the pension system and reduce the shadow economy. The authorised representative of the applicants indicated that, in almost all Member States of the European Union, pension-level 2 capital is inherited, for example in cash, pension-capital, as a widow’s pension or in a similar way. On 14 March representatives of the Latvian Association of Commercial Banks, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Welfare shared their views at the meeting of the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications. The Association of Commercial Banks of Latvia supported the collective application, agreeing that implementation of the application in life would increase the number of taxpayers, attracting people from the shadow economy. The Ministry of Finance also conceptually supported the collective application, stressing that it would be necessary to maintain this 2nd level of pension provision in the system itself, but should not allow this provision to be immediately withdrawn and spent in case of inheritance. The Ministry of Welfare's attitude towards the collective application was rejected. The Ministry does not agree that the introduction of this application would increase the number of taxpayers in life. In their view, people need to build up a reserve fund, the stocks of which would be used in times of crisis. Having heard all the requests of the applicants and having taken note of the application received, the Commission unanimously decided at its meeting on 18 April to submit a collective application for further evaluation to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 131 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision on the transfer of a collective application to the Saeima Budget and Finance (tax) Commission for further evaluation and decided to direct it to the Saeima for consideration at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U709	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 156 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On an Inheritable 2nd pension pillar”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting was examined. To answer Members' questions today. Member Arvilas Asheradenas, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arturs Rubika, Morozova, Orlova and Adamsons “On licences issued by the Ministry of Economics to sell electricity in the framework of compulsory procurement”. The written reply received is partially granted to the applicants. Members do not want to ask additional questions in their oral statements. Member Zarina, Arthur Rubika, Potapkina, Raimonds Rubika and Adamsons, Minister of Transport Uldis Augums, “On the answer given by the Ministry of Transport in connection with the “School of Pilots””. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name Member of the Saeima Gunars Kūtris to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U710	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Hosams Abu Meri, Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Walter Dambe, Aleksandrs Jakimovs, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Nally Kleinbergs, Ivans Klementyevs, Rihards Kols, Līga Kozlovska, Armands Krauze, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Alexei Loškovs, Romanas Valdiņš, Sergey Potapkins, Dzintars Zaķis, Ivars Zarins and Mihail Zemlinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-26-PT12-477-U711	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
