ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We will begin the meeting of the Saeima on 12 April 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Members of the Parliamentary Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption are asked to include the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Ringold Baloža, the Saeima Member from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption” on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Balodis, Abu Meri, Gaidis Berzins, Kleinberg, Brigmanis, Debtor and others are asking for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting “On the election of the Saeima Member, Ringolds Baloža, to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Krauze, Valainis, Brigmanis, Gaidis Berzins, Kols, Dalder and others are asking that the draft decision on the financing of the European Union after 2020 be placed on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Prime Minister asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism” be put on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Mežulis, Brigmanis, Siliņš, Balodis, Valainis, Kursīte-Pakule and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Lietend garden law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity asks that the draft decision on the admission of Joseph Menaker to the Latvian citizenship on special merits for Latvia be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Zarins, Tretjaka, Lazareva, Urbanovičs, Arturs Rubiks, Raimonds Rubiks and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the task of the Cabinet of Ministers to prevent the negative impact of the mandatory procurement component (OIC) on Latvian electricity end-users”. ‘ Member Ivars Zarins has signed up to speak for’.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U2	Hello, colleagues! The OIC is a politically covered area that is still under way. Those who have covered it for years now call it a mistake. It's not a mistake. It has been deliberately implemented, which is still being politically covered. Those who took part in this process knew well what its consequences would be. I personally warned those responsible for the implementation of this area almost 10 years ago of the consequences that it would have if it continued. And I've shown it with calculations. We knew who was expecting us. However, it continued. So it wasn't a mistake! It was a deliberate action to enable a narrow group of people to live at the expense of the rest of society. The OIC has long been able to reduce the burden and significantly reduce it. But nothing was done. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) On the contrary! Why is it only now that we are ready to fight the OIC world? It would be better to say that we are ready to fight, because almost nothing has already been done to actually reduce the burden of the OIC. This readiness is now forced to be demonstrated by those covering this area through parliamentary monitoring of the activities of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It is increasingly shocking for society to learn about how it has been covered and implemented. And that's why those who have covered it are now forced to act and show something for society. In fact, though, nothing really happens. For example, the testing of legendary OIC stations has been ongoing for almost half a year. Of the 400 stations, the Ministry of Economics still checks 39 stations and still fails to tell how many of them are actually built. I have to ask: why has it managed to withdraw only 21 permits throughout this period, although in reality 25 stations have not been built at all? What has been done by the Ministry of Economics all the time when examining these stations? The real reduction of the OIC burden from these inspections is zero. Amendments to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers were just adopted, but in fact it seems that they were adopted to provide the OIC for a new cover, just a little tougher, because they retain the absurd, ineffective OIC monitoring mechanism that allows for fraud and maintenance of support. This will help the Ministry of Economics to legalise directed container schemes in order to win the merchants against whom there has been legal proceedings and who have been deprived of authorisation. Significantly, the Ministry of Economics hastened to approve these proposals, amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers as soon as the joint position of LTRK, LDDK and Latvian Municipal Union with principle objections to these regulations was received, so that these objections should not be examined and regulations revised. The last, most visible, proof of the readiness and competence of this fight against the OIC climate is just a statement from the Ministry of Economics. Colleagues! Six-six-six-six-six-six! - The Ministry of Economics, with foam on the lips, says that it is doing its best to reduce the burden of OICs. And what can the Ministry of Economics say after six months? The need for another six months; it is necessary to set up a working group to tell what really the Ministry of Economics has to do. Well amazing competence and readiness to fight it all! As once the elections have come, these promises can then not be fulfilled, because once again after the elections they will be interests of sponsors and not public interests that will have to be respected. And so, colleagues, so that the commitment promised by the Latvian Government to end the OIC is not another hero's story of the fact that someone will pull himself out of the mud behind his hair, we must help to implement it - we must implement the process of parliamentary scrutiny over these promises, first and foremost at the level of the legislator, with the task of executive, which it is now prepared to assume and fulfil itself. And then we need to monitor its implementation. Then the people of Latvia will have the hope that something will be done. I call for support for the inclusion of this draft decision on the Saeima's agenda and for all of us to engage together in the fight against the OIC and not to leave it on the sole shoulders of the opposition. Colleagues! So far, we have done it with gentle jaws. But if you still don't want to get involved and actually start fighting this OIK phase, we've prepared a rude toolkit and you'll have - will! - change this situation in principle and discard this OIC area. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U3	Do Members object to the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? Members have reservations. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to prevent the negative impact of the mandatory procurement component (OIC) on Latvian electricity end-users” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 33, against - 39, refraining - 2. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. We started to examine the agenda adopted by the Bureau. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of real estate for public needs – implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mrs. Silver, will you speak against? ‘ Inguna Silverba, Member, against” has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U4	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Every time you have the opportunity to confirm your support for building a golden road in Latvia, I will stand in this hall and remind you again. I think that this spring we can see very well what the situation of Latvian roads is. It is so fantastic to stand up for the construction of a single "golden road" that will cost some 17 million for one kilometre, and of the total investment, almost half of it will only be paid for attracting financial resources, in my opinion, is an absolute madness. I am calling very much for a return to common sense and for understanding that in Latvia, to implement such scaled projects, with such costs when there is such a state of the roads... An investment of EUR 200 million in a large part of Latvia's roads would mean a completely different economic situation and opportunities for people than the construction of one "golden road". So the expropriation of property, although formally there are, of course, no votes at this point for resources, for payment or implementation of a particular route... But in its own way, this claim also shows that the disposal of this property is necessary for the construction of this “golden road”. I therefore call on Members once again: look at the fact that, with your decisions, you... you are dealing with public funds very inefficient. And one more thing I want to say. Please also note that the implementation of the project as part of this private-public partnership means a reasonable price for the project itself, because if the State were to build such a route, this would mean that the resources would be attracted at a much lower price. Attracting private resources – open up again and look at project estimates! - means to overpay for absolutely every km of the road almost twice. I do not support such a proposal. And the fact that such a road project is being carried out means that the property is being disposed of. I call you to your mind again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U5	Please call me! We will vote for handing over to the Legal Commission of the draft law on the disposal of real estate for public needs - implementation of the main road project “E67/A7 Ķekava bypass” (Sitting Manager knocks down with hammer). , stating that it is the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -69, for -5, for -1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes and its protocol” submitted by the Cabinet be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Dangerous Goods” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement’ presented by Member Smiltēna, Kleinberg, Melgailis, Platopera, Šymfas, Krumina, Ruka and Viļuma be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, with responsibility for the Commission. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U6	Good morning, colleagues! Dirt drivers - so “Latvian Television” described the people of Latvia outside the big cities. I have a couple of viewing materials with me. There are, I think, nice conditions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smiltene shows an image.) Those who live closer to Riga go on good roads to work. This is the reality now in Latvia. ( Insight: “What is it? Show me!” ) Please! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Play through the queues!” ) Dismantling machines, untravelable roads, delivery shops are delayed - this is the reality of the road situation in Latvia at the moment. What do we see here? This is perhaps a school bus or a simple bus so that people can leave. ‘ Panorama also said that people do not even use private cars anymore, because living outside large cities and areas connected to gravel roads makes an area car an absolute necessity. Responsible authorities and officials respond: “Demography is bad! You will hold on, but there is no money and there will be no money!” That's what he said! Colleagues! Tens of thousands of kilometres of gravel roads are subject to weight restrictions. Most of them are no longer allowed to leave. Regardless of the geographical location, only after the condition of roads, the government is actually turning a number of settlements in Latvia into the end of the corner. It is time to buy full-time ambulances, and pupils’ vehicles may even need to be equipped with larval chains, as this can often be the only option to reach the target. Entrepreneurship in regions. We're in favour, don't we? I'm sorry, but how? It is possible only seasonally - only in the months when the road is dried and can go. How is that, colleagues, going with politics: to move people from building to road? In particular, schools, hospitals or public services closer to home are replaced and replaced by the word ‘mobility’. To those people, colleagues, it is said: “You pay taxes and stay there, but we have no money and there will not be any money.” That would be understandable if we really were a poor country. Apparently, the thick years planned by the government have actually come to an end, without beginning. The Ministry of Finance has announced budgetary consolidation for the coming years. Named different: negative fiscal space. But it is, in fact, consolidation. At the same time, these residents see on television stories about searching at the “Latvian Road Maintenance” by KNAB, and see that procurement is costing them brutally and cynically. A concrete example is “State Roads of Latvia”. The estimated amount of procurement is four million. The winner is 8.5 million, the loser is 3.5. Where's five million left? Or, how did they come up in addition? Someone probably just put those five million in the pocket, colleagues. What does this amount mean for the citizens of Latvia - those who pay taxes? These are 55 kilometres of gravel for road reconstruction, 15 kilometres of asphalt for road renewal, 2,500 kilometres of gravel for maintenance of roads. I'll remind you a couple of quotes from these stories. Illustrative example: IUB leaders: “The procurement had to be left unresulted.” The Chairman of the Competition Council, Mr. Abrama, said: “It’s amazing that the price can be so huge!” Mr Urbanovich: “This is a violation of the purpose of the Public Procurement Act. It can also be called more rudely - corruption." Right? That's right. Go on. Mr Putra: ‘If the amount exceeds twice, three times the foreseen amount, it raises serious questions as to whether the procurement is related to the interests of a particular customer or a particular undertaking.’ Another member of the STECF: ‘If the amount envisaged is twice the amount envisaged, such procurement should be cancelled.’ National Association: "Purchasing must be abolished, the situation must be analysed." Minister Augulis initially agrees that the amount should remain four million, then changes his opinion. Colleagues were embarrassed, television cameras were marked, and then everything... That ended with it. Therefore, the Association of the Regions of Latvia submits these amendments, in which you did not even go into the agenda at the last Saeima sitting and simply did not allow them to be put on the agenda. They provide that where a tender for a specific public works contract, public supply contract or public service contract exceeds 50 per cent of the initial procurement price, the contracting entity shall reject the tender. If it is artificially expensive, if someone tries to “beat” at the expense of the population in these circumstances, the procurement must be rejected and the process started. I call on my fellow Members to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U7	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak by Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U8	Hello, colleagues! I am not going to speak against the particular draft law, because the Group of the FAO will support it. We do not even insist on the vote and are prepared to hand over to the committee in the same way. I just want to oppose the wording, which is rather narrow and clear. Because there may, of course, be situations where public procurement has been announced but there are delays in the deadlines for which the contracting entity and the contracting entity are not responsible. There may be some unsubordinated property rights, there may be other delays, such as, for example, the New Riga Theatre, where, as a result of some delay, 12 million euros have suddenly come to the estimate. We are in favour of weighing this issue on a case-by-case basis. Of course, in three readings the commission concerned will deal with this. So, in principle, we support this approach and we call for it to be passed on to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U9	Thank you. Although the speaker does not call for the vote and calls for support, he is deemed to have spoken against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 78, against - no, abstaining - 3. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Geospatial Information” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Communication” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Invalidity” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data” submitted by the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and Their Managers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Road Traffic Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On Amendments to the Satversme of Riga Stradins University” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law submitted by the Legal Commission “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Mežulis, Brigmanis, Siliņš, Baloža, Valaiņa, Kursīte-Pakules and other draft laws presented be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ‘ About” applied to speak Member Ainārs Mežulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Today, a new draft law is proposed to the Saeima for discussion – the Law on Gardening, which is designed to give this special object a certain legal status. The project “Lokdensdarzs” has been implemented since 2005, when 14 individuals established a non-profit organisation – a foundation “KOKNESESES FUND”. Its aim is to create a cultural and historical memorial site in Koknese, on the island of Krievkalns, due to totalitarian regimes in the 20th century, for the victims and the dead Latvians, who account for about 600 thousand or one third of the total population of Latvia. Now this place has become one of the national cultural values of our people, where every tree planted, the imported stone is related to the fate of a particular human group. The purpose of this draft law is to ensure maintenance, protection, development and continuity of the garden. The draft law regulates the financing, implementation and administration of the maintenance of the Liqueur Project. The draft law provides that land parcels of Koknese municipality related to the implementation of the project are transferred free of charge to the State of Latvia in the person of the Ministry of Agriculture, while the COCNES FUND continues implementation of the Liktendarz project and solving related issues, thus ensuring continuation of the current financing mechanism. I believe that the adoption of the Law on Gardens will contribute to the stable and subsequent development of this unique and community-led project, as well as ensure the preservation and protection of the donations and investments made. Against this background, I call upon you to support the referral of the draft law on garden law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U11	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. Dear colleagues, Members Armands Krauze, Viktors Valainis, Augusts Brigmanis, Gaidis Berzins, Rihards Kols, Ints Dālderis, Jānis Upenieks, Kārlis Sergeants, Inese Aizstrauta and Edgars Putra have submitted their own proposal – draft decision on the financing of the European Union after 2020. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. Reports by the Bureau on the granting of leave. On 27 March this year, Mr Ineses Bokis was given unpaid leave. On 27 March this year, Mr Ineses Bokis was given unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Išes Bokis requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 27 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Augusta Brigman from 12 April to 18 April this year. For unpaid leave granted to Member Augusta Brigman from 12 April to 18 April this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Augusta Brigmanis requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 12 April to 18 April of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision on admission to Latvian citizenship on special merits for Latvia's good. Draft decision “On José Menaker's admission to Latvian citizenship on special merits for Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, Member Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U12	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On February 9, the parliamentary Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity received a request from Joseph Menaker, a citizen of the United States, born in Latvia, asking him to grant citizenship for special merits in favour of Latvia. In his submission, Mr Menaker mentions that after political emigration in 1988, the knowledge, skills and experience gained in Latvia were the basis for achievements in the professional field. In 1997, Joseph Menaker brought to the restored Republic of Latvia a representative of his US-based company ISP Optics Corporation in Europe - a limited liability company ISP Optics Latvia. The company specializes in the production of high-tech optical components and has provided more than EUR 5 million in taxes to the state of Latvia. In 2009, together with his partner, Mr Menaker established the high-tech company UAV Factory Ltd. , whose part - SIA UAVFATORY - is the first Latvian-registered company that produces unmanned aircraft. For example, in 2016 it paid the country more than 446 thousand euros in taxes. Mr Menaker's merit is the connection between professional and investment activities in Latvia and science. Professor Remigijs Počs, Deputy Dean of the Faculty of Economics and Management of Riga Technical University of the Academy of Sciences, Menakers participates in educational and scientific activities in Latvia, engaging in the promotion of skills and experience of his business manager, giving advice, giving lectures and participating in scientific seminars. In September 2016, Josif Menaker, as the main rapporteur, participated in the scientific conference dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the Faculty of Engineering and Management of RTU, presenting the report “Latvian high-tech industry: myth and reality”. The report is based on the publication of the Menaker, which is currently being edited. The author evaluates factors that contribute to and can contribute to Latvia's growth, evaluates achievements and opportunities, prospects, challenges and problems. Inn Steinbuck, professor of the Academy of Sciences of Latvia, has also given positive words to Joseph Menaker as a scientist in his recommendation. In 2017, Josif Menaker participated in the US Embassy in Latvia's Start Strong programme, which is interactive training for students and students about career, entrepreneurship and personal development, sharing his past experience and programme participants with his Latvian company UAVFATORY. The Commission received an opinion from the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs on the fact that according to the requirements of the Citizenship Law there are no formal obstacles for Josef Menaker to obtain Latvian citizenship on special merits for Latvia. The Commission of Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity listened to Josef Menaker and concluded that Mr Menaker's special merit is to link economic activities in Latvia to scientific activities in Latvia. The applicant has given a pledge of trust to Latvia and has signed it. All the members of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity present unanimously supported Mr Menaker's admission to the Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia. On behalf of the Commission, please welcome Josif Menaker to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On José Menaker's admission to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. (Applause) Congratulations to the Latvian citizen Josef Menaker! (Applause) The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision on the dismissal of Birutas Ķeyre from the position of a judge of the regional court of Kurzeme. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U14	Good morning, honourable colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 28 March this year, the draft decision “On the release of Birutas Keires from the office of a judge of the regional court of Kurzeme” was reviewed. In his application to the Director of the Court Administration Biruta Keire, he is requested to be dismissed from office of a judge at his own election from 1 May 2018 due to reaching the age of granting a pension. Thus, in the statement of the Minister of Justice, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia asks to consider the issue of the dismissal of the judge of the regional court of Kurzeme from the position of a judge from 1 May 2018 at his own wish. On this basis, and on the basis of the Law on Judicial Power, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported this draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite to release Biruta Ķeiri from the position of judge of Kurzeme Regional Court on 1 May 2018 at his own wish.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Birutas Keires from the position of a judge of Kurzeme Regional Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Anitas Graāvīte as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U16	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 28 March this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Anita Graveite as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. To the candidates. Anita Graāvite was born in 1982. In 2005 graduated from the University of Latvia, obtaining legal qualification. In 2009, he also received a Master of Social Sciences in Law. On 23 April 2015, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Anita Gravitis as a judge of a district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered Anita Graāvīte to perform the duties of a judge in the court of Zemgale suburb of Riga, and with effect from 1 February 2017 transferred the judge from the court of Zemgale suburb of Riga to the court of Pardaugava of Riga. The judge Anita Graāvīte will have worked as a judge for three years on 22 April 2018. In order to improve her qualification, the judge participated in nine seminars of the Latvian Judicial Training Centre. The judge looks at all categories of civil cases, all types of criminal cases and the materials to be examined outside the court hearing. The judge participates as a backup judge in the Zolitude tragedy criminal case. The work of the judge received positive feedback from Riga city Pārdaugava court, Riga regional court college of Criminal Court and Riga regional court college of Civil Cases. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of Anita Gravīte, a judge of the Riga city of Pārdaugava court and delivered a positive opinion for the approval of the judge without any limitation of the term of office. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported this draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I invite you to approve Anita Gravitis as a judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U17	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the approval of Anitas Graāvīte as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Inguna Gaile as a district (city) court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U18	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 28 March this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Inguna Gaile as a judge of a district (city) court’ was reviewed. To the candidates. Inguna Gaile was born in 1967. In 2005 Inguna Gaile graduated from the University of Latvia, obtaining legal qualification. In 2007 she received a Master of Social Sciences in Law at the University of Latvia. On 23 April 2015, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Inguna Gaili as a judge of district (city) court. On 29 September 2015, the Council for the Judiciary, based on the law “On Judicial Power”, ordered Inguna Gaile to perform the duties of a judge in Riga district court, but with effect from September 29, 2015 the judge Inguna Gaili from Riga district court to the Riga district court court court house in Jurmala. In accordance with the amendments of January 15, 2018, Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No 412 “Regulations on district (city) courts, regional courts and the territory of activities of these courts” Inguna Gaile was recognised as a judge of Riga district court. The judge Inguna Gaile will have served as a judge for three years on 22 April 2018. Inguna Gaile, a judge for her qualification, participated in 11 seminars of the Judicial Training Centre of Latvia. Inguna Gaile views civil cases, cases of administrative offences, applications by the parties to proceedings regarding the conduct of investigative activities and applications regarding the application of procedural coercion. Positive feedback from the Chair of the Riga district (city) court and the Chair of the College of Criminal Cases of the Riga regional court has been received about the work of the judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of the Riga district court judge Inguna Gaile and delivered a positive opinion for the approval of the judge without limitation of the term of office. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Inguna Gaili to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Ingunas Gailes as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Daiga Lubāne as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U20	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 28 March this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Daiga Lubāne as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. To the candidates. Daiga Lubāne was born in 1979. In 2002, Daiga Lubāne graduated from the Latvian Police Academy, obtaining a lawyer’s qualification. In 2005, he also received a Master's degree in law in the criminal law subsector. In 2008, the University of Latvia received a qualification as an economist. On June 20, 2013 the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Daiga Lubāni as a judge of district (city) court. The Council for the Judiciary, based on the law “On Judicial Power”, imposed on her the duties of a judge at the Riga Court House of the Administrative District Court. Judge Daiga Lubāne will have worked as a judge for three years on 22 April 2018. In order to improve her qualification, the judge participated in 16 seminars of the Latvian Judicial Training Centre. Daiga Lubāne participated in training organised by the Court Administration and the Latvian Municipal Training Centre in the protection of children's rights. The judge specializes in the examination of cases related to public procurement and the allocation of European structural funds; medical law issues; construction, territorial planning and environmental law; customs law, as well as appealing against decisions and actions of the Register of Enterprises. Positive comments from the Chair of the Administrative district court and the Administrative regional court have been received about the work of the judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of the judge of the Administrative district court Daiga Lubāne and delivered a positive opinion for the approval of the judge without limitation of the term of office. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Daiga Lubāna to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Daiga Lubāne as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On re-appointment of Zita Studentes as a judge of district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U22	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 28 March this year, the draft decision “On the re-appointment of Zita Studentes as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. To the candidates. Zita Student was born in 1976. In 1998 graduated from the Latvian University of Agriculture, obtaining a Bachelor of Economics degree. In 2005 graduated from the University of Latvia, obtaining legal qualification. In 2007, the Latvian University of Agriculture received a Master of Social Sciences degree in sociology. In 2010, the University of Latvia received a Master of Social Sciences in Law. On 23 April 2015, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia appointed Zita Student as a judge of district (city) court. On the basis of the law “On Judicial Power”, the Council for the Judiciary ordered Zita Student to perform duties of a judge in Riga Vidzeme suburb court. Zita Studente will have served as a judge for three years on 22 April of this year. 42 seminars of the Latvian Judicial Training Centre participated in improving their qualifications. The judge looks at civil cases with specialisation in claims arising from family law; claims arising from the rights of obligations; copyright, related rights, patent rights and trade mark protection disputes; labour law disputes as well as other categories of civil cases for which there is no specific form of specialisation; criminal cases and enforcement cases. The work of the judge received feedback from Riga city Vidzeme suburb court, Riga regional court board of Civil Cases and Riga regional court college of Criminal Cases. The Judicial Qualification Committee has positively evaluated the professional activities of Zita Studente, a judge of Vidzeme suburban court of Riga city, and has given a positive opinion on the appointment of a judge to the office of a judge for a period of up to two years. In a statement, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia also asks to appoint the judge of the Riga City Vidzeme suburb court Zita Studenti district (city) court judge repeatedly for up to two years. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite to re-appoint Zita Student as a judge of district (city) court for a period of up to two years.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the re-appointment of Zita Studentes as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ringolds Baloža from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Ringolds Baloža from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Ringolds Baloža to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member, Ringold Baloža, to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Energy Act’, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs. Mr. Loskotov, you have to report!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U24	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! We consider the second reading, urgent procedure, amendments to the Energy Law. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U25	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U26	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U28	3. - The proposal from the Saeima Member Matīss. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U30	4. - Commission proposal. Please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U32	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U33	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U34	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses’ (No 1169/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined this draft law before the second reading. No proposals were received. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you fellow Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U35	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “On the Second Reading of the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Canada, represented by the National Defence Department of Canada and the Armed Forces of Canada, Memorandum of Understanding on an Extended Partnership on Defence and Security Cooperation”. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U36	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document No 4749. With this draft law, we arrange and coordinate our extended partnership with Canada in the field of defence and security. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law before the second reading. We did not receive any proposals and draft laws. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for this important draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “On supporting the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Canada, represented by the National Defence Department of Canada and the Armed Forces of Canada, the Memorandum of Understanding on an Extended Partnership on Defence and Security Cooperation” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on bailiffs”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U38	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Executives of the Court” prepared for the third reading. The Commission has received 18 proposals. Proposal 1 is a proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which intends to increase the maximum amount of fines as disciplinary punishment to EUR 5000. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U40	2. - a proposal from the Legal Commission relating to proposals 3 and 4. It is, in fact, technical because it does not change the substance. In particular, court bailiffs are assigned a new function - service of court or extrajudicial documents. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U42	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been partly supported, includes 4. - the Commission's proposal. This is also the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U43	Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U44	4. - a proposal drawn up by the Legal Commission on the same subject. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U46	5. - Immant Debtor's proposal. This proposal is not substantially supported but is conceptually supported by proposals 6, 7 and 9. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank both the Indebtor and Member Nanozol, who will obviously speak on this issue. I also thank my colleague Andris Bērziņš, Head of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, for his active participation in the question of the necessity of reviewing the fees for bailiffs. The Commission has decided that it is necessary to review all fees for remuneration (not only those originally indicated by Mr Kalnozol and later by Mr Debtor) in order to avoid that any rates are not only revised but even increased. And the Commission has set criteria, i.e. according to the amount of work invested and proportionate to the amount of debt to be recovered. These will therefore be two main criteria. In addition, the committee has also decided that members of the Saeima, members of the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy will be actively involved in drafting and discussing regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And on behalf of the Commission, I call on both the Indebtor and Member Kalnozol to take an active part in the Sub-Commission on Judicial Policy sittings, which will look at these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which, as I would like to emphasise once again, will cover the revision of all fees for remuneration, not as Mr Kalnozol originally encouraged, namely, only in cases where recovery takes place. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal by the debtor, for the reasons set out above, and drafted its own proposal, which I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U47	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U48	Hello, brothers and sisters! In principle, I call for support to the debtor's proposal. Why? Because my view is as follows: these proposals to arrange the remuneration of sworn bailiffs could have been developed for a long time, a maximum of two weeks. The Council of Sworn Courts of Latvia sees very well where problems exist. I fully agree with Mr Debtor that sworn bailiffs should be rewarded for all their activities, not for something that he does not receive, but that is why he has a higher percentage of the amount recovered, and we are in some way compensating it. This remuneration must be fair. That is why I do not understand making this issue into November. Rather, it looks like that - and maybe in the next Saeima, this issue of the ZTI will go away at all?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U49	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U50	I can only say to Mr Nanozol that the work on these amendments will start in the coming weeks and, obviously, we will start to discuss these issues shortly in the Subcommittee on Justice Policy. And I would also like to say that that question cannot necessarily be left to the competence of the Council of Sworn Courts of Latvia. Both ministerial experts and, as I said, the Members of the Saeima, who are ready to participate in the evaluation of these fees, must be involved. The Commission has therefore not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U51	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - a proposal made by the debtor Member! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 53, for - 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U52	Colleagues, so, as I said, what has been developed by the Ministry of Justice and later supported by the Legal Commission is appearing in future proposals. 6 and 7 are, in substance, identical proposals, which currently provide for the exclusion of the wording which has been accepted at second reading. But once again, I draw your attention to this: there is a proposal 9 on which I am talking and which provides for a review of all fees for remuneration. Not only in one case, as here, in the wording of the second reading, is supported with regard to so-called recovery cases.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U53	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U54	For us in the Cabinet of Ministers, on the wall of the former Palace of Justice (someone told me that the Cabinet of Ministers is located in the former building of the Palace of Justice of Latvia), it is written “One law – one justice for all”. In our country, we try to stick to the law, but we do not try to keep to righteousness. In this matter it happens that if you sell your property in an Internet auction, you pay 2.5 percent; if this is done by an sworn bailiff, there it is 10 and so on. It's an unfair attitude towards a debt promoter. If I want to recover my debt, I do not know why 10 percent must be returned to another bailiff who performs a very basic function. And the debtor, from whom he takes more money than he ought to take after righteousness, is equally unjust. And wait until November 18th of this year, 2018, November... I think there's a... if it could have been done in two weeks... If we want to fix it, then we fix it! If we want the people to trust us, we work in the interests of the people! Because it now seems that these amendments to the law are not in the interests of the people, but of others.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U55	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add before the vote?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U56	I can only repeat that, in this case, what Mr. Nernozol said... With regard to the principle of the One Law: One Justice for All, it must be emphasised that the proposal for a second reading contains these restrictions, in fact, as regards one function of the post, but we call for a review of all activities of the post. So I call for support for 6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 4, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U58	7. is a proposal from the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission which is identical. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U59	Thank you. Members have already supported this proposal in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U60	Yeah. 8. the related proposal, the proposal of the Member of the debtor, which has not been supported. But, as I said, 9 is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, where the idea I have already announced is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U61	Members agree with the Commission's view on proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U62	Consequently, I call for support to be given to 9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U63	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U64	Ladies and gentlemen! We have just decided to withdraw the proposal that was supported at second reading - to impose an upper limit on the remuneration of the duties of bailiffs and on the costs necessary for carrying out executive actions. In the 9th proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, the amount of the remuneration fee is determined according to the amount of work invested and so on. As if there has been an attempt to introduce a procedure for the remuneration of bailiffs, but such an official, bureaucratic formulation will not succeed, but rather create the basis for corruption. How, then, is the Ministry of Justice going to determine the amount of work invested by bailiffs? Such a question was asked to the representatives of the Ministry of Justice at the sitting of the Legal Commission. The answer was that only the bailiff can answer it, and the question was addressed to the present representative of bailiffs. Her answer did not, however, clarify the criteria for determining the amount of work invested. However, the draft law provides that the proposal on remuneration fees of court bailiffs shall be prepared by the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, at the meeting of the Commission, I asked the representatives of the Ministry of Justice to answer the question about the criteria for determining the amount of work invested by bailiffs. The answer received at least gave me the impression that representatives of the Ministry of Justice were unable to formulate such criteria. Therefore, I believe that the proposal under discussion by the Minister of Justice will only create an illusion about the introduction of the order, it will not solve the problem, but rather set the scene behind it. I therefore call for the 'no' vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U65	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U66	Once again I draw attention to the principle – “One law – one justice for all”. And I said in the past that the legality of our laws is such a small disaster that it could rather be defined as the legality of many translated laws. And then comes the barrack that happens to us here. There is no truth there, but there are lawyers competing who will translate the law more eloquently. And, in my opinion, this determination... This is true... We have the principle that the penalty should not be twice as high as the offence itself, but we sometimes have the fact that sworn bailiffs are recovering one euro, but at the end of the day it is a man that is not one euro or two euro but 150 euro. And I think that Mr. Gaidis Berzins knows very well that there's a kind of business too... Well, irrecoverable, write-down... Then may we, though, look for that to be true! For a man who doesn't know anything, he owes two euros... but an sworn bailiff appears and recovers EUR 150 from him, which is indeed perhaps also justified, and an sworn bailiff has really invested such money to recover this euro. Maybe we're not taking this euro and we're right against this... the whole system, if?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U67	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U68	Good morning, colleagues! I also belong to those people who believe that the bailiffs in our country are now very re-aligned because, in fact, they are civil servants who expect a specific decision from the court, do not do anything for this decision, and, in fact, use this court decision as a basis for all their activities. In other words, you do not risk, work hard, and often just as postmen. At the same time, we know that in the country... There are many of them, but some four five bailiffs are millionaires, and that of course is beyond every margin of reason. But as far as I understand from Mr Berzins's report to the Commission on Court Policy, in which I am also, these issues will be comprehensively addressed. And it will not be that there will be representatives of the bailiffs, that they will put the paper on the table, and they will say, "Behold, we have calculated here. We think we should have this!” Well, that's not gonna be it! At least I'm absolutely sure that I'm going to make them justify every cent they ask for. Given that this draft law will go through both this sub- commission and the Legal Commission, I would like to believe that the result will, however, ultimately be good and Mr Kalnozol will no longer have reason for such great concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U69	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U70	Hello, dear colleagues! I also agree that the fees for the work of the bailiff or the remuneration of the position should be re-evaluated carefully and placed more precisely, because there currently seem to be excessive in some cases. At the same time, however, I would draw the attention of both my colleague, Mr Kalnozol, and those who believe that the bailiffs only receive remuneration for every work that they do not actually have. First of all, we, as legislator, should remove from the law all those lists, points where the State has ordered the bailiff to recover amounts not paid by the State to the bailiff in the interests of the state or in the interests of the poor. The country will then be forced to spend money from the budget. The national legislator has made it more cunning: has allowed slightly higher sums to be collected from those who can be recovered, so that, through cross-subsidisation, it covers what is necessary to maintain the practice of the bailiff and where the State does not pay. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this issue needs to be very carefully assessed: in which cases the country is prepared to open up its budget and pay for all the services, and, of course, at the same time, to look at where reasonable costs are involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U71	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U72	Hello, dear colleagues! I call you, not to be cunning, but to be just. ( Insight: “How is this possible?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U73	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U74	Yeah, thank you. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on colleagues of the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy to actively participate in the processing of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which will take place first in the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy, and also invite Mr. I invite you to support 9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 61, against - 9, refraining from - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U76	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U78	11. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice relating to territorial reform of courts. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U80	12. the related proposal of the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U82	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is related to the additional functions of bailiffs (this is the issue of documents) and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U84	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, which has been partially supported and included in 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U85	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U86	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. This is also partly supported and included in 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U87	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U88	16. - The legal commission's proposal, which has been supported and which sets the time by which it is to be adopted (I stress - to be adopted!) the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. But that does not mean that the commission will do this until the last moment. We have already talked to the Ministry of Justice about the fact that perhaps we could have the first meeting on this subject next week.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U89	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U90	As I said, in my opinion, the Latvian Council of Sworn Judicial Executives, which represents the interests of sworn bailiffs, was able to make its proposals within these two weeks or at this time, so that these amendments to the law were fair not only to citizens, but also to sworn bailiffs. Yeah. To delay this matter to the next Saeima - that is, in my opinion, as Kūtris has already said, a cunning move.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U91	I closed the debate. Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U92	Well, if Mr. Nunozole estimates when the next Saeima starts to work, then he could probably be more precise. But on behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal to be supported at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U93	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U94	17. - a proposal from the debtor, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U95	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U96	And the last one is 18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides for the entry into force of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U98	On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Court” at the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U99	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Executors of the Court” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U100	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Act” (No. 1111/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined this draft law for third reading. A total of 15 proposals have been received. The proposal is the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U102	The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars, is that it will be possible to register in Latvia vehicles in category M1 with a right-hand steering wheel, those which have been subject to conformity assessment and which are adapted for right-hand drive in accordance with the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U104	3. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U106	4. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U108	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U110	6. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U112	7. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U114	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture to perform his duties, Ulda Augulis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U116	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture to perform his duties, Ulda Augulis. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U117	Not supported. Not supported!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U118	Not supported. Yes! I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U119	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U120	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. Is partially supported, included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U121	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U122	12. - the commission responsible...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U123	The eleventh!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U124	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U126	12. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. Some support has been given and included in proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U127	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U128	13. - the proposal of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. Partly supported and incorporated...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U129	13. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U130	So, now... 13. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. Partly supported and included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U131	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U132	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U134	Finally, 15. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U136	Consequently, all the proposals have been examined and I call, colleagues, to support this draft law at third, final, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U137	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on road traffic law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Support for the Activities of New Enterprises”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U138	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission has received three proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U139	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U140	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U142	3. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U144	I therefore call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U145	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Support for the Activities of New Enterprises"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on cooperative societies, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U146	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society” (No 995/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined this draft law for its third reading. A total of 19 proposals were received. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U148	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U150	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U152	4. - The proposal by Ringold Arnis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U154	5. - The proposal by Ringold Arnis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Commission has partially supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U155	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U156	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U158	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U160	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U162	9. - The proposal by Ringold Arnis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U164	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U166	11. - The proposal by Ringold Arnis, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U168	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U170	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U172	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U174	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U176	16. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U178	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U180	18. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U182	And finally 19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U184	Thank you, colleagues. We have examined all the proposals. I call for support for the Law on Cooperative Society in its third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U185	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on cooperative societies in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U186	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” (No 1100/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined the draft law at third reading. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) A total of 12 proposals have been received. 1. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U188	2. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U190	3. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U192	4. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U194	5. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U196	6. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U198	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U200	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U202	9. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U204	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U206	11. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission has partially supported and included 12. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U207	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U208	And 12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U210	So, colleagues, we have examined all 12 proposals. I call on you to support the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Pollution" at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U211	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending Customs Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U212	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined for the first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Customs Law”, the purpose of which is to clarify certain mandates included in the Customs Law to the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as to improve the national regulatory framework for compliance with the procedure of the international transit system. The Ministry of Finance has specified in editorial terms paragraph 1 of Section 6 of the Customs Law, providing for the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure for assigning the registration and identification number and temporary number. There have also been editorial changes in paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of Article 14 by providing for a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure for completing and issuing movement notices for certain excise goods at the border crossing point located on the road. There have also been editorial clarifications in Section 6(12) of Customs Law, as well as the second part of Section 14 has been supplemented with delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers. In this way, compliance of the draft legal act with the international obligations of the Republic of Latvia is achieved. I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U213	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Customs Act". Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U214	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - April 25, 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U215	Thank you. Proposals are due by 25 April this year. Dear colleagues, Time to break. Please call me! Please register the presence of Members! Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U216	Good morning, honourable Members! I would like to inform you that today, from 10.00 to 14.00 at the Saeima, a special bus will stand and today is the blooddonor day. I would like to say that this is a very important event, and I would like to call on everyone to participate in it. That's the tenth time. I want to say that one blood transfusion can save the lives of three people. This is confirmed by statistical data. Please all apply! And if there will be delays, if you won't be on the next registration, it will be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U217	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U218	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Hosams Abu Meri, Aldis Adamovičs, Ringolds Balodis... is Augusts Brigmanis, Boris Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Astrid Harju, Līga Kozlovska, Armands Krauze, Roman Mežeckis, Romanas Naudiņš, Vitalijs Orlovs, Edgars Putra and Zenta Tretjaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U219	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U220	Honourable Members! We're continuing the Saeima sitting after a break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, first reading. Member Guntis Kalniņš on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U221	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission examined amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code for the first reading. These amendments were drafted by the Ministry of Finance based on an assessment by the State Revenue Service of the effectiveness of the penalties related to non-compliance with the time limits for submission of tax and information declarations. From this assessment, we can conclude that the major problems are the failure to submit the following declarations: compulsory annual income declarations, micro-enterprises tax declarations and employer reports on compulsory national social security contributions. One of the important types of declarations to be submitted is the value added tax declarations. It has been established that the actions of taxpayers without submitting VAT return or late submitting it prevent cooperation partners from receiving overpaid VAT from the State, because if the State Revenue Service delays overpaid VAT, it has to pay penalties, which, according to the amount of money collected, can reach as much as one million euros per year. Consequently, in the light of this assessment, it is necessary to amend three Articles. Changes are required in the article on non-compliance with the procedures for the use of electronic devices and devices for tax and other charges, as well as non-compliance with the obligations of users and service providers of such devices and equipment. It provides for additional penalties for legal persons when damage to cash registers is detected and is linked to software changes, alteration of data or non-submission of data. Its changes are provided for in Article 156. The changes are also provided for in Article 159.8 ‘Failure to comply with the deadlines for submitting tax returns’. This is intended to reduce the number of days that have been allowed to be delayed. In the past, it was allowed to delay up to 15 days and then penalties were imposed, whereas the draft law provides that it will be possible to delay up to 10 days and then penalties will be imposed. It is also explained here that before the deadline enters into force, the taxpayer is warned. This draft law also provides for changes to Article 159.11 “Failure to comply with the time limits for submission of information declarations”, namely regarding the information declaration on employees submitted for submission of persons starting work in violation of the deadline for submission set in tax laws or non-submission. Having assessed all these arguments, the Legal Commission supported the draft law for the first reading. That is why I ask you to support it, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U222	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U223	Dear colleagues, Although these two cases - the automatic calculation of penalties for untimely declarations and more penalties for unlawful manipulation of cash registers - are included in the tax policy guidelines as instruments in the fight against the shadow economy, I do not, however, believe that they could give rise to a positive contribution in relations between the country and the business community. Undoubtedly, increasing the number of cases to be punished, from two percent to 100 percent, will not only complement the Treasury, but will also increase the stress among businessmen, additional accountants, specialists will be paid. The only friendly offer from the State Revenue Service is a free warning to the client. These changes are proposed taking into account the fact that the State Revenue Service lacks the capacity to process every delay. However, there is a question: will the State Revenue Service have the capacity to process every contested decision as well? Will the State Revenue Service have the capacity to fight system errors? We were all witnesses of the recent EDS's failure to deal with VAT notifications. Last time, when talking about this idea, when the draft law on amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees was discussed, I already mentioned that it would be very desirable to improve relations between the state and the business, offering it more consultations, as well as cooperation, instead of taking action to punish. Colleagues, Estonia, whose tax administration is moving towards automated customer service in the light of declarations rather than the calculation of penalties, have understood that one of the preconditions for tax discipline is a simple and understandable system in which it is easy to focus on fulfilling its obligations towards the State. Colleagues, it is necessary to stop thinking that Latvian taxpayers are strays and sliders, who are waiting for it only to cheat the country. With friendly and positive attitude, facilitating your work not in the handling of penalties by the State Revenue Service, but in submitting declarations, i.e. by automating calculations, doing it instead of customers, as already in Estonia, you will achieve much more. And some words about cash registers. Colleagues, what is the point of increasing the penalty for illegal manipulation of cash registers if a client's transaction, for example in a catering restaurant, still ends up with a primary Czech? The Minister of Finance was one of the rare ministers who showed respect for Members and came to the Request Commission when we looked at the request on the reform of cash registers. And she openly admitted that intervention in cash register is just one of the problems in this area. The first Czechs I have named are the second, essential, and perhaps even more big, problem. And this is a fairly easy to solve problem, colleagues. It could be a check lottery that is already being arranged. That could help. But why not also introduce arrangements that exist in other countries, such as Slovakia? The economic operator shall place in a visible place a sample of the cheque which he is required to have. It could also encourage a campaign “A honest businessman calls a customer a food or a good if the client has not received a check from the employees”. Why do you have to tame entrepreneurs and people with more penalties at a time when the reform of cash registers to the State Revenue Service itself has not really failed for a great and unpleasant surprise? Why should the already negative background be highlighted in relations where entrepreneurs are taken to the whitefield with ignorance and unprofessionality on the part of public authorities? I call on you not to support these initiatives because I believe that they should only come when the Ministry of Finance can recognise with a light heart that everything has been done to ensure a friendly approach. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U224	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Vectyran. Mr. Vectyran will have a debate on the bill? ( Intercretion: “He changed his mind. ” ) Not. So the debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U225	On behalf of the Commission, I would just like to add that it is true that Julia Stepanenko's arguments are justified. That's right! And it should be noted that indeed the capacity of the State Revenue Service is currently too low. And the collection of administrative penalties is very weak. But maybe that's also why these penalties need to be increased so that the entrepreneur does not have any wish to violate the rules. That is why I would ask you, honourable colleagues, to support this draft law at first reading on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U226	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 19, for - 5. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U227	Please submit your proposals for second reading by 19 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U228	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 19, this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant. Dear colleagues, I invite you to silence the conversations and not talk to your mobile phones during the Saeima sitting! ( Insight: “Who is speaking?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Surname!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U229	All the more so because this law is about your safety. So... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “And also for yours!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U230	Wait a second! Dear colleagues, if someone has an urgent need to talk on a mobile phone, please get out of the sitting room of the Saeima! Noise levels are already beginning to rise. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U231	See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”. I would remind you that it is a draft law aimed at putting air traffic control in order, establishing an air passenger register. In a word, it is dedicated to your safety. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U233	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U235	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U237	4. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U238	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U239	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U240	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U241	6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U243	7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U244	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U245	8 / 8 - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U247	9. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U249	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U251	11. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U253	12. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Undoed.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U254	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U255	13. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It's been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U256	That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U257	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U259	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U261	16. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partly supported, included in 17. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U262	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U263	17. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U265	18. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partly supported, included in 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U266	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U267	19. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U269	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U271	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U273	22. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U275	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U277	24. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U279	And 25. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U281	I therefore ask for support for the second reading of the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U282	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U283	April 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U284	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U285	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, For your assessment, a package of draft laws, developed by the Cabinet of Ministers, is presented, where it is planned to address the issue of regulation of activities of state security institutions in a special law, including much more detailed regulation of progress of service. We will examine the first draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions” (No 1176/Lp12). Amendments to the law are an initiative of the state security authorities themselves, proposing to regulate the work of the Constitutional Protection Office, the Military Intelligence and Security Service and the Security Police in a single law - the Law on State Security Institutions. Currently, the existing legal framework for service relations with national safety authorities has been found to be fragmented and incomplete. The need for a draft law is based on the problem that officials of national security authorities are currently subject to rules governing labour relations that do not correspond to the specific nature of the work of national security authorities (e.g. on leave). Within the framework of the performance of his duties of the State Security Authority, he participates in the exercise of state power, therefore the legal relationship between the State and these officials is different from the legal relationship between the employer and the employee. In order to avoid the resulting situation, the draft law aims to strengthen the service in the state security institution as a special service type, which is different from other services in the state administration; to establish regulation of service legal relations, which replaces legal employment relations; to establish uniform principles of service course, which would strengthen the set of state security institutions in Latvia; to ensure an adequate level of information protection in all state security institutions. It is foreseen that the Law on State Security Institutions will determine the legal status of service without previous norms; it will regulate the procedure for financing, supervision and control of activities of state security institutions, mandatory requirements for the staff of state security institutions, general service regulations, rights, progress of service. It should be noted here that the law of the Constitutional Protection Bureau will not lose its power. The norms provided for therein shall be maintained by regulating in this Law only the progress of service in the Constitutional Protection Bureau. Regulations on the procedure of appointment of the Chief of Security Police and the procedure for appointment of the Chief of Military Intelligence and Security Service are transferred from the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations and the Law on Service Progress, which further provides for the term of office and provides that the Cabinet of Ministers will appoint these officials for a period of five years on a proposal from the Minister of the relevant sector. The law also specifies the form of subordination of institutions under the supervision of the Minister of the sector concerned. The amendments will put an end to the dual status of the Security Police officers, extending to these staff only the status of the national security authorities. The draft law lays down requirements for the service in the state security institution, as well as includes general service regulations, which significantly restrict the application of provisions of the Labour Law in service relations. In service relations, the norms of the regulatory enactments regulating labour relations will be applied only on certain issues, namely, in so far as the relevant issues are not regulated by this Law and the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. Among other things, a time limit for verification of the suitability of an official or a staff member, an oath of an official of a national security authority, as well as disciplinary matters, is foreseen. The wording is also specified. A new chapter is foreseen to regulate the performance of the service by rules on conformity assessment for at least two years, rules on transfer of officials, organisation of periods of service, leave and other relevant issues. There is also provision for a waiver of service levels in national security authorities - similar to those in other countries. It is also planned to improve the regulation of the law by adding a more detailed inventory of the rights of the officials of state security institutions arising from the functions of state security institutions, including the rights which until now have been exercised by the Security Police as a system institution of the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of the Law “On Police”. The exception is limited to the use of weapons, physical force and special means, which will continue to be governed by the Law on Police. In addition, this draft law transposes the right currently included in the Law “On Police” to declare and pay compensation to any person for assistance in overcoming the threat of state security, detection of a criminal offence and detention of persons who committed a criminal offence. The Commission examined the draft law at its meeting on 27 March this year and supported it. On behalf of the Commission, please adopt the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U286	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U287	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Although, according to your vote, I am already on another committee, but after all, I would like to say so, I would like to speak about this draft law, which I very much support. What you heard and what was written in the annotation... It is about the fact that the Security Police is, in fact, no longer the police, in simple words. They are officials, it is a service; they are not subject to the rules of the law on police (if, of course, they are subject to certain individual rights under the law on police only with a separate reference). At the Commission meeting, I also called for a total waiver of the word 'police', which is included in the title of this service: 'Security Police'. The representatives of the Ministry of the Interior said they were afraid of all of you and of me... of how we Members will perceive such a radical change, so to say. But I think it would be absolutely normal if we no longer had the Security Police, which is not actually the police, and it would also be shown in the title. You can discuss what name this might be, but it is misleading, in my view, to leave the name "Security Police" to this civil institution. Please also consider this in the next readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U288	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U289	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U290	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U291	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 14 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U292	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior’s system of institutions and administration of prison places with special service grades in service law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U293	As the second draft law in the package, please consider the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Administration of Prisons with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service” (No 1177/Lp12). The draft law, taking into account the amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions provided for in the related draft law, provides for the elimination of the Security Police from the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior system and from the administration of prison places with special service grades. In the future the progress of the service in the Security Police will be regulated by the Law on State Security Institutions. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U294	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Ministry of the Interior System Authorities and Prison Administration Officers with Special Degrees of Service in the Law on Service Development”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U295	Here too, the deadline is 14 May this year, if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U296	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of the Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Administration of Prison Sites with Special Degrees of Service”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U297	As the next draft law included in the package, please consider the draft law “Amendment to the law on disciplinary liability of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior system and officials of the administration of detention places with special degrees of service” (No 1180/Lp12). According to the law, in the future regulation related to disciplinary liability, taking into account the specifics of activities of state security institutions, will be established in the Law on State Security Institutions, it is envisaged to exclude from the law a provision on security police. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U298	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Administration of Prisons Places with Special Degrees of Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U299	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 14 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U300	Proposals are due by 14 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U301	As a fourth draft law in the package, please consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Police” (No 1181/Lp12). Taking into account the amendments provided for in the related draft law, this draft law provides for amendment of the definition of a police officer, excluding from it the reference to the security police officers with special ranks of service, as well as amendment of Article 15 of the law, which establishes the structure and subordination of the police, excluding the Security Police and preventing the situation that the Security Police is simultaneously forming a group of police and state security authorities. The Security Police shall be considered a state security institution and the provisions of the Law on State Security Institutions shall apply to its structure, subordination and activities. It is also envisaged to exclude regulation on technical supplies of the Security Police and provision of personnel with accommodation. With 1 January 2019, security police officers will only be present in the service of the state security institution, and they will be subject to the social guarantees established for this service. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U302	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U303	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 14 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U304	Thank you. This draft law should also be submitted by 14 May this year. On the agenda - draft law on personal data processing, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U305	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Law on Personal Data Processing” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and has decided to support it and direct the Saeima to review at first reading. This draft law is due to the adoption on 27 April 2016 of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, repealing the previous Directive (General Data Protection Regulation). The regulation provides for the modernisation of existing principles, the creation of common rules for the protection of personal data, so that they are valid throughout the territory of the European Union, as the current Directive has not harmonised this framework and has been different in each Member State of the European Union. The application of the regulation will start very soon - from 25 May this year. And since the Regulation provides for a delegation to the Member States to establish the regulatory framework at national level, it also needs to be done in Latvia. This is the aim of the draft law – to really create these conditions for the creation of a system of personal data protection by providing for the necessary institutions and defining the competences and fundamental principles of these institutions; regulating the activities of data protection specialists; adopting rules on data processing and free movement. Currently, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data is in force in Latvia, and with the entry into force of the new law this law will lose its validity. It has to be said that we in the Commission have dealt in very detail with a number of issues relating to the processing of personal data, because we have also heard from Members that there is a great deal of uncertainty, both in the business environment and in society as a whole, about what the new regulation provides; there is a great deal of uncertainty about precisely the new regulation. Each person may have his own idea and lacks such a general explanation, since the law, as you see, is very general. All details can be found in the Regulation itself. And so on behalf of the Commission, we called on the State Data Inspectorate and the Ministry of Justice to really take active information activities for society as a whole, so that there would also be an opportunity to look at something on the same website, not just on the European Commission's website, and that there would also be more information about the conferences they hold. Both the Ministry of Justice and the State Data Inspectorate promised to do so, and the Commission will certainly follow it for the second and third reading as well. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U306	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U307	Good afternoon! I fully join in what the previous speaker said. I will remind you of what I'm talking about from this platform before the draft law was passed on to the commissions. I also spoke to the Members responsible for the Legal Commission, and they shared my concerns. And now there is also a letter from the Association of Certified Personal Data Protection Officers of Latvia. The association has written a letter to you all, it is in your boxes, and this letter should also be in electronic form. In this letter, this association talks about the fact that in fact the data protection officer is a person who... after the name of the State Data Inspectorate, this specialist is like a small State Data Inspectorate... and that he has a very important role to play. They point out that this draft law, by its very nature, removes the need for data protection professionals to pass the qualification test, as well as effectively abolishes any requirements for specialist education and professional qualifications. This is about the same unfortunate end of article 28, where it is not only written that you should be a data protection officer or controller, but also gives every such controller or processor the right... that he may also designate another person. And, of course, if we are talking about this situation and we understand that the data protection officer has a key role to play both in promoting and monitoring a data protection culture... Well, that's not acceptable. I think we should think about it, because the penalties that are provided for are grand, fantasticly large. I do not think it would be good if we tried in this way to sort out the problems that may exist with a rather large number of data protection professionals. In this way, we're going to find a situation where, in fact, those specialists, the conditional... that everyone will be without any education. And after there will be penalties - and the Data State Inspectorate plans to increase the budget directly from these penalties! - and when these checks of the State Data Inspection will begin in municipalities and elsewhere... I say, well, that's not good. And so maybe it's worth thinking about some kind of transition period in which such specialists are prepared, not just now to calm down: say', everyone can be a data specialist. But in any case, I also support this draft law and call for this matter to be dealt with at second or third readings... Second, preferably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U308	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what can be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U309	Yes, thank you to Mr Baloža. Indeed, we also talked to data protection professionals in the Commission about the fact that, with this new draft law, it still remains the competence of the institution or company manager - either to choose for himself a person who has received adequate education and, in essence, may be more expensive in the labour market as a specialist or to entrust this work to another employee. The choice is left to him. But maybe we still need to discuss it. Does people understand that in this way, in case of punishment, in case of violation it will also be the responsibility of the controller if the data protection officer or the person to whom he has trusted is not, however, sufficiently knowledgeable. That is something that we will certainly be discussing in the second and third readings. And the discussions in the commission, I really admit, were pretty intense. On behalf of the Commission, I therefore call for support at first reading and improvement of the draft law at second and third readings to take place.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U310	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on personal data processing! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 79, for - 1, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U311	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set for 20 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U312	Thank you. Proposals are due by 20 April this year. On the agenda - draft law on consular regulations, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U313	Good afternoon! We work with document No 4751. This draft law was designed to replace the old regulation currently in force, as it was created 83 years ago - in 1935 - and no longer meets the current regulations of consular functions internationally or the needs of citizens abroad today. The draft law was designed to implement the so-called consular directive of the Council of the European Union on 24 April 2015. With this consular assistance and consular services law, we are simultaneously introducing significant improvements in the existing framework for consular functions. The Foreign Affairs Commission held three quite long sittings. We have heard all 48 proposals, we have heard representatives of several ministries, especially from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, we have talked to lawyers, with the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and also with representatives of the orphan court. So we got 48 proposals. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It changes in principle the title of the law from the Consular Regulations Act to the Consular Assistance and Consular Services Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U315	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It changes the numbering in principle, and the chapters are in a new order. The Foreign Affairs Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U317	3. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. It was partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U318	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U319	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U320	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U321	5. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U323	6. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It has been partly supported and included 7. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U324	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U325	7. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U327	8 / 8 - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U329	9. - The proposal from Member Valdis Nanozols. It was rejected because, in principle, it requires Latvia to authorise a state official representing the interests of other countries. This is no longer possible today, because giving such consent does not fall within the competence of the Foreign Minister. Latvia is a sovereign, legal state that fulfils its tasks, not those of another government. And in principle, we cannot recommend that any citizen carry out the tasks of foreign governments as such.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U330	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U331	Mr. Ojar Erik Kalniņš! I wouldn't agree that this is... My proposal is frustrating, so to speak, with a smile. We were here very recently... said in the press: if we do not approve one Latvian official, then the West will not understand us... And forgive me what I've been doing with the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... In many cases, the answer to the question why we have to confirm what Latvia and Latvian citizens will benefit from it is: “A others have already done it!” So, I think, this old man, so to speak, conservative, from Ulmanian times or the first times of the Republic of Latvia... It is a very important proposal today, especially to combat in some way our desire to join and support something at some point. And why do I think this is very important? If you now open the Internet and media, then you would see that 900 citizens of the Republic of Latvia have said in the last two years: “We cannot accept this land! We want to become citizens of another country!” Yes! This issue, which concerns the law of the Consular Rules of Procedure, is very important. And the fact that these 900 people have changed their citizenship indicates that our previous work relating to ordering our country is unacceptable. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “What has to do with consular service?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U332	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U333	Yeah. I would just remind you that the proposal says: 'Without the consent of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the consul must not accept any task assigned to another government'. In principle, this means that the Foreign Minister can instruct someone to accept the tasks of other countries, which is totally unacceptable both in Latvia and in every other country. The Foreign Affairs Commission rejected this and I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U334	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 5, against - 66, refraining from - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U335	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U337	11. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U339	12. - Valda Nanozol's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U340	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “Sovereign, you are the only one today!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U341	All right, Mr. Spolish! You said: “Something has to do with consular... ?” Very important connection: people, 900 people, have left... because they do not feel support from their own country and think that another country will support them more. And that is why this issue is very much linked to the law of the Consular Rules of Procedure. Why am I proposing to remove the words "urgent", "in an emergency" and "if these persons do not have another possibility of receiving assistance"? Nothing in our lives is urgent, yes. Nothing... Well, if you look at the definition of what this means - "urgent", "exceptional" and "if... there is no other possibility of receiving assistance"? These 900 citizens changed their citizenship, perhaps because when a person came to our civil servants once again for help, he said: “It’s not an urgent matter! This is not an extraordinary issue! But it could be dealt with somewhere else!” And then ask Latvian citizens what they think about us, Members of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U342	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U343	Yeah. I just want to remind you once again that the proposal provides for the deletion of the words on emergency aid, a situation in which consuls can help. And the consular responsibility is exactly the opposite... I think we all have traveled, we have been abroad; we are all in emergency situations and hope that our consular staff will help. Since this proposal is not acceptable and the Foreign Affairs Commission did not support it. I call on you to vote against!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U344	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U345	13. There is also a proposal from Member Valdis Kalnozols, and the Foreign Affairs Commission did not support it. (The President took a break. Substitution: “Next!” ; dep. A.Kimiņš: “It’s okay! It's okay! Keep going!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U346	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U347	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from Member Valdis Nanozols. It was partly supported and included in 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U348	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U349	Proposal No 15 is a proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Partly supported and included in proposal 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U350	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U351	Dear colleagues, I will not ask you for a vote. I will thank the Commission for having partially supported my proposal. However, I would like to point out that, at the end of last year, we all devoted more than an hour to a qualitative debate on the protection of children's rights abroad, and almost all the groups represented in the Saeima expressed the view that this issue is important enough to continue to focus on it. Especially in view of the fact that the representation of Latvia in cases related to the protection of children's rights abroad has not been fully arranged and is currently limited to voluntary work at the orphan's courts. In fact, it has to be said that this draft law is, in general, no less important than the Diaspora law under development, which is so proud of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Because it is not possible to take care of the Diaspora and invite everyone at home if, at a difficult moment, our people are turned back. It is important to achieve qualitative amendments to this law, because if the Diaspora law is like a sweet dish, then this law is a coarse bread with a solid crust. And for this draft law, my first proposal, which has been partly supported, as I said, makes timely assistance important. I also say this specifically to the Stenogram of the Saeima. That is, not only when a child is taken out of the family, but when social services start to be interested in the family when the first call comes. In this situation, some parents may make mistakes because of stress and ignorance, which must be corrected for a very long time. Early assistance is therefore particularly important. And, of course, the question remains: how comprehensive could this aid be in a specific situation in a particular country? But parents must receive advice at an early stage, even in the form of guidelines drawn up by the Ministry of Justice, about their rights and the providers of legal aid. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U352	Thank you. So the Member does not ask for a vote. Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U353	Thank you. 16. There is a motion from Member Valdis Kalnozols, and it has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U354	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U355	My proposal relates not only to children in our beautiful speeches, but also to children in fact. So that the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs say: “I see I once took care of my children, the law demanded it, but I did it out of law.” If we are to take care of our children in any situation of life, we can be sure that the first and foremost is really to take care of the law, not to try to find some points of the law, to do something or not to do something.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U356	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U357	Yeah. The Foreign Affairs Commission talked about this issue and found that the proposal could not be supported, because it could not actually be implemented. Such disputes do not represent national interests; only the interests of the parties are those involved. And this shall be ensured with the assistance of legal representatives. The proposal was therefore rejected. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U358	After the debate is closed, it is no longer possible to apply for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 53, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U359	Proposal No 17 is from Member Valdis Kalnozols. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U360	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U361	We've been talking here recently: well, there's four people, kids... I mean, they left... and so on... Well, 900 people... and so on... Well, in principle, we all have a long way to go... and so on. Come on, please! Every child matters to us. And to the previous... that we can't get involved in something... In the nation, our rating is low, because we simply do it -- well, we're not interested in the citizen! Members also say, "What do you come here and bother us here!" Now it's going to be... Like we're here... Something's gonna go there... Now we defend the interests of the people so that the people carry us on their hands! Let them feel that we will take care of them in every situation of life!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U362	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U363	Yeah. Thank you. Member Kalnozols talks about old norms - those that are 83 years old and that are no longer relevant to today's circumstances. In case of loss of guardian of consul's involvement, three regulations – the 1963 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, the 1996 Hague Convention and also the Brussels Regulation. Thus, the draft law of Latvia coincides with international norms and the consul cannot be a guardian in Latvia or in any other country. In this context, the Foreign Affairs Commission did not support this proposal. I call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U364	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 59, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U365	18.The proposal also comes from Member Valdis Kalnozols. This was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U366	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U367	What do I want to say to Mr. Kalnins? Yes, there is a consular international regulation, but it has an ‘additive’, and everything else that we set out to do must be done by the consul. And if we want to take care of our people and believe that our officials must do everything to make our people happy with us, then that is our will. And in this case, on my proposals... I've told the commissions on several occasions, but I'll tell you again what to do... Mr Ojar Ērik Kalniņš, you have told me that it is not ethically what I am saying, and so I will remind you once again of what a American citizen, John Van Eiken, taught me at the core of business, namely that we have to sort out the environment here so that we can come here and see that something is standing here... And here it stands because the keeper will come only at 17.00, but we all walk around and watch... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Nanozol, come on!” ) This point is important to avoid such a situation. So I have a great request for each of us to understand that this is a question of our reputation - not to go around, but to collect! In many cases, our civil servants say, “Oh, we don’t have to do this by law!” As I mentioned earlier, the Foreign Ministry employee said how good she is, because she did a lot of things according to law. Then this point is... What is the old law? That in any situation, if we see anything, we do in the interests of Latvia's country and its citizens.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U368	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U369	Yeah. In this case, Member Kalnozols mix diplomatic and consular functions in the Embassy, because the proposal provides that the consul engages in industrial, transport, trade, agriculture, financial and other economic fields and represents Latvia and promotes economic and cultural relations. That's what our diplomats do in embassies. Consul has a completely different responsibility, and we also have a separate Diplomatic and Consular Law, where all this is described. As this proposal does not comply with Latvian law, the Foreign Affairs Commission did not support it. I call for the 'no' vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U370	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - The proposal put forward by Member Nunozola! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 52, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U371	19. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It is partly supported and included in 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U372	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U373	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which was supported. Here I can only mention that a new phrase is added to the text, namely 'especially in the case of armed conflict', when assistance or repatriation is needed. So it's one innovation. The Foreign Affairs Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U375	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U376	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U377	22. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U378	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U379	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U381	24. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U383	25. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U385	26. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Partly supported and included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U386	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U387	Dear colleagues, Once again, thank you very much to the Foreign Affairs Commission for its support. My proposal was partly supported, but I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, initially in the first version, Members were offered a rather strange regulation: the consular officer was given the exclusive right to decide independently on the assistance to be provided. This also means that the consular officer would have the possibility to refuse individually, for example, the provision of observer status in court. I therefore called for a waiver of the word'self' because excessive independence of the official when deciding on the type of consular assistance - whether it be an observer in court or any other type of support - is not permissible, especially in situations where the minor's interests are affected. And I have to express a real surprise at the fact that someone in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs came to the mind to propose such a version. Thank you, colleagues. Vote, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U388	I'm sorry! Mrs Stepanenko, are you asking for a vote?... Do not ask for a vote. So she doesn't ask. And Members share the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U389	Thank you. 27. - The proposal from Member Valdis Nanozols. Partly supported and included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U390	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U391	I would just like to inform Members that this amendment... if you know that you will travel to a country and you will have any problems, you can go to the consular service peacefully and they will be welcome to offer you lawyers who can help you. Thank you. I voted, saying so, I didn't ask for it, but...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U392	Thank you. So the Member does not ask for a vote. Members share the Commission's view on proposal 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U393	Okay, thank you. 28. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. This was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U394	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U395	Dear colleagues, Although we have heard today that this draft law is designed to replace it as if it were an out-of-date law - the Consular Rules - I did not find any reason why its developers had to abandon the existing rules. Because the fact that these norms may seem old does not mean that we should, for example, now give up the Civil Law that was created in 1937. During the discussion in the Commission, a statement was also made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that this particular norm is currently not being complied with. I will read to you on this point: “The consular officer shall assist persons residing in the consular district with the Latvian passport in judicial, administrative, citizenship and passport matters, as well as defending their personal, property and other rights and interests.” I do not see any contradiction in this case. I believe that it is not acceptable to amend the whole law and completely change the wording simply because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs feels it is outdated. It was also very important to note important places in this law and to prevent the deterioration of the situation with regard to our citizens, because the situation is changing and, in fact, right now - unlike 1935 - our citizens need even more help, especially given that people travel, choose to live in many other countries and consular assistance is also needed in a much broader way because of the mobility of people. I call for this important norm not to be removed from the law, because also in the meeting of the committee, the representative of the orphan court, who was invited, told Members how important it is to ensure presence in the court and how the country's prestige in cases where the representation of Latvia is ensured. And there are cases where the assistance of the embassy would have been very important, but unfortunately we are still seeing some isolation. Both the current wording of the law and the Vienna Convention impose an obligation to provide support in judicial matters, understanding very well that this does not constitute legal aid. We see that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is always proud of the Diaspora law, which I believe has not even developed itself (I understand they are members of the National Alliance). In that case, is this arrogant attitude not understandable when there is a real need for help for people in distress? Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U396	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U397	I invite you to respect those who made this law 100 years ago. I believe that today it is just as topical as it was 100 years ago. And take this point out just so that one of the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can find the grounds for not doing anything?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I don't understand! Especially because there are really situations like this: you are abroad, and you need... Well, in any country you have to get help, some representation in the courts. I do not recommend that you find yourself in a situation where a consular service, the authority representing your country in the country where you are, looks at you as an object: ‘ What does he want? We have no law to do this!” Yes! Request to leave... Let the people of our country really be sure that they will feel the support of our officials around the world!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U398	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U399	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! My colleague Stepanenko's speech was a good one, but, as the ancient speech says, "a" must also be said "b". That is, the fact that we have this norm, which we have been left with since 1930, is one thing. But the other thing is that our national legislation is hierarchically below international treaties. You yourself mentioned the Hague Convention in your own speech, and the Hague Convention sets out very well what consular officers can or cannot do in the territory of another country. So that in this case we know very well... And also Mrs Stepanenko... In the Panel, we discussed this issue with the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Representatives of our courts, our orphan courts are those who can represent the interests of Latvian children in the courts of England, Ireland or another country, rather than consular staff. I call for this offer not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U400	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U401	Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Spolish! If I am not mistaken, you were one of those Members who were raging about parents when it was about the Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Minors of Latvia abroad. ‘ In the opinion of the fraction,” you said such a pity that Latvia has to wander with people who do not understand where they are, and do not understand how to defend children's rights. And you're ready to repeat it again, I understand. But if we are talking about the documents that I mentioned, it is the Vienna Convention. And to read, please, carefully once again the articles of the Vienna Convention on consular services - on how we need to provide assistance to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U402	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U403	Yeah. The proposal involves the involvement of a consular officer in judicial matters in the country of residence and the actual provision of legal assistance. Consular assistance shall not include the provision of legal aid. The reason is very simple: such functions cannot be performed by a consular officer because they are not qualified and have not received legal training, nor can they violate the national legal framework of the country of residence, which sets out the relevant qualification requirements for the provision of legal advice. Instead, the wording of Article 9 of the draft law - the proposal 32 - supported by the Commission includes an obligation for consular officer to provide a person with information about the possibilities of receiving legal support in the countries of residence. Consequently, the Foreign Affairs Commission rejected this proposal and, on behalf of the Commission, calls for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U404	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 44, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U405	The 29th proposal is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Jānis Iesalnieks, and it was partly supported and included in 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U406	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U407	30 is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U408	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U409	Dear colleagues, It's very short. This norm was also removed from the law, i.e. it was not included in the new version of the law, only on the pretext that it was obsolete. I agree with the point made by the Legal Bureau that the terminology of this provision has changed, but I have not listened to the arguments nor have I found in the annotation the reason why this provision should be deleted. I see that a similar proposal has also been made by the Ministry of Justice. I call on you to support my specific proposal, which can still be put on the table at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U410	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U411	Yeah. It was the Legal Bureau that stressed that this proposed norm was not correct, because the consul could not be either guardian or guardian. This proposal runs counter to the Hague Convention. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also agrees that a diplomat cannot be a guardian. Brunch... The Civil Law already specifies who and when to become guardian. Consequently, the Foreign Affairs Commission did not support this proposal and, on behalf of the Commission, I also call for the vote to be 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U412	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 47, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U413	31. and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which has been partly supported, included 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U414	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U415	The 32nd proposal is from the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U417	33.Proposal and from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U419	The 34th proposal is from Member Julia Stepanenko. It has been partly supported and included in 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U420	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U421	Dear colleagues, Once again, thank you to the Foreign Affairs Commission for having partially supported my proposal. However, in this case, I would like to ask for a vote. Please support the wording of my proposal because it is much broader and is aimed specifically at the interests of the Latvian national, the child, while respecting his or her identity, including his or her name, nationality, family ties, mother tongue and succession. On 28 January 2016, this Saeima supported the Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Minors of Latvian Nationals abroad, which is very often used in correspondence with foreign countries and in judicial works. This declaration not only sets out our call for foreign institutions, but also our responsibilities. However, by calling on foreign institutions to respect our views and listen to them, we should call equally well on our representatives, who in this case are consular officials, to actively communicate with foreign institutions, explaining all our wishes for our citizens. I therefore call on you to support a broader rule. Thank you. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U422	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U423	Yeah. The Commission again partially supported this proposal as it was included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U424	However, Members call for a vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 34. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 15, for - 31. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U425	35.Proposal and from the Saeima Legal Bureau. It has been partly supported and included in 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U426	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U427	The 36th proposal is from the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U429	Proposal 37 and from the Saeima Legal Bureau. It has been partly supported and included 38. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U430	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U431	The 38th proposal - from the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U432	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U433	Proposal 39 - from the Saeima Legal Bureau. Partly supported, including 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U434	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U435	Proposal 40 - from the Foreign Affairs Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U437	Proposal 41 - from Member Valdis Kalnozols. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U438	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U439	I will say so much more harshly: sometimes I feel that we are adopting laws here, not in the interests of the people, but not in a way that is better for the people, but in a way that is better for one of our officials or for another. My recommendation is to delete here the word "short-term" so that this rule applies to everyone. Our officials, who always offer some changes to the law, so that there is only less to do, will say, “We don’t have to do it, internationally it is not acceptable!” And then in the end... Well, in the eyes of citizens, our rating is not high. We try to show by our initiative that we do everything for the people, not: “Oh, it does not affect us! What are you doing here, Nanozol?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why are you doing this for? You take our time here!” And so on. We're human! Now take care of the interests of the people! We are not looking for a better life for officials, but for a better life for our people, who have elected us!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U440	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U441	Thank you, Mr. Nunozol. But then state also that the interests of the people are yours and those of your family. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U442	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U443	I don't understand. Doing Mr. Spolish, do you have any undervalue complexes? What about this one I now offer, my person inside? What's going on with you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U444	I closed the debate. Does the commission have anything to add here?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U445	Yeah. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs claims that there is a significant difference between short- and long-term stays abroad. And if we delete "short-term", then the unique functionality of the Consular Registry is lost. In order for the State to be able to provide consular assistance promptly in exceptional cases, a person shall have the right to register in the consular register information about himself, the planned stay abroad and the possibilities of communication. This is particularly important. People on a short vacation... simply ensure that the consul and the embassy know about his presence. Therefore, it would be unreasonable to delete the term ‘short term’. The Foreign Affairs Commission did not support this, and on behalf of the Commission I call on you to vote against it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U446	Please call me! We will vote for 41. - Member Valda Nanozola's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 67, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U447	Thank you. 42. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It is partly supported and included in 43. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U448	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U449	43. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. And that was, of course, supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U450	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U451	44. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U453	45. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U454	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U455	46. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U457	47. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U459	And last, 48. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Jānis Iesalnieks. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U460	Members shall not object. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U461	The Foreign Affairs Commission did not support, and on behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U462	Wait a second! Was the vote requested on the last proposal? Is anyone asking for a vote? Mrs Stepanenko is asking for a vote on the 48th proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 48. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 43, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U463	Consequently, all 48 proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I call on you to vote in favour of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U464	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on consular regulations! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U465	Deadline for submission of proposals - April 17.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U466	Thank you. Proposals are due by 17 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U467	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U468	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inguna Rībena.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U469	Dear colleagues, Amendments to the law on the protection of cultural monuments (document No 4752). 14 proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. And it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U471	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U473	3. There is also a proposal from the Legal Office and has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U475	4. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It is supported in 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U476	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U477	5. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It has been partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U478	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U479	6. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U481	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U482	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U483	And also 8. - The legal bureau's proposal - is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U484	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U485	9. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Partly supported and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U486	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U487	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - so supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U488	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U489	Also 11. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U491	12. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Partly supported and included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U492	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U493	13. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U495	And 14. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U497	Please vote in favour of the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U498	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U499	April 26th of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U500	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 April this year. Dear colleagues, Members Upenieks, Gaidis Berzins, Kaimiņš, Sergeants and Platoper are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the examination of all items on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) There is no objection by Members. The sitting of the Saeima will be held without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U501	Dear President, Honourable Members! See ‘Amendments to the Insurance and Reinsurance Act’ in the draft law. Nine proposals have been made. The proposal was tabled by Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U503	The proposal was also tabled by the Minister for Finance. This is partly supported and included in proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U504	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U505	The proposal was tabled by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U507	The proposal was tabled by the Minister for Finance. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U509	5. - submitted by the Minister of Finance. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U511	6. - submitted by the Minister of Finance. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U513	7. - submitted by the Minister of Finance. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U515	8 / 8 - submitted by the Minister of Finance. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U517	9. - submitted by the Minister of Finance. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U519	I call for support for the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U520	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insurance and Reinsurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U521	April 20th
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U522	Thank you. Proposals are due by 20 April this year. On the agenda - draft law on insurance contract law, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U523	125 proposals have been submitted. The proposal was tabled by Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U525	The proposal was tabled by the Minister for Finance. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U527	3. - submitted by the Minister of Finance. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U529	4. - submitted by the Minister of Finance. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U530	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U531	5. - submitted by the Minister of Finance. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U533	Proposals have been submitted by the Legal Office. Partly supported, included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U534	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U535	The proposal was tabled by the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 8. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Why haven’t you learned from your head?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U536	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U537	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U538	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U539	9. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U541	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U542	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U543	11. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U544	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U545	12. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U546	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U547	13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U549	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U551	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U553	16. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U555	17. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U556	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U557	18. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U558	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U559	19. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U560	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U561	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U562	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U563	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U564	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U565	22. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U566	...Proposals 24 and 41. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U567	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - partially supported, also included in proposal 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U568	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U569	24. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U570	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U571	25. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U572	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U573	26. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U574	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U575	27. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U576	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U577	28. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U578	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U579	29. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U580	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U581	30. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U582	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U583	31. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U584	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U585	32. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U586	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U587	33. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 35.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U588	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U589	34. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Incorporated in proposal 35.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U590	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U591	35. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U592	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U593	36. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by some clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U594	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U595	37. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U596	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U597	38. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U598	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U599	39. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U600	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U601	40. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U602	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U603	41. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U604	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U605	42. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U606	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U607	43. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U608	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U609	44. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U610	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U611	45. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U612	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U613	46. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U614	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U615	47. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U616	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U617	48. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U618	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U619	49. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U620	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U621	50. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U622	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U623	51. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U624	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U625	52. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U626	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U627	53. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U628	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U629	54. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U630	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U631	55. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported and included in proposal 56.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U632	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U633	56. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U634	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U635	57. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U636	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U637	58. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 59.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U638	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U639	59. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U640	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U641	60. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U642	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U643	61. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U644	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U645	62. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U646	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U647	63. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U648	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U649	64. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported by proposal 65.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U650	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U651	65. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U652	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U653	66. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U654	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U655	67. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U656	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U657	68. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U658	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U659	69. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U660	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U661	70. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U662	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U663	71. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 72.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U664	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U665	72. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U666	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U667	73. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U668	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U669	74. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Trupovenieks. Partly supported, included in proposal 77.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U670	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U671	75. - the proposal of Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Partly supported, included in proposal 77.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U672	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U673	76. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U674	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U675	77. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U676	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U677	78. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U678	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U679	79. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U680	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U681	80. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U682	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U683	81. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U684	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U685	82. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U686	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U687	83. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included 84. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U688	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U689	84. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U690	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U691	85. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U692	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U693	86. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U694	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U695	87. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 88.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U696	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U697	88. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U698	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U699	89. - the proposal of Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U700	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U701	90. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U702	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U703	91. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U704	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U705	92. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U706	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U707	93. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U708	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U709	94. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U710	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U711	95. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U712	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U713	96. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U714	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U715	97. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U716	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U717	98. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U718	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U719	99. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U720	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U721	100. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U722	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U723	101. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U724	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U725	102. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by proposal 103.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U726	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U727	103. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U728	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U729	104. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U730	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U731	105. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U732	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U733	106. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 107.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U734	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U735	107. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U736	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U737	108. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U738	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U739	109. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U740	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U741	110. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U742	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U743	111. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U744	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U745	112. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U746	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U747	113. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U748	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U749	114. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U750	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U751	115. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 116.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U752	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U753	116. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U754	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U755	117. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 118.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U756	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U757	118. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U758	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U759	119. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U760	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U761	120. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U762	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U763	121. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U764	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U765	122. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U766	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U767	123. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U768	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U769	124. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U770	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U771	And the last one is 125. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U772	That is something that Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U773	Please support in general. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Local, Kirštein!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U774	The Commission calls for support for the draft law at second reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on insurance contract! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U775	Thank you for the good work. Please submit your proposals by 20 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U776	Thank you. Proposals are due by 20 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U777	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” (No 1102/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined this draft law for second reading. A total of 17 proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal of Viestur Silenieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U778	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U779	2. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U780	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U781	3. - The proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Trupovnieks. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U782	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U783	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U784	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U785	5. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U786	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U787	6. - The proposal of Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U788	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U789	7. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U790	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U791	8 / 8 - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U792	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U793	9. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U794	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U795	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U796	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U797	11. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U798	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U799	12. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U800	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U801	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U802	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U803	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U804	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U805	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U806	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U807	16. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U808	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U809	And finally 17. - The proposal of Viestur Silenieks, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U810	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U811	We have therefore examined all 17 proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U812	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U813	Thank you. The Commission will wait until 17 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U814	Thank you. Proposals are due by 17 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U815	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” (No 1173/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined 16 proposals for the second reading of this draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U816	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U817	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U818	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U819	3. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U820	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U821	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U822	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U823	5. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U824	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U825	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U826	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U827	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. 9 has been partially supported and included. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U828	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U829	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Is partially supported, included in 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U830	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U831	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U832	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U833	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U834	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U835	11. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U836	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U837	12. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U838	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U839	13. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U840	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U841	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Mr. Janis Eglīte, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U842	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U843	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U844	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U845	And finally 16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U846	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U847	So, colleagues, we have examined all 16 proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U848	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U849	Thank you for your support, colleagues. Let us wait until 17 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U850	Thank you. Proposals are due by 17 April this year. The agenda is an examination of the own-initiative proposals. Draft decision on the financing of the European Union after 2020 Who will report on behalf of the applicants? Member Viktors Valainis on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U851	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Today we have ahead of you the draft decision of the Saeima on the financing of the European Union after 2020. I want to tell you about the context, why right now... ( Insight: ‘ Elections! ’) ) A very active discussion is currently taking place in the Member States of the European Union, the European Parliament, the European Commission on the future of the European Union's Member States' budgets. The European Commission has already said that on 2 May it will present its proposal on what it will do. In the background to this offer, we are now seeing a number of challenges that do not make this process easy - there are Brexit, refugee issues, security issues. And Latvia is, of course, involved in these discussions. The Prime Minister, the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Finance are involved; of course, the Foreign Minister is also involved in this debate. But, in my opinion, the Saeima should not stand aside either; it should now present its vision of what should be reflected in this report in a preventive manner. In my opinion, this is the moment when we must express and defend our position on the issue of European Union money for Latvia's future development. We will not be at peace if Latvia does not have sufficient European Union funding to be able to continue the structural reforms that have already been undertaken so that it can contribute to increasing the standard of living and prosperity by bringing our development closer to the average level of the Member States of the European Union. We appreciate the contribution of the European Union funds to national growth, but the programmes successfully launched must be continued so that we continue to move towards growth and indeed reach the average level of development of the Member States of the European Union. Cohesion policy investments are and will be very important support for Latvia's growth and development projects, and every citizen feels it in their territory: health institutions, schools have been modernised; there is support for business infrastructure; there is support for mobility by developing road infrastructure; there is support for reducing social inequalities and other projects. In the context of cohesion policy, however, it must be said that it is equally important to eliminate the inequalities that exist between farmers. We need to make sure that direct payments are finally adjusted so that the Latvian farmer receives the same amount as the French farmer. This inequality cannot continue forever. I would like to draw particular attention to the need to provide for this support for small and medium-sized farmers. The challenge for the whole of the European Union is, of course, the development of science and innovation. The world's top universities every year join one of the universities in Asia, but the sadst thing in this regard is that one of the universities in the European Union falls out of this top. It is therefore imperative to strengthen funding for the overall development of science in the European Union. What, though, is the most important thing in this case? Of course, we must make sure that our scientists also have access to this funding. I am in favour of the Saeima already taking part and defining the position, which is important for Latvia in the context of the European Union's multiannual budget after 2020. I call on the Saeima to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U852	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U853	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Once on one of the draft laws that I myself submitted, one former Member of the Saeima said something that I will repeat now: this draft decision brings just as much political weight as one record on the Twitter, that is, no one. First of all, I have a question for the authors of this draft decision: who is the addressee? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Kols: “The European Parliament!” ) Because the draft decision has no addressee. Yes, everything is written in the text - the European Parliament, the European Commission... Even before that, we had a debate here in the Saeima about business angels. Perhaps we also want to address some angels in heaven here who are responsible for the good minds of Strasbourg officials. This draft decision is a list of wishes that is very... psychologists also recommend placing their desires on paper and sometimes putting on the wall or drawing them, i.e. visualizing your goal so that it remains a reminder to us. Let it be. But, you know, the Latvian government must also set an example for us in Latvia. If we ask for equality in the European context, so that Europe as a whole is not seen as a single whole, but that differences are also looked at across Europe... Ladies and gentlemen, we also call on our government to finally really take action to reduce inequalities right here in Latvia and to set an example for all European gentlemen. In particular, this draft decision can be reworded very easily. Well, for example, I can start from the very beginning. ‘ The importance of the state budget, especially in the growth and development of less developed regions and municipalities, as well as the need to reflect the principles of solidarity and justice in the formation of the state budget, is highlighted by the declarations of several governments of Latvia that have been made so far. Regions of the Republic of Latvia highly appreciate the support provided by the state (of course also European funds) to the development of certain Latvian cities, which have contributed to economic growth in them, however, it has still not helped to bring economic indicators of entire statistical regions closer to the country's average level of development. It has to be acknowledged that the regional policy of the government so far has helped to mitigate certain economic shocks, but differences between regions and individual municipalities remain. Latvian national regional policy must act as a sustainable model for the development of the entire territory of the country, which is resilient to the challenges of globalisation, including the loss of the working population, especially at regional level. It should be stressed that national regional policy must serve to reduce differences in economic development between regions of Latvia, promote the development of innovative economies, address the rapid dynamics of the labour market by offering competence-based learning of knowledge and skills, reduce the risk of poverty, strengthen the growth of development centres and territorial cooperation.” And it could go on. It is also necessary to highlight Latvia's agricultural productivity, to achieve a sufficiently high standard of living for the rural population, to ensure that consumers receive products at reasonable prices. It should be noted that rural areas continue to face significant employment, infrastructure and other socio-economic challenges, and rural development must be supported. A strong and united Latvia will be based on a multi-annual national budget, which will strike a balance between what we have done so far and the fight against new challenges such as internal and external security, reducing migration flows and strengthening the state border. And by the end. In my opinion, all this collection of good intentions should be supplemented by a specific request to the government to prepare and submit a draft law to the Saeima, so that, after a hundred years of waiting, we can finally create administrative regions in accordance with Article 3 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. And I would have no personal objection if such a project were to be signed by the Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Murniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U854	Thank you. The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U855	Honorary Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, European funds have provided important support to our country's economy and its strengthening. We have received €4.5 billion in the period 2007-2013; we have received and will continue to receive up to €4.4 billion in the period 2014-2020. We will receive around 3,000 euros per citizen in this period from the European Union budget. European funds: in recent years it has been one of the biggest drivers of our economy. They have helped to work successfully in times of crisis, come out of it and recover. And even though someone may ever be disgusting about being in the European Union, we have been the fourth largest net beneficiaries among the Member States of the European Union, we have successfully invested support in various economic areas - entrepreneurship, education, research, health, employment promotion and others. European funds account for around 70 per cent of the total available public funding. There are, of course, also a number of things that we will need to improve and look to in the future, because let us be realistic! - European funds will not flow forever. And therefore, with each of the next euro we obtain, which we invest in our economy, we must be able to generate more and more euro so that we become independent and independent. And that is why support for the next period will continue to be an important part of reducing economic disparities between the Member States of the European Union, promoting the development of an innovative economy, tackling the rapid dynamics of the labour market, reducing the risk of poverty and strengthening the growth of development centres. Colleagues! The European funds allow us to draw closer to the level of the more developed countries of the European Union every year, and that is why we must not stop halfway now, with the risk of losing what has already been done. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft decision, for European Union funding to be provided during the next reference period! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U856	Thank you. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U857	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Regardless of how the European Union will develop in the future and what challenges we will face, Latvia will clearly have one of the most important priorities and, at the same time, one of the challenges will be the next multiannual budget of the European Union. Although the term "success story" is already folklore and is often associated with something unpleasant, it must be recognised that cohesion policy is indeed one of the success stories of the European Union at the moment. And here, too, I would like a small derogation. Let me give you one analogy. The European Union was built after the Second World War, literally on the ruins and ash. And we see that fate played so that part of the European Union's current Member States were separated at that time: Europe was divided by a Iron Curtain. And we remember that Western Europe, after the Second World War, had quite a support - the Marshall Plan, which helped Western countries recover from the Second World War - to build their economies. Clearly, the free market economy has developed! On the other hand, we were under the occupation power of those on the other side who are now members of the European Union. Planning economy with stagnation! And also by regaining independence, so the Eastern European countries... We see that the old Member States of the European Union were also aware of the need to align the development of the European Union and in 1994 established a Cohesion Fund aimed at promoting economic cohesion between the Member States of the European Union, thus promoting integration. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) That is why I would call cohesion a kind of, now a Marshall Plan for the European Union. And the positive impact on countries in particular from cohesion is on average four percent and can grow even faster depending on where the sector is investing. Each euro spent on this policy in 2023 will provide a return of almost three euros. So when cohesion policy invests EUR 350 billion, we can count on the fact that, overall, these investments will have attracted around EUR 1 trillion to the economy. The cohesion policy so far has helped to promote development and mitigate various economic shocks, and its contribution to Latvia's development is unmeasurable because it has helped to promote economic growth and productivity, as well as allowed us to approach the European Union's average level of development. In order to achieve the objectives set by the European Union as a whole and by the Member States, cohesion policy must provide adequate funding. And this must be done because this impact is permanent, significant and absolutely unmeasurable. At the same time, since Britain's decision to withdraw from the European Union, we have been thinking about the expected financial shortfall as a result in the European Union's budget. The potential shortfall is huge - up to EUR 12 billion per year - and it has opened the door to an unpleasant debate on the overall development of the budget and has caused concern about what will happen to Latvia with the funds of the European Union that are so important at the moment. It has often been stated that the lack of money created by Brexit will probably not be replaced by new funding and that the new budget should focus on the priorities of the European Union, such as protection, the prevention of the effects of the migration crisis and other aspects. This means that funding for cohesion policy could also be significantly reduced. But that shouldn't be the case. We should be thinking not of cutting the budget, but of creating a fair and adequately large multiannual budget - a budget that would be able to increase the prosperity of the Member States of the European Union in proportion. Cohesion policy is one of the very important aspects which, here in Latvia, promotes the creation of new jobs, sustainable development and innovation. Through cohesion policy, we are also strengthening the single market and the single currency, and it is therefore important to provide for appropriate funding for cohesion policy after 2020. The National Union is in favour of a fair multiannual budget of the European Union for 2021-2027. The UK's withdrawal from the European Union is neither sufficient nor reasonable to reduce spending nor review funding for the various programmes and to accept a potential reduction in cohesion policy funding. The reallocation of money must be fair and even so that farmers are in equal positions in Latvia and, for example, in France. I think there will not be anyone who could disagree with this position at the moment. Latvia must strongly stand up for maintaining the amount of cohesion funding at least in the current level and ensuring balanced direct payments to Latvian farmers. And with this draft decision, we are taking concrete action. Instead of being concerned, we can act, express our position loudly and represent our interests in the European Union's budgetary negotiations. I therefore call on everyone to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U858	Thank you. The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U859	Colleagues! I'm not gonna bother you long. I just read the German magazine Spiegel... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš shows the magazine.) Very difficult reading, difficult German language. But I think I'll tell you something very interesting. I mean, here's the article "On the foot for lost money". New winds blow in Berlin. Germany is the largest donor country and is ready to pay more, Mr. Kola! Germany will cover part of what England will no longer pay. But there are two rules now. German taxpayers want to know what is happening to their money. And here we go back to European values... That there's no war... So make it up, as Mr. Cole said... But also, in order not to return dictatorships, authoritarianism... And there are two... With one word, all this can be said... Democracy is its main value. And the second is honesty, don't steal! Can you imagine?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament wanted to go to Hungary to see what is going on there, it was made more difficult in Budapest. Something like that would like to be done in Latvia, huh? You don't have to come to us. And their conclusion was, “You know, we don’t know where that money goes!” One alarmer came to America (we will soon have a law on alarmers) who discovered that EUR 4 billion of the money from the European Commission had been stolen. And he's now being protected by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. In America! And Orban himself... The little dandruff circles around his house, but it has not been seen that there are especially many passengers to ride with it... You see, it can't happen anymore! Brussels also says: “It’s enough! We transfer billions. It's enough to do that!” And to live after that in eternal stress... It must take care, see if its money is stolen or stolen. They're new winds. We are looking at this situation quite well, because we have been concerned about this problem in the past, but this will, of course, have an impact on the budgetary negotiations in Brussels. Second. You know that Poland has problems with the judiciary. And Eatinger, the Commissioner for Budget in the European Union, moved recently to Poland and was expected to be king. You know that the Commission is preparing sanctions against Poland. But suddenly he is directly accepted as a king! And it sounds like he has found a solution to the problems of Poland and the European Union. And that Poland has reviewed its judiciary... that, for example, women's judges will not be discriminated against. This is the new law. You don't believe that? But that's what it is! So it's... These are the new winds that blow - values, democracy and honesty. Note, this is the mood in Brussels! And even more so, this is also the case in Berlin! By the way, we need to start learning German, read it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “OK!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U860	Thank you. I closed the debate. (Applause) Does Mr. Valaiņa want to add something on behalf of the applicants? No, no. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On European Union funding after 2020”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, I think that (The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) I won't even hear myself soon. The items on the agenda have been examined but those put to the vote by Members. Members Morozov, Stepanenko, Clementyev, Krūmiņš and Miloslavskis submitted the question “On the Head of Study and Science Administration”, which we hand over to the Minister of Education and Science for their response. Members Lazareva, Klementjev, Stepanenko, Morozov and Jakmirov submitted the question “On the quality control of education and the competitiveness of the education system” that we submitted to the Prime Minister for a reply. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Now, listen to me! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Here, in the Chamber, tomorrow will be held at the 8th Youth Saeima. They will discuss how we live and will sit in the seats of Members. Please take your personal belongings. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U861	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Hosam Abu Meri, Aldis Adamovičs, Augusts Brigmanis, Boris Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Astrid Harjus, Rihards Kols... is, Līga Kozlovska, Armands Krauze, Romanas Mežeckis, Romanas Naudiņš, Vitalijs Orlovs, Edgars Putra and Zenta Tretjaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-04-12-PT12-475-U862	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
