ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-18-PT13-505-U1	Hello, honourable Members! The official sitting of the Saeima of 18 November 2018, dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia, is open.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-18-PT13-505-U2	Name of the holiday address The President of the Saeima Presidium Ināra Mūrniece. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-18-PT13-505-U3	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ministers, honours! Dear people! This is a big time! We have gathered together on Latvia's 100th birthday! The establishment of our country is the most important turning point in the history of our people. The Latvian state's desire was and is firm and unwavering. It is a choice – to live in your own country and decide your own destiny. We are chosen and happy that Latvia can celebrate 100 years in a free and democratic country. And we have been given the opportunity to gather in the same place where the independent Republic of Latvia was proclaimed a hundred years ago. The cornerstones on which the newly established country based were the nation's dream of independent Latvia, the ability of politicians to agree on a higher idea and parliamentary democracy. Today only with admiration can we conclude how politically mature and modern the country of Latvia was at the time of its birth. How far-sighted the politicians were! The Latvian Parliament, the People's Council, had formulated a modern, even Western Europe-wide progressive political platform: democratic state facilities, electoral rights for both sexes, respect for national minorities' interests, freedom of the press, freedom of expression and assembly. It was also clearly stated – Latvia's foreign policy place will be in the People's Union or the League of Nations. Under the leadership of Karl Ulmanis, the newly appointed government was determined to pursue all the goals set by the People's Council. After five years of freedom struggles, Latvians were able to do everything necessary to make the country fully operational and record themselves on the map of the world. The Constitutional Meeting and the first President of Latvia – Jānis Čakste – were elected. Latvia was fully recognised internationally and admitted to the People's Union. In 1922, our constitution – the Constitution – was adopted. The main driving force was the state’s desire. People's awareness that national identity, Latvian language and freedom can be ensured only by the state of Latvia. And that's why politicians need to be able to agree for the people and the state. Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia's statehood has always been linked to geopolitical processes in Europe and the world. It was influenced by World War I and War II in the 20th century and by the collapse of the Soviet Union. The restoration of our country's independence on 4 May 1990 is in vain called a miracle, an incredible and fantastic event. It is difficult for the world to find a precedent that a nation that has lost its freedom and has spent half a century in the strife of totalitarian and repressive regimes is capable of taking off just as it is from its profits, regaining freedom and restoring a democratic state. This is and remains the special example of Latvia and the whole Baltic, which is respected and admired by the whole free world. Therefore, we are so proud of the unbreakable spirit of the Latvian nation and the strength of our national idea. Nearly 30 years ago, the government and the consensus of all the patriotic forces, like the establishment of their own country in 1918, helped to find the best way to restore their statehood, democracy and return to Western civilization. Thank you to all those who fell in their hands at that time and were able to restore the Republic of Latvia on 4 May 1990! They're among us today. (Applause) Thank you. Thank you to all the compatriots, the participants of the Citizens' Congress, and today I will also say personally to Egil Levit, who played a crucial role in writing the basic document from which the Declaration of Independence of 4 May was made, as well as in drafting the preamble to the Constitution, which strengthened the constitutional sustainability of our country. Thank you both to those who, a hundred years ago, and to those who once again exercised the right of self-determination of the nation almost 30 years ago. Our values and ideals have not changed. While awaiting the centenary of Latvia's country, some have allowed unbelievably to sway – can the country really celebrate the centenary of its existence?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Yes, for 50 years Latvians were forced to live in the occupied territory of Latvia. It has left deep and hard to erase. The repression of the occupation regimes is the worst pages in the history of the Latvian nation. It still reminds of itself the artificially induced migration of the Soviet occupation regime, russification, militarisation, intellectual and political destruction of the economic elite. Fifty years of occupation weakened our language, our virtues, our relationships, and our perceptions of beauty. Now we are recreating our generations' heritage more deeply and fully. People's interest in Latvian culture and national nature is growing, patriotism and the love of the homeland grow. It is impossible to destroy the historical memory of the people! Many of us survive the continuation of our family for generations. Grandparents are giving birth to grandsons, and the time of the family when generations are falling in their hands can even cover more than a hundred years. Through this chain of living people Latvian national peers bring our country's fundamental values to the next centenary. We are still aware of the millennia of the white gene that connects us with our Lithuanian brothers. We feel the Baltic community that unites Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. The time of a nation is measured in different dimensions. There was also great gain in the maintenance of statehood by the exiles. In Latvia's home countries exiled organizations were established, which had specific goals – to stay together, to preserve Latvians, to remind the governments of the Western countries of the illegal inclusion of Latvia in the Soviet Union. The greatest merit of the Trimda is that the leading Western countries have never recognised Soviet Latvia as an entity of international law. Work continued in exile until the restoration of state independence under the leadership of Latvian diplomat Kārlis Zariņš. In particular, I would like to mention Bishop, politicians and member of the Saeima, Jāzeps Rancāns, who was the legitimate president of the Saeima and also the President of Latvia in exile. He made an invaluable contribution to maintaining the continuity doctrine of Latvia. I am pleased to say that this summer it was an honor to reveal his portrait of the Speakers of the Saeima in the gallery. During the fifty years of occupation, the state of Latvia continued to exist legally. Idejskis kept living in people here on the land of Latvia. Latvian national partisans fought against the Soviet occupation regime ten years after the Second World War. The ideals of independence and democracy were pursued by dissidents or citizens' rights defenders. People kept their faith in the idea of the restoration of the state. The people's non-violent resistance hit the river's rescue movement, the Baltic route and during the Barikazes. Honourable Members! How far-sighted and intelligent are we who represent the Latvian people today? What are the great objectives and tasks that we will set for our country and government? What will be our political heritage, which will be measured by our successors in the next hundred years? The recent parliamentary elections confirmed that there is no doubt about Latvia's geopolitical position for a convincing majority of Latvian voters. Latvia's membership of the European Union, NATO, membership of the Western democratic world is indisputable. The crucial thing is that our country's foreign policy vector will not change in the future, because demonstrating the military activity and strength of the Kremlin in our region will not worry tomorrow or the other day. Security is and will be our priority! Latvia has done a lot in the short term to strengthen its security – in line with NATO commitments, it has invested in defence, developed its military capabilities and practical cooperation with allies. We know what it means to protect our country! But let us keep in mind that we are not strong enough on our own. As a hundred years ago, allies are needed. Even today, it is best to stand up for our security by working shoulder to shoulder with NATO partners from Europe, the United States and Canada. On behalf of the people of Latvia, I thank our allies for their unmeasurable support for our security, for their participation in the NATO Force Battle Group in Latvia. Together we are good at success! Thank you to the National Armed Forces, the Land Guards and the New Guards. Thank you to our border guards, the police, the rescue service! But society as a whole must think about how to develop resilience to the elements of the hybrid war – cyber attacks and misinformation aimed at domestic weakening of the country and undermining of faith in its country. Our protection must be comprehensive! It must involve all sorts of institutions, the whole of society. Protecting Latvia is the honour and duty of every citizen of Latvia! We must also protect democracy. That is the value placed at the heart of our country. To say that for every new generation, democracy needs to be discovered and re-learned. Most importantly, democracy can only exist within the framework of the rule of law, while populism seeks to ignore this framework. In order to strengthen democracy, we need to strengthen the rule of law. And it can only be done by legal methods. Democracy is also a responsibility, making thoughtful and comprehensive decisions that strengthen society and the state in the long term. In the short term, populism, which may seem desirable, may eventually turn out to be damaging to a country. Latvia has also not followed political populism, which accepts promises of better life without justification for how to ensure this life. Ladies and gentlemen! These parliamentary elections showed that the internal political mood, which, a few years ago, contributed to the formation of a numerically larger party that clearly declared its ideological setting, has now changed. It is more often than not a political desire to unite in order to address a single theme or individual problem. However, the state and its administration are a complex mechanism with different dimensions, including social, historical, legal and, of course, political. All branches of political power must work in the way provided for by the Constitution. Yes, parliamentary democracy gives the Saeima great power. However, sovereign power belongs to the people of Latvia. Every Member must work not only for his own constituents, but also for the benefit of all the people. If political parties working in Parliament accept only those objectives that are in the interest of those parties or their constituents only, then this becomes risky. Our country is Vidzeme, Kurzeme, Latgale and Zemgale. Everyone has to see better life opportunities for himself and his family in Latvia. Political responsibility also means the ability to fulfil national tasks. At present, the main national challenge is the creation of a government that is capable of working effectively and in the long term. I am sure that the Saeima will establish its main legislative instrument – the commissions – as soon as possible and will actively work on the legislative work, because there are many current tasks. And the most important of these is the public budget for the coming year. There are a number of questions that Latvian politicians will have to answer in the near future. For example: How will we continue to support families with children? How can we fulfill our promise to grow up in a family environment? The people’s generation is, and will remain, a measure of the strength of the people over the years to come. How can we ensure that as many people as possible return to their homeland from economic emigration? Yes, membership of the European Union offers many opportunities, including opportunities to compete in the Single Market and, at the same time, opportunities to move freely and to work in economically richer regions. The departure of people to countries where a higher salary is paid for the same work is a painful process for Latvia, but at the same time the drive to sort out and develop the economy as soon as possible. We really want the compatriots living and working abroad to return home so that they would like to link their future to Latvia. Dear people around the world! Thank you for your confirmation that you are still part of Latvia. Our country's birthday is celebrated today in at least 37 countries and 75 cities. Ladies and gentlemen! The previous Saeima made a historic decision on the transition to education in the state language at all levels. We finally achieved this, although long ago we realized that the protection of the role of Latvian language and the strengthening of common national values in young people is a matter of national self-esteem and continuity. Latvian language is an integral part of our national identity – unique and ancient. Our country is the only one in the world where Latvian can grow, develop and flourish. And to admit – it has been under threat for too long. The road to the centenary, which surrounds itself and surrounds the country, has been very beautiful, because it has also been a cultural path. It was our own way deeper and deeper into our own essence, deeper into our own cultural space and around the world. This summer’s Song and Dance Festival was an unforgettable event. Their strength and excellence also raised the sense of Latvianism at a new, unprecedented peak. The closing concert of the Song Festival had a prominent name – “Star Road”. People's most popular election was as follows – even though we would feel such a community more often, such a ambience of joy and kindness! This centenary Song Festival was the most beautiful gift of the people to themselves and Latvia on its birthday. We showed our pride in Latvia by lifting red-white flags at homes, towers and in urban areas. The flag is a symbol and, at the same time, a sign of state need. By lifting the flag, we make it more visible in the room. We strengthen Latvia in our heart and mind. A hundred years' journey. Over the course of hundreds of years, our nation has experienced so much! Both elevating and proud moments, bitter and dark times. Even a lot of pragmatic daily work. Just like each one of us in our lives. But we know clearly in our heart – our way has always been opposite three stars for a hundred years. It is our land, our language and our country. Latvia is a great man, and the people have done it in generations. Each of us. Because we are Latvia! The life of the sun for Latvia! God bless Latvia! (Applause) ( A voice out of the cowards: “Excellence! Ladies and gentlemen! The Latvian National Anthem.’ The national anthem of Latvia is played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-11-18-PT13-505-U4	Thank you. Thus, I declare the official sitting of the Saeima dedicated to the 100th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia closed. (Applause)
