ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take office in the Chamber so that we can begin the sitting of the Saeima on 20 December 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the sitting approved by the Saeima Bureau. The Legal Commission requests that changes be made to the agenda of the sitting and that the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Do Members object to these changes to the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Panel asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting to include the Member Ivars Zariņa, Lubova Švekova, Valija Agešina, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, Jānis Tutina, Janis Krišāns, Arthur Rubika, Inga Goldberga, Edgars Kucina and Ivana Ribakova's request to the Minister of Economics Arvils Aseraden "On the legality and legality of subsidised state aid schemes for electricity implemented by the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics". Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The inquiry panel asks the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Valeria Agešina, Edgars Kucina, Vital Orlova, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Adamsons, Vladimir Nikonovs and Ivan Klementyev to be on the agenda of the meeting. 172 the task assigned to the task set out in the working group on the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity procurement. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for the draft decision “On approval of the representative of the Saeima in the Council of the Municipal Financial Equalisation Fund” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Augulis, Reizniece-Ozola, Reirs, Asheraden, Krauze, Kols and others are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for an alternative draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act" to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Do Members have objections? ( FROM a faction: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on "Amendments to the Packaging Act" to be on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -20, refrains - not. So the draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “On Real Estate on Ezermalas iela 24/26 and Ezermalas iela 28, Riga, the transfer to the society “Latvijas Mazpulki””. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The National Administration and Municipal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Fisheries Act” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. ( FROM a faction: ‘ Yes! There are objections!’ ) The order of business has been amended... Was there any objection? So... Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fishing” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Do Members have objections? ( FROM a faction: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. Member Teirumnieks, Jansons, Indriksone, Kirštein and Rybena are asked to include in the agenda the draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the rehabilitation of persons subjected to illegal repression’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘ Yes! Yes!’ ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 16, for - 16, for - 16, for - 16. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Valainis, Vitenbergs, Nemiro, Riena, Kucins, Goldberga and others are asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ Anita Muižniece, Member, has applied to speak against’. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “It was still “for” yesterday!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! I would like to thank Mr Valaiņš and other colleagues of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science for the rich, intense and undoubtedly necessary discussions over the last few weeks in connection with the future of the Kandava Intermediary School. Although I have repeatedly expressed my concern for the future of such schools, and especially of school pupils, I call on you not to support the proposal made by colleagues for a number of reasons. First of all, I would like to point out that most of the 64 new Members who, a few months ago, were not elected, have repeatedly criticised the draft laws adopted during the previous parliamentary term and their proposals by the back door... is going to do so today. This is not a good practice! Unfortunately, even today, if we support this proposal on the basis of the emotional aspect of the issue, without looking at the financial impact on the budget, we will support a mixed and unassessed issue. Yes, the Ministry of Education and Science has failed to perform its homework, has not been able to provide an answer as to whether the capacity of schools in the vicinity to take children has been assessed. We still do not have the conviction and belief that if boarding schools are closed, students with special needs (in the case of Canada, 94 students out of 323, i.e. one third) will have the opportunity to provide adequate inclusive education and social support. These are just some of the questions that have not been answered and, of course, there is no belief about the future fate of boarding students... in particular, knowing how much and valuable work is done by the Kandava School. And yet! I cannot support the proposal put forward by my colleagues and I call on the others not to do so, because, with its support, we will decide not on the fate of one particular school, on which this discussion is also based, but on the allocation of funding to the remaining seven schools, which have not yet been reorganised and which have not yet been closed. Given that, in principle, only the municipalities of Kandava and the Prize are those who are fighting for an additional extension of the funding period, we can allow the remaining schools, together with the municipalities, to be able to deal with this issue - just like eight of the schools that had already been reorganised in the previous period. It is also important to mention that these two municipalities - the Prize and Kandava - are those which have not co-financed the salaries of teachers so far, relying exclusively on full state support for boarding schools. It is, of course, positive that it is these municipalities that have at least an ideal vision of future actions if additional funding can be provided. And here, my fellow Members, the question arises: how correct has it been to expect the new parliamentary term, at the end of 2018, and to move this issue in a hurry until the other municipalities have either reorganized boarding schools or merged them with others since 2016? In this case, we're put in front of the fact - there's no money, the school has to be turned on, the decision has to be made! Now let us decide on seven schools in a hurry, five or six of which are likely to have planned further steps, while in fact it is only one that could become the region's centre for these children, while in Latvia there will be both inclusive education, where high-quality support staff will be available, appropriate environment and local government social services will individualise access to their clients. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) However, colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the situation is not clear and that the ministries have not done their homework either. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported... ( Internouncing call.) I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported and for the Commission to allow... wait 8. January and Ministry of Education and Science, Ministry of Welfare... Mr. Reira, you have a double job... The information requested by the Ministry of Finance so that we as responsible hosts can decide on the evaluation of this one particular situation in the evidence and justifications rather than in the emotional section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U3	“About” has applied to speak Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U4	Good morning, colleagues! I'll talk about inclusion on the agenda... This year... This is our last sitting. I would remind you that funding has been suspended for these boarding schools from 1 January. I call for this issue to be put on the agenda right now, at this point. When it comes to the first reading, I will tell you more about the meaning and substance of the draft law, but at the moment I am calling for its inclusion on the agenda of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 36, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. Members Krauze, Asheraden, Kirštein, Indriksson and Dombrovskis ask for question 86 on the agenda of the sitting, which consists of a draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Solidarity Tax" (No. 166/Lp13) and Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act (No. 180/Lp13), moved following question 2 of the agenda of the Saeima meeting on 20 December 2018, draft decision on the closure of the Parliament's autumn 2018 session and the opening of the 2019 winter session. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) There are objections. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act" (No. 166/Lp13) and draft law on amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act (No. 180/Lp13) on the agenda of the Saeima sitting after the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima autumn 2018 session and the opening of the 2019 winter session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 68, it's 29, it's not. The order of business has been amended. Both draft laws have been transposed following that draft decision. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on International Rail Traffic” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Valaiņa, Vitenberg, Nemir, Ribena, Kucin and other draft laws presented "Amendments to the Law on Education" be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 73, it's against - 20, it's abstaining - it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. Draft decision on the closure of the parliamentary autumn 2018 session and the opening of the 2019 winter session. The draft decision provides for the closure of the autumn session of the Saeima on 27 December 2018 and the opening of the winter session on 8 January 2019. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the closure of the parliamentary session of autumn 2018 and the opening of the 2019 winter session! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act’ (No. 166/Lp13) and alternative draft law on ‘Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act’ (No. 180/Lp13). Colleagues! First, Dana Reizniece-Ozola will report on both draft laws on behalf of the Commission, and then there is a possibility to debate both draft laws together. The order of the vote will be as follows: first we will vote on the determination of urgency for the first draft law tabled by Members and then on the determination of urgency for the alternative draft law and alternative draft law. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U6	Good morning, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! We are looking at the complex draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act" (No. 166/Lp13) and alternative draft legislation (No. 180/Lp13). The purpose of both draft laws is to resolve the situation, which arose after the end of last year, when the Constitutional Court adopted two decisions establishing: there can be no such situation that the rates of solidarity tax are different for different groups of citizens - depending on their belonging to different social groups. Why? The Solidarity Tax Act has been in force since 2016, and because of the simplicity of administration, it was established at that time that the rates of solidarity tax are aligned with the rates of compulsory contributions of the state social insurance. And, as you know, we have different compulsory national social security contribution rates for different groups of citizens, for workers... on the basis of the social security contributions which apply to them. In the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the argument that it is not solidarity tax that is in substance incompatible with the Satversme was highlighted as very important, but the fact that there are different rates. The Constitutional Court gave the legislator time to adopt amendments by 1 January of next year in order to be able to carry out sufficient analysis and prepare proposals which would, in essence, allow solving this inconsistency with the Satversme, while also maintaining, of course, those objectives of the law, which were initially an incentive to introduce such a tax - to ensure budget revenue and reduce inequality in society. The proposal by Members Plant, Reizniece-Ozola, Reira, Asheraden, Kola and other colleagues is, by nature, identical to the proposal made by the government in Parliament: to set one for all solidarity taxpayers: the highest rate of solidarity tax. The advantage of this proposal would be a lower administrative burden and a smaller number of persons to whom changes to the law would apply, as the changes would affect approximately 240-250 persons from the total group of solidarity taxpayers. But in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, when discussing this draft law, an alternative proposal was made proposed by the colleagues of the National Alliance, stating that, as in the previous draft law, a single minimum rate of 25.5 per cent should also be set... a flat-rate lower rate for all contributions at the second and third pension levels, but maintaining all other principles of solidarity. In order to secure the revenue from the budget, which will maintain the solidarity tax next year, the general budget of the country would amount to EUR 42.7 million... That's enough money for us... you, colleagues, the creators of the next government will be very much needed next year to ensure that the principle of equality and the progressivity that has been in place so far in our tax policy... I call for support for the amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act prepared by the Commission on Budgets and Finance (Tax). As the President-in-Office of the Saeima has already said, we must vote first on the motion put forward by Members... starting with the request for urgency, because Members have asked for it. And, as decided by the Commission, I would urge you to refrain from identifying the Members of the Committee on Plants, Reizniece-Ozola, Reira, Asheraden, Krauze and others.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U7	Thank you. Let us start a debate. I would remind you: first of all, we have a debate on both draft laws together, and then we will vote on the urgency of each of them. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U8	Dear colleagues, President, Mr President-in-Office. This is one of the specific situations of the Saeima. In fact, on several occasions in December, thanks to the concerns of the Minister for Finance, we are trying to examine the same draft law. In general, the draft law in the Saeima came for the first time in the form of an application by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Cabinet supported this draft law on 4 December... On 4 December and 6 December this year, the Saeima, with a large majority, supported the referral of this draft law to the Commission. The Commission continues to look at this draft law. In parallel, another draft law has been tabled - the Member Plant and others. There is also now a draft law drawn up by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Why, though, could the disorder have developed? The cause of the trouble is one. In October and November 2017, the Constitutional Court adopted two judgments of the Constitutional Court in the case on the compliance of the solidarity tax with the Satversme and in both cases indicated that one constitutional... the provision of this Law is not in compliance with the Constitution - namely the rates set. The time of execution of judgments of the Constitutional Court has been sufficient. The Law on Solidarity Tax was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers, led in the budget package... Every time it has been amended... the budget package as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. However, the Ministry of Finance has deliberately delayed the submission of this draft law to the Saeima. Why? I think the explanation is simple. The Ministry of Finance expected the budget to be amended or the new budget to be adopted again at the end of the year. And then the budget package will be able to sort this out in an easy way - in two readings, in urgency. This is particularly true of... This is a draft law about which there are many... and there have always been objections from the government's social partners. For the first time, the government's social partners saw the idea of the draft law, as demonstrated to us at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) in October this year. One year after the first judgment came into force. For a year, only the Ministry of Finance had worked on this draft law. At the time, neither of the ministries, such as the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Justice, were harmonised, which is essential for the implementation of this draft law. After that, of course, in an accelerated procedure - after all, everything burns, everything burns, anything hasty to do! - coordination with the ministries was achieved. The Government's cooperation and social partners objected. Objection! And also objected to the committee meeting. But now the bill is being rehearsed and rehearsed. In this respect, the insistence of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola should be recommended. After cutting out that she hasn't done her job properly, she's going... and trying to do it at our expense. It is really at our expense. This same judgment of the Constitutional Court indicates that the Saeima is an obligation - obligation! - to consult the parties concerned when adopting a draft law on tax law, to identify the most effective solutions. Instead, it is not possible to discuss the most effective solutions. There is no proportionate analysis of alternatives. And now, literally in a few minutes' time, we will hear that Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, as she insisted on at the Budget and Financial (Financial) Commission, will be given 10 minutes to submit the proposal to us. That is why the proposal is also being moved to the very beginning of the agenda so that it is still adopted today in two readings at one sitting. In my view, with such a procedure - with urgency - we will directly violate the decision of the Constitutional Court today. Get it straight! Therefore, my proposal is in no way to support the urgency of today. The urgency of this law would be contrary to the responsibility of the legislator for the development of a proportionate and reasonable tax policy. That's the opposite. Of course, the idea of a solidarity tax in itself has lived its own time. Everyone is aware of this. It was also talked and discussed at the commission meetings. Solidarity tax was introduced at the moment when in Latvia personal income tax did not have progressive income tax rates. Since then, personal income tax has been amended in 2017 and there are currently progressive tax rates. They can, of course, be adjusted to better or more precisely reflect progress. In other words, Madam Minister, you pointed out the progression here from the tribunal... the objective of reducing inequalities. Despite the existence of a solidarity tax, despite the introduction of progressive personal income tax rates, the Gini coefficient has grown last year. The solidarity tax didn't help, it won't help... didn't help people's income tax rates either, because we know what Gini's main reason is: poverty... in the poorest population... much less than income in the higher income group. In the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, Dana Reizniece-Ozola referred to the solidarity tax as a francenstein. Yes, it is a francenstein - a sticky, sacobit, unable to function in real terms, creates a significant additional burden on the tax administration of companies that pay... places a considerable additional burden on citizens, account being taken of afterwards... and now it is mandatory to apply for a possible refund under special arrangements. That is all we talked about at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It is clear that a systemic solution is needed to ensure the progressive nature of personal income tax, ensuring that wages are paid at progressive rates, while avoiding further maintenance of pointless taxes. I will be voting today to see this draft law at first reading, but I will certainly vote against urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U9	Name to Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U10	Dear colleagues, Mr Pouce has already set out a number of arguments that I was going to offer you today, but I would like to highlight two more points. I would like to say that, thanks to our party too, we have succeeded in improving the initial offer - not the highest rate of solidarity tax today - of 35 per cent, but of 25 per cent. That's good news. The bad news is that this crippled Frankenstein tax, I would say, will continue, and it is probably a job for the new government, the finance minister, to come up with what to do in the coming months - or to continue in a spirit that is very unfriendly to the SRS administration... and so on. Of the 42 million that was mentioned. Here, I must say, there is an unjustified manipulation of the figures, because what the Finance Minister does not say to the end is that we do not propose the abolition of the solidarity tax and instead leave nothing behind, we offer to leave the rich with a tax rate of 31.4 per cent. And at that rate, fiscal losses would be very minimal -- one two or... million, I don't know. So that should be immediately rebutted by the Minister for Finance so that there is no manipulation. Yes, and the Gini Index was also mentioned. The bad news is that last year in Latvia, social inequality has grown rapidly. That's it! Latvia is among the three most unequal countries in the European Union - Bulgaria, Lithuania and Latvia. So with all the solidarity tax, with all the tax reform we are where we are. And... Yes. And what many may not understand is that it is important for us that the rich pay these taxes. The more they pay, the more in number, the higher in revenue. But this system does not motivate you to pay this tax. These rich people register in Estonia, they are looking for schemes through dividends and so on. So I have to think with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U11	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U12	Good morning, honourable Members and honourable Members! In my view, the amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act should be supported in the version supported by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Any other vote, in my opinion, is irresponsible. As far as the intention and implementation of this law is concerned, it is an organic part of the existing tax system; it is immediately withdrawn from the tax system... 10 days before the start of the new tax year, it will create a dock of €42 million, which will put the implementation of social programmes at risk. However, in the near future, the solidarity tax should be abolished in order to resolve its tasks in a systematic, economically sound and socially equitable manner. The solidarity tax was introduced in order to eliminate the high level of public commitment in the event of the very high levels of social contributions. At the previous sitting of the Saeima, the Minister of Finance presented this tax as a progressive tax, but the solidarity tax is different from the progressive tax, just as the cream product is different from the cream. It is clear why high-income recipients are concerned. But the trade unions were also against the introduction of this tax, as did the political groups... SASKĀJA, our group, also did not support the introduction of tax in the Latvian financial and tax system. In my view, disproportionate public commitments can be removed by reducing the amount of benefits for large-income recipients, who are of very little importance in maintaining their well-being. ( The drug is getting more noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) At the same time, substantial amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax have to be made to strengthen effective progressiveity. This has also become clear for those Members, those politicians who so far were strongly opposed to introducing the principle of progressiveity into our tax system. I remember those times when, with the blessing of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we had a conference in the Saeima. The title of the conference was: “Is there a need for progressive tax in Latvia?” And with great difficulty, we managed to change the title of this conference: "What should be the progressive tax?" So the idea of progressive tax itself created the way in our politicians' minds very difficult and for a long time. Now it is already a banality that such a tax is needed in Latvia. Another story is what that tax should be. The word ‘progressive’ means not an example, but a progressive one. In implementing such a tax policy, a higher rate is applied to each future increase in income. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in countries with a wealth of experience in tax policy, there are usually three or five levels of taxation. For example, there are three levels of income tax in Britain, while there are five in Belgium and six in Austria. In addition, a non-taxable minimum income tax has also been introduced in some countries. Almost all the countries of the European Union that our political elite wants to join would become our... the third-level tax rate is 300 per cent and even more. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in our system, the highest rate - 31,4 per cent - appeared in recent moments in the development of tax reform, because in order to implement some sort of progressivity, the government needed simply to obtain funds from the budget. I will also draw your attention to the fact that in Holland, for example, this dynamic of progressivity is as follows: five percent, 10.5, 42 and even 52 percent. I understand well how painful the introduction of such a progressive tax in Latvia could be, but if we really want to sort out the situation, i.e. reduce social inequality, the introduction of a progressive tax is a necessity that should be done in the near future. I call on Members to support this amendment as the last in this bill, because the next amendment will be the abolition of this tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U13	Name of Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U14	Colleagues! Some comments in response to the debate on the late submission of the draft law. A very wide-ranging discussion on the nature of the solidarity tax took place already last year when it was working on tax policy, involving society and social partners. There was a debate and a debate in the government, as well as a very hot debate here in the Saeima. A decision was made on the substance of the need for a solidarity tax, it must be maintained and it is part of progressivity. When the Constitutional Court adopted two decisions at the end of the year, it gave a year to have sufficient possibilities to draft qualitative proposals. The Ministry of Finance also worked with it during this year: it analysed both judgements, took into account discussions held at the Constitutional Court, various opinions of judges, and consulted practical tax enforcers - the State Revenue Service, the State Social Insurance Agency, the Ministry of Welfare, then sounding everything with the responsible ministries and transferring it to the social partners. About Ginny, the Inequality Index. Indeed, solidarity tax is just one of the tools to reduce inequalities. And with regard to Gini's deterioration in the indicators referred to both by Mr Eglitis and Mr Puce, we have to bear in mind that they are data or this is an indicator for 2017. The tax reform entered into force in 2018, when a number of measures were taken to reduce inequality by rapidly increasing the non-eligible minimum... historically there has been the greatest increase in the non-negligible minimum: introducing the progressive tax rate for smaller wages, reducing it to 20 per cent, leaving the higher wages 23 per cent and leaving the superb wages with the solidarity tax, which, yes, has become partly a francenstein because it was the result of a compromise... in agreement with the social partners, entrepreneurs who wanted at least part of this tax to be passed on to the pension savings. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that business organisations are not the only social partners. Trade unions are equally important social partners. We have always tried to strike a balance between employers and workers. Trade unions are workers and support the maintenance of solidarity tax both at the time and at the moment. There is a saying: “I don’t understand when I’m fed.” It could continue to be a "eaty body" because it is not quite clear at the moment, when looking at how work is going on within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, what are those super-rich pensioners or business leaders or super-rich people in prison who Mr Puce and other colleagues, who are so much against solidarity tax, need to be defended, because everything is being done to delay it. Both when the government, first and foremost, was set up late, and when the government came up with an opinion, clearly proposing three different options and stating what the government considers to be a priority, the Members suddenly no longer... and also such talented and intelligent Members, who usually take information very quickly, suddenly were no longer prepared to go into such a short time and were unable to understand what it is about. The government was invited to submit a draft law. The government presented a draft law. That was not enough either. It must be left to the new government to take this decision. When Members put this issue on the agenda again, it was said, "You are ashamed if you allow someone else's opinion to be expressed, not following the parliamentary roll." The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission meeting was then held with demonstrations so that it could in no way be possible to look at this issue of solidarity tax. And finally, the opponents of the solidarity tax also got up demonstrationally and left the committee meeting. Everything is being done to ensure that there is in fact no solidarity tax from 1 January. All the arguments are being sought. However, I call on all those who are concerned about reducing inequalities, who are concerned about the fiscal stability of our country, to support the alternative bill prepared by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, to allow the new government to build a new house, if it wants to, but not to dismantle the existing one before a new one is built, otherwise during Christmas, the family can stay in cold at the tree in the forest. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U15	The name to the Member is Att Zakaitistov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U16	Progressivity, justice, despair and negligence - I think these are four words by which we can describe the progress of the Solidarity Tax Act. Let's start with the last one. Lateness, because the decision of the Constitutional Court was adopted more than a year ago. Nothing has been done in the course of the year. The Ministry of Finance has been lying on the laurels. Next. It's desperate. What we are seeing at the moment is a desperate attempt to use all possible buttons of urgency to conceal the negligence that has been in the Ministry of Finance for a long time. How should we view this law? It is about justice, of course. But there are different kinds of justice. And justice, which is distribution of justice. And what we don't want is we don't want to see everything shared in equal parts. Yes, those who earn more have to pay more. There is the fairness of the procedure and, in my opinion, this is the most important issue in terms of the Solidarity Tax Act, because the procedure must be uniform and the procedure will be determined by the law. The law must be fair, but it is not the case at the moment. Justice of Revenge. Yes, there is a bad situation in our society. People are dissatisfied, and so they say, “Let those who are good pay!” And this is not a good context for solidarity. We will ultimately support this law, but I want people to understand how much overcrowded, how very, very hasty and bad this law is. Yes, we will. But let's go back to progress. In Latvia, the recipients of the lowest wages pay the highest taxes, there is a problem! Progress must start with lower wages. If, at the moment, we are paying the highest taxes in Europe to the recipients of the lowest wages, and this becomes the starting point for progress, then it is wrong. A fundamental review of tax policy is necessary. Lower taxes on low-wage earners are needed, and then progressivity will make sense. We will not support urgency. We will not support at first reading. We will support the last, alternative, offer. And just because we have no choice. Progressivity is in the low wages. Let's start with the low wages, then there's where to grow! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U17	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! At one time, the sadly famous Bertolt Flick said the following words: “It is very cheap to be rich in Latvia, but very expensive to be poor in Latvia.” And I think that today, if we are looking at the issue of solidarity tax in the urgent order, then we should start with the urgency of raising an inequitable minimum, reducing labour taxes on small wages and abolishing pensions. I think that these are issues that require much greater urgency, because our low-wage recipients pay higher taxes than millions of dollars in the world. I would like to say that it is clear that the rich have to pay more, but we start from the other end. We start from an end that does not help our poorest people. And when our Parliament starts to help people with lower incomes as a matter of urgency, our country will flourish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U19	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U20	Two remarks, ladies and gentlemen! In any case, progressiveity does not mean tax on wealth, as many times... Well, journalists often call it. This is not only an increase in tax on wealth, but also a reduction in tax on poverty. It is basically a shift of the tax burden from bigger... lower income to higher income. And that's true. Otherwise, it will only be a general increase in the tax burden for all Latvian consumers and in fact will only worsen the situation in Latvia. But I would like to draw attention to another fact. However, after the current government decided to start gradually introducing progress and this introduction reduced current rates by 23 per cent to 20 per cent... That fact, too, was a step forward. Last year's results show that the Gini coefficient, to which Mr. Puce also referred, has not remained the same in Latvia as it has been for the previous 10 or 15 years. It's the beak that's down. This simply means that we are on the right track and the work we have to do, but we have to go ahead. From the next government we expect bold ways forward so that the principle of progressivity can be introduced... taxation of income not only for those who now pay it, but also for those who are now just looking suspiciously at our debate. I would like to emphasise that income is not just wages. These are also dividends. The income to be set aside must be the same and the same rate should apply to both salaries and dividends. Of course, this is a very painful decision, but it will solve our problems with one number, which is called "social inequality". While there will be inequality in Latvia, there will be neither economic growth nor justice in the country. There's only a difference. We call for progressivity to be fully implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U21	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added or explained on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U22	Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I will just remind you that next year... when it comes to the application of the solidarity tax, it applies to persons whose annual income exceeds EUR 62 800. Last year, there were 3654 people - about the number of people who would be subject to this tax. The number of solidarity taxpayers - contrary to the original forecasts that this might fall - is increasing every year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Bondars: "Simplely the public sector pays better!" ) Tax revenue is also increasing and we can direct it towards reducing social inequalities. I will remind you of the differences between these two draft laws. First, the draft Members' law states that the current highest rate of solidarity tax - 35.09 per cent - would be maintained. Second, the draft law proposed by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the rate is 25.5 percent... the rate of solidarity tax, which would be directed to three sections - health care, the special budget for public pensions and personal income tax - but would not be directed to funded pension schemes and private pension schemes. This would make the tax simpler. In line with what I have decided at the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I would like to call for the urgency of the draft law drawn up by Members of the Committee on Plants, Reizniece-Ozola, Reira, Asheraden, Krauze, Kola, Dzintara, Yalinska and other Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would remind you that we will first vote in favour of the draft law tabled by Members. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act" (No. 166/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! ( Insight: How should we now vote?) ) I understand that it is necessary to clarify the voting arrangements of the Chamber once again. Dear colleagues, We will first vote on the draft law tabled by Members, on its recognition as urgent, and then vote on it at first reading. We will then vote in favour of the alternative bill (No. 180/Lp13) on its recognition as urgent and its support at first reading. That's the procedure. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act" (No. 166/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 57, for - 14. The draft law is not declared urgent. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act" (No. 166/Lp13) support at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 54, for - 31. Draft law has been rejected. And now let us vote in favour of the alternative bill. Please call me! Let's vote on the alternative bill... Mr. Pouce, do you want to talk? Thus, the urgency of ‘no’. One of the Members may speak in favour, one against and one against. And "no" to determine the urgency of the bill, the Member Juris Pūce has applied to speak to the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U24	Colleagues! I would really call for a vote today against the urgency of this draft law. The objective need to grant urgency stems only from what the high-ranking Minister for Finance is trying to mask here from the tribunal with some conspiracy within the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax). In fact, it is her inaction, inability to submit a bill in due time to the Saeima. And she unfortunately does not accept arguments when Members point out that it is their duty to go into the matter. That is the duty of Members to clarify arguments, listen to the parties and submit proposals. I intend, for example, to table proposals concerning this draft law. I understand that the sole purpose of urgency... The intention for the honourable Ms. Reizniece-Ozola is to have this bill voted on again today at a sitting... second reading. But, colleagues, do you think why the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission could be successful today in examining all the proposals that I have tabled? That is why I would call for a vote not on urgency today. Urgency, colleagues, is not justified. Colleagues! We will now vote in favour of the draft law tabled by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. This will mean that the Saeima itself will have to defend this draft law in the Constitutional Court without the help of the Government, without arguing, without obtaining any arguments. We will have to defend this draft law adopted in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I very much call on you not to support urgency, to look at the usual order, as I said before. I will vote at first reading in favour of examining and adopting this draft law in the normal way. After all, the majority of solidarity taxpayers do not contribute to solidarity tax in January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U25	Does one of the Members want to talk about urgency? No, no. Please call me! Vote on the alternative draft law on amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act (No. 180/Lp13) as urgent. Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 45, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for an alternative draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act" (No. 180/Lp13) support at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 95, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U26	Colleagues! As decided at the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, a deadline of 10 minutes for the submission of proposals at second reading is proposed for the sitting of the Saeima today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What are so many?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U27	And that the Saeima is sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U28	Today's Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U29	Today's Saeima sitting. Please turn on the microphone for Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U30	I have a proposal to set two weeks and a hearing at the meeting on 10 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U31	Are there any other proposals? Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U32	Yes, I have a proposal - three minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U33	Another proposal? There are no other proposals. Okay. So we must vote first on the next proposal: two weeks, which would be up to 3 January. Please call me! Let us vote on the deadline for tabling proposals on 3 January 2019. Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 45, against - 51, abstaining - not. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 10 minutes. Please call me! Let us vote on the deadline for tabling proposals - 10 minutes. Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 45, refrains - not. The proposal has been supported - 10 minutes, so we do not vote in favour of the deadline for tabling proposals - three minutes. Time for examination at the Saeima sitting - is the proposal that today. Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals because the proposal has been supported... I do not hear any proposals from Mr Pouce. So consideration of today's sitting of the Saeima, and the time for tabling proposals, today by 10 a.m. Thank you. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima to the Council of the Municipal Equalisation Fund. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Atis Zakaistovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U34	At the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission yesterday we decided on the draft decision “On the approval of the Saeima representative in the Council of the Municipal Equalisation Fund”. The Commission decided to approve Mr Ramon Petravič as the representative of the Saeima in the Board of the Municipal Equalisation Fund. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima in the Council of Equalisation of Municipal Finances! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - consideration of Members' requests. Requests received by Members. Dear colleagues, The Presidium of the Saeima has received a request from the Member Mārtiņš Bondara, Ata Zakatistova, Jura Pūce, Ramonas Petravičas, Gata Eglišs, Mārtiņš Staķis, Daniela Pavļuta, Marija Golubeva, Vita Anda Steel and Arthur Tomas Pless, Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On delaying the decision of the Minister of Finance in the case of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia of 16 November 2017 No. 2016-16-01’. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. Member Mārtiņš Bondars on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U36	Madam President, Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! You have heard which Members have signed the request de iure. But the de facto request has only been signed by one Member, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. She herself signed this request for us to consider at some point this nice story about what we have just experienced here, from this parliamentary tribunal. In principle, we were also able not to look at this whole request and not to write it here, because it is very likely that it will never be dealt with and that there will be another government and another finance minister... and it has no meaning. But if the king is naked and tells him he's dressed, he's naked. ( Internouncing call.) So how was that solidarity tax created? That's cool! In September 2014, together with one colleague from the Greens/Farmers Union, we sat at business organisations and talked about no taxes 12. The Saeima will not be changed. It's a month. The Union of Greens and Farmers enters the government and immediately begins to change taxes. A further solidarity tax is imposed in 2015... ( From the group ‘ZZS’: ‘ Mel! It was faster!” ), as a matter of urgency. October 2015 A solidarity tax shall be imposed as a matter of urgency in the budget package. ( Internouncing call.) It's not cool, isn't it? Makes the brothers ready, then they lose their court, then they wait until the elections... The regular elections come to an end again, and once again, after the elections - as a matter of urgency - the brothers are being sent back. Dear friends, what are you doing? Dana Reizer-Ozola has to answer for these things. No other options available. There are no other options! That's why demand too, colleagues. That's why this nice demand! There's really no more to say. You saw everything here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U37	Colleagues, we submit the request to the Request Commission. On the agenda - request from Members Daniela Pavļuta, Jura Pūce, Andra Skrides, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Arthur Tomas Plesa, Vitas Anda Steel, Ilmara Dūris, Mārtiņš Staķis, Arta Pabriks and Inese Voika to the Minister of Health Anda Čakša “On the responsibility of the Minister of Health by introducing the Health Care Financing Law and Access to Health Services for Citizens from 1 January 2019”. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants, Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U38	Thank you. Colleagues! On 14 December 2017, the Saeima adopted the Health Care Financing Act, part of which comes into force after 11 days. A year has passed, but 11 days before it enters into force, we have no answers as to how it will affect our citizens. Yesterday in the meeting of the Commission, when we asked questions to both the National Health Service and the Ministry of Health, we did not have any answers as to how many people remain outside this so-called second amendment. We don't have this information. It is also not clear to us how the IT system will work, which will tell the doctor or nurse whether or not this patient can be helped. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Ribena’s intermediate call.) The IT system will only be launched today. Eleven days before the entry into force of the law! No economic estimates have been made for those patients who, without scheduled assistance, would be hospitalised as a matter of urgency. The Ombudsman has also recognised - and I fully join - that this law is a total brother. In fact, we had a year to make improvements to this law, but I can say that the authorities of subordination and the Ministry of Health have slept in the nightmares all this year and have done nothing. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U39	Thank you. The request shall be open to all Members and shall also be submitted to the Request Commission. On the agenda - Opinions of the Petitions Commission. Member Ivars Zarins, Lubovas... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The request made by Svecova, Valeria Agešina, Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Krišana, Arthur Rubika, Inga Goldberga, Edgars Kucin and Ivans Ribakova to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden on the legality and legality of the State aid scheme for subsidised electricity implemented by the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics. On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U40	Hello, colleagues! The Commission examined the request made by Members of the Saeima Ivars Zariņa, Lubova Švekova, Valeria Agešina, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Krišana, Arthur Rubika, Inga Goldberga, Edgars Kucina and Ivana Ribakova to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvils Asheraden, about the State aid scheme implemented by the Ministry of Economics and the legality and legality of the action of the Ministry of Economics. The course of the examination of this request was also a little emotional, which is good. In the course of the examination of the request, the Commission heard a brief summary of how Mr Zariņš and the other Members had taken up the previous OIC requests. We were also invited to the commission by an sworn lawyer, Jānis Juncker, who presented us with his report on current OIC issues, and we also had the opportunity to ask Mr Juncker's questions on the spot. I call on Members to read this Juncker report if you are really interested in a slightly different view of OIC issues than that of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and others involved in OICs! This report is not long, but it is worth it. There you go! During the examination of the request, the members of the Commission concluded that there were grounds for carrying out a comprehensive assessment of the legality of the subsidised electricity support system. And when nine members of the Commission voted in favour, one against and two abstentions, the members of the Commission acknowledged that the request was admissible. Today, I call on Members to accept this request also as a request from the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U41	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U42	Hello, honorable Saeima Presidium! Hello, dear colleagues! Ivars Zarins's obvious - incredible. Well, when has it been? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zarins: “Last century!” ) On OIC 38 times - 38 times! - there have been requests in the past, 12. In the family. Everyone under Brigmann has been rejected - 38 times in a row. And that commission had even been given a new name – not the “Corporate Commission” but the “Buffer Commission”. ‘ Buffer Commission’ - a commission that always protects any coalition minister from any question as a buffer. At the moment, I say this to the 63 new Members in this term: this is something for the eyes... It's really incredible! I am very pleased that this is now the first request - and today is not the last one - that has really been recognised as a legitimate request. I ask you all to support this request. The Request Commission now has a completely different status. At the moment, you have heard nine members vote in this committee in favour. We fought earlier, we told... There was a long debate. Because here, you see, you can speak for 15 minutes. ( Don’t worry, I won’t talk for so long.) It was that the speakers were whirling, talking for hours, just not supporting any requests, especially for OICs. And then the question arose: how can the Saeima ask a minister about what is going on in his ministry if it is necessary to send a request commission, where the gate is shut down, there is nothing to ask! So what's the point of being a member of the Saeima? What is the subject of the Request Commission, which systematically rejects everything? That's why they called - "Buffer Commission". Now these buffer commissions are no longer available. No Brigmann, no “buffet commission”, no old coalition. Currently, requests are supported if they are on the subject. Mr. Zarins, you have to go and buy the champagne today and rejoice as much as you can, because your requests will really be dealt with! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Lochmele-Lunova: “You all have to buy the champagne!” ) Your requests will be dealt with and you will be able to identify with these requests the ministers responsible not only, let us accept, on your favorite subject, but also on many other topics for Members. This is the objective, for which it is intended at all. It was not meant that any request would automatically be rejected for the commission chairman, Brigmanis, to receive an allowance of EUR 800 or to receive a supplement of EUR 350 as a member of the Riga Committee. And nothing was supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “What are you talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, You would have gone to the Request Commission once!” ) That is the case. That's it! Didn't you be a deputy? Didn't you be a deputy?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Riena: “Yes, I was a deputy!” ) Well, then... Come on, man! So... It's from the old coalition, but that's okay. Congratulations! Please support this request... the next request. And if there are any questions, please, the Request Commission! You will be told everything kindly - what and how. Please support this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U43	The name of Member Linda Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U44	Artuss Neimins has already outlined a little, and I want to keep going. We have promised a new policy, and we will bring it. Step by step, slowly, but already. And today, I would like to thank really all the Members of the Commission on Petitions who supported two of the two requests received by the Commission yesterday. So not just one, but two. And not only to support or show that you can also support them differently, but really support them in their essence. As you are all well aware, the requests made by Members for many years were rejected because it was not necessary to vote as they thought, but to vote as the Coalition Cooperation Council had decided - to support or not. If requests came from the opposition, they were automatically simply rejected. And to those who don't know, 12. During the parliamentary term, 20 requests, which included 218 issues, were considered within the framework of the OIC and no one was supported. I believe that all these requests were made by Mr Zarins and the Members of the Group SASKAN. But now, behold, that day has come. This day has arrived 13. In the Saeima, when the Request Commission has supported the request made by Ivars Zarins and other Members of the Group SASKARIS. BETTER demand is supported! Right? And nothing has happened! The family roof has not been demolished, the red lines are still where they have been, and the request has been examined in essence. There are a lot of questions in relation to the OIC, on which not only I, but also the general public, would like to hear concrete answers, not around and around, but not simply to write down, which gives the feeling that no one at national level will be able to solve the OIC problem. I will give you just one example. Information has been given in public space about huge litigation in the event of the end of generous and illegal support, which could result in Latvia losing hundreds of millions of euros. These calculations are just an indication, as the Ministry of Economics has failed to do so. In the same way as the Ministry of Economic Affairs did not carry out any questionnaires or calculations for possible proceedings which could be followed by producers who pay these abnormally high invoices and for whom these duties have been imposed. And because of these, too, producers may leave Latvia. I have heard such a version that it makes no sense to ask these questions to the outgoing government, because it goes. But I think it makes sense. I do not, of course, hope for the sin of the outgoing government on this issue, but we would have deserved a small account to know what the old government is going to leave to the new government. I sincerely call on Members to support this and also the next demand, but now we are talking about this, giving a clear signal not only to the outgoing government, but also to the next government that the OIC issue will be one of the cornerstones of the next government and perhaps also of this parliamentary term. I call on Members to support this request, thus giving the public a clear signal that Parliament represents and defends the interests of the people of Latvia and not one narrow group of people. I call on Members to support this request because the people of Latvia deserve a comprehensive assessment of the legality of the subsidised electricity support system. And this assessment has not yet been carried out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U45	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U46	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I will call for this request to be supported. But I would like to say a few words. When the major economic crisis began in 2009, business organisations were invited and went to the parliament and to the government of that time. There was a discussion about what we can do, how we can help Latvian industry not to disappear, so that it does not die.... not only companies, but the sectors that could be supported. Every proposal was against us by an army of officials from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, who said: "Well, no, you can't! You know. This is state aid. This is, by definition, prohibited in the European Union. Any State aid is prohibited if it is not agreed with the European Commission. Harmonisation is long, long-lasting. And it will probably not be supported." We said: "Maybe this is the time when, looking at the European Union's other Member States, we could copy the same Germany that pushed regulations and rescued its Mercedes, Audi and other car companies? Perhaps we are starting to provide support and to coordinate with the Commission later?" They said: "No, you know, it's a mantra, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union! Articles 106, 107 and 108 provide that any State aid may only be granted once the main coordination from the European Commission has been obtained.’ That was what everyone told us. And at the same time - at the same time! - On the other door... four billion were decided - uncoordinated state aid... from people, from companies... To further destroy the competitiveness of our economy in times of crisis, which already suffered... is excreted in humans. It is the Republic of Latvia's largest economic crime ever, amounting to four billion. Ten years planned, implemented and still covered, performed in an organized group. Part of this group is here today, too, in the Chamber. I think it's only normal that we look at the Saeima... finally, the new term would hear the legal basis from the Ministry of Economics and finally read the document, 10 pages long, which has been at the disposal of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry for a year. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U47	Mr. Gobzem, are you going to have six minutes? Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U48	Ladies and gentlemen! The OIC issue is something that some people here, in the hall, existing, including Arvil Asheraden, did not want to solve. Because if a person wants to solve a problem, he is able to solve any problem and is able to do it quickly, rather than avoiding requests, as happened during the entire term of the previous parliamentary term. We are in danger that the country will have to deal with the OIC beneficiaries and that it will cost the country heavy money. Then I have to say, as a public official, that I am better judged by OIC beneficiaries than by producers and people, by households that have suffered from OICs over the years. I believe that it is not normal that a few dozens, perhaps hundreds, of the chosen ones, are not coordinated within the framework of State aid... for nothing also earns profit in a situation where a person owns a solar panel purchased on the roof of the house and produces green energy himself. But he has to pay the OIC to those few dozens or hundreds of chosen ones who are covered! However, this coverup will come to an end. This will come to an end because the Request Commission will in future also support the proposals submitted by the INTERPRETATION, as in this case this is in the interest of our entire society. This is in the interest of all our producers. It's in the interests of every family, every household. And it will no longer be in the interest of these few dozens or hundreds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U49	Name... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “Ivar!” ) Mr. Zarins, will you have three minutes? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zariņš: “No!” ) Slightly. Colleagues, this means we will vote after a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, We collected gifts at the Saeima for baby hospitals for small patients. Now I invite everyone to meet outside the Saeima, and then there will be a Christmas workshop - together with the painted gingerbread hearts we will send the gifts collected by the Saeima. The name of Member Inese Voika.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U50	Dear members of the Baltic Sub-Commission. 16 in total... We must meet for our first meeting. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I invite you to the premises of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Let's elect a president and a secretary... and then at the tree. Let's start in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U51	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U52	Colleagues! I've got... one, two, three, four... Seven... Proposal by seven members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to convene an extraordinary sitting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission at the parliamentary sitting on 20 December. Given that Juris Pūce has submitted quite a number of proposals and that the Commission has to process them, and that there are Members who have planned all kinds of things now at 10:30, I will announce the start of the extraordinary meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U53	Thank you, Mr Bondar. So... there will be a break until 11 a.m. Name to Marija Golubeva, member of the Saeima Secretary, for the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U54	Members Jānis Dombrava and Ivan Klementyev have not registered.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U55	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U56	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting after the break! On the agenda - Member Ivars Zariņa, Lubova Švekova, Valeria Agešina, Regina Lochmeles-Lunova, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Krišana, Arthur Rubika, Inga Goldberga, Edgars Kucina and Ivana Ribakova's request to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvils Aseraden, about the state aid scheme implemented by the Ministry of Economics and the legality and legality of the action of the Ministry of Economics. We are continuing the debate after a break. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U57	Hello, colleagues! Since several aspects of why this request has been made have already been addressed in the debate, I would like to emphasise indeed one aspect: this request is not to round up the Economic Minister for the Great Call. This was not the purpose of this request. The purpose of this request was to demonstrate the need to carry out an assessment of the legality of the subsidised electricity support scheme, a comprehensive assessment of the legality of the existing system. During the examination of this request, we have demonstrated that there are fundamental problems with the evaluation of the rule of law. Real, serious problems. In order to prove this, we took certain aspects of this scheme through which we showed that there was a lack of such an objective, comprehensive evaluation of the rule of law. One of the things was TEC-2. To understand the context, I will give you a small excursion before we start talking about the demand itself. As has already been said here, State aid, being within the European Union, must first be coordinated as a Member State, so that it can be provided. If it is provided without coordination with the European Commission, such aid will be illegal under European Union law. This was confirmed by the Ministry of Finance and confirmed by the Ministry of Economics: aid granted without coordination with the European Commission is illegal. The next step. If we are talking about this aid system, the European Commission has also pointed out this infringement in its decision to examine and harmonise the aid system - that the aid has been granted without harmonisation. Article 108 has therefore been infringed. And so this aid, as follows from European Union law, has been illegal until it has been harmonised. We took two specific things. One is TEC-2, where this aid is still not harmonised, because the European Commission's decision harmonising this scheme... Paragraph 96 makes it clear that the aid for TEC-2 is not compatible with this Decision. This means that it is still being implemented, being uncoordinated. So it's still illegal. We asked the Ministry of Economics: “Well tell us the rule of law on which you are entitled to provide this illegal aid!” The Ministry of Economy could not name it. They began to “work out” with quite other things. They started to ‘work out’ with a story about the coherence of support. So what is important to understand? The European Commission, when assessing aid, looks at three aspects: the existence of aid, the legality of aid and the coherence of aid. These are three different things. And they are very clearly defined. The legal provisions of the European Union state very clearly what happens then if the aid has been unlawful but is subsequently harmonised. Indeed, it has been said there that such aid can be coordinated at a later stage. And that's Latvia's case! And it is very good that Latvia has succeeded in bringing this into line and thus avoiding that the European Commission is addressing us. Because what does it mean to harmonise aid? What does the European Commission look at? It does not look at all this aid as a whole; it does not look at certain, specific aspects of it. That is, whether this aid discriminates against other Member States of the European Union, because it is a fundamental principle. Otherwise, each Member State would try in some way to cut the buttons from another Member State, helping its own businessmen. And that is why it is so fundamental that it cannot be done until it is agreed. And this fundamental principle is therefore put in place: until it is agreed, it is illegal. But it can later be reconciled. The fact that it has been declared compatible does not remove the effects of this unlawful aid. And we also managed to get the Ministry of Finance to recognise it. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance recognised that in such a case, it is true that the third parties who have suffered from this illegal support can apply to the Latvian court. Colleagues! Do you understand what the situation is threatening by continuing such illegal aid? Hundred hundreds of millions... the legal proceedings. Not from the OIC recipients, but from the OIC payers. And the question is, where will this money come from then? This is therefore one of the contexts, one of the aspects why such an assessment of the rule of law would be so important. Because of the fact that the Ministry of Economics, of those who have created and covered this scheme for years, comes with completely different interpretations. They have also tried to tell us that there is such an assessment of the rule of law. All right! If that is the case, we asked him to submit it. You know what the Ministry of Economics said? They didn't even submit anything. Then we went to the demand. In general, nothing was answered. The Commission subsequently managed to force them to submit their replies. These replies did not contain any legal assessment. There were some specific contextual assessments. Why is there no comprehensive legal assessment? See what the situation is... If you do not have a comprehensive legal assessment, then you can extract from context some separate legal provision, some separate principle and manipulate it by trying to say that everything is right. This was done by the Ministry of Economics in relation to the aid for TEC-2. When asked what legal provisions they were prepared for... are entitled to provide this support, they said on the basis of Section 28.1 of the Electricity Market Act. Sorry, it sounds just funny and ironic! Because Latvia... Member States are not entitled by their decision to determine what they can or cannot do in respect of the aid. And later it was also recognised by the Ministry of Economics itself. They said: this is an exclusive competence of the European Commission. If it is an exclusive competence of the European Commission, then tell me what basis we could have... they can rely on this Section 28.1 of the Electricity Market Act, which we have adopted... what has been adopted by the Member State, not by the European Commission? And this way of manipulating, playing and saying, yes, but we'll harmonise it later... if the European Commission had said that it was... that we will not harmonise it, so it would have pointed it out to us and prohibited it. Yes, it would be if the European Commission could see that this aid would perhaps be declared incompatible. Uncoordinated... This means that if they see that they will not be able to prevent the consequences of discrimination against other Member States. The fact that the aid has been illegal... But if they don't discriminate later, they don't worry. Then the European Commission does not turn against the Member State. And that's the big nuance that's been wreathed all the time, and it tried to get rid of it. So, by mixing two different things: illegal aid and the legality of aid, illegality and compatibility of aid. It was also very interesting... One of the points according to paragraph 52 of the transitional provisions of the Electricity Market Act... Provides... a whole number of operators received aid which was not compatible and which is not covered by this Decision. This Decision... Point 69 makes clear what the aid is covered by. Those businessmen who receive millions each year... And look who they are for businessmen! You're... They're not in this decision. The Minister for Economics said: you know, we did not have to harmonise this support. The European Commission has said that there is no need to harmonise this. Then we asked him: present the documents where we can see it. No such documents were submitted. We also requested information on the basis of which the European Commission has taken such a decision. No such information was submitted. Another interesting aspect of this request was the work done by the legendary OIC Working Group. A very simple question. If you were really attached and wanted to deal with the OIC, then, of course, one of the most important things to do is to carry out a comprehensive evaluation of the existing systems, of the current situation's rule of law. This is why the OIC Working Group was not given this task. From the outset, the respondents tried to state that they had already carried out this assessment. After they were asked to submit it... Where is it? When we wanted to get to know it, it turned out that it was not done because the task force was simply not given that task. Then we asked why it was not given? Because it would normally have been... This could not be answered by the Ministry of Economy. This resulted in their announcement: it needs to be asked by the Prime Minister, and there will be a further demand for it. We hope that perhaps we will find out at the time of this request why the rule of law assessment has not been carried out? How do I see why this was not done? Because without an evaluation of the rule of law, without drawing everything into the light and without understanding what is actually happening and who has some basis for the rule of law, which is legal, which is not legal, without separating the ash from the grain, we can successfully manipulate and present the truth in the way we benefit... what we have heard. And don't do it, don't fight with afero, but actually build up its cover. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this request to be supported. The next step, which should be taken to support this demand, is that the Saeima should instruct the government to make such a comprehensive assessment of the legality of the existing subsidised electricity support scheme, so that we can get a clear road map - where we are, what we can do, what we cannot do and what the consequences can be. Otherwise, what is being done - pulls out of context some separate piece, says: now you see... As an example, manipulation... extortion one, puts a completely absurd alternative, says: either we're removing everything now... and rightly we really analyze and say that just like that... Just demolish the stop screen and stop now... Indeed, these are major litigation risks, and this cannot be done in this way. They say: if we cannot do this, then we can do almost nothing and offer some totally deplorable solutions that do not change anything at all; in fact, we are even more drawn along this circle. If we had this whole road map, we would certainly see many other solutions, many other instruments... what could be done with the OIC sphere. Therefore, colleagues, today I call on you to support this request and then take the next step. We can put this system in order. I say this to you as a man who has worked on these matters for many years. And I see that... OIC Aperture... The burden of OICs can be reduced quickly and substantially and in a legal manner already in the near future. I call for support for the request. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U58	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U59	Thank you, dear colleagues, for the discussions. And especially I would like to thank Mr. Zarins, who really makes sense... discussed demand as such, not history. But certainly I must also say that using this opportunity I want to thank Ivar for his... Now we count: the Ministry has answered a total of 506 questions. So, that's very respectful! That's the amount of encyclopedic work! He has really helped with this problem to work and move forward. Mrs. Liepaja, I would like to say that if you really wanted to act constructively, then... Mr. Zarins has just said something that has already been said in the commission... also what I said - that it is right if the Saeima really instructs the government - probably the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance - to make such an assessment. Just need to really agree what's in there... or - in what way this is happening, or by a third party or government. And the fact that... Mr. Zarins would also say, “These are the things I trust.” For what the government or the Ministry of Economics, or the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Justice so far claims... He says, “I don’t believe this.” Right? Okay. Then we agree what that is, and then we are made clear. And normal, it would be right for the commission to come with such a proposal at the Saeima... or ask you to do it or ask - no matter... The form may be agreed upon. But surely that can be done. Yeah. In conclusion, I just want to say that it is a pity that the Shrubs... That's, Mrs. Liepiņa, let me... Mr Juncker devoted his full session of the commission to tell us how he saw the world but did not allow me to tell you what the government had prepared... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa’s intermediate call.) Or the Ministry of Economics has prepared a report in order to opt out of the OIC. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) I definitely want to say that... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Liepiņa: “You have sent volumes to 700 pages!” ) No, Mrs. Liepiņa, you did not allow me to do this. And I understand that it is important for you to restore historical justice. Thank you, you did it. It's okay. But I mean, it's... The government is currently prepared on the basis of a task force report... A report has been submitted. The government has coordinated it with all parties. And, as far as possible, this government will also move forward if it is able to opt out of the OIC system... And I've quite clearly said that the OIC has to be abandoned. This is the programme developed. And in any case, the result will also be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U60	I closed the debate. Colleagues, I would like to remind you that the intercontinents are possible during the sitting. These are permitted by the Saeima order roll. But talking from the hall to the speaker in the platform is not allowed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “These are the intersaxes!” ) The debate is therefore closed. On behalf of the Commission, Mrs. Liepiņa, do you have anything to add? None. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Lubova Švekova, Valeria Agešina, Regina Lochmeles-Loņova, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Krišana, Arthur Rubika, Inga Goldberga, Edgars Kucina and Ivana Ribakova's request to the Minister of Economics Arvils Aseraden "On the legality and legality of State aid schemes for subsidised electricity implemented by the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -59, for -23, for -12. (Applause) The request is accepted. On the agenda - request of Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Valeria Agešina, Edgars Kucina, Vital Orlova, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Adamsons, Vladimir Nikonovs and Ivan Klementjev to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis "On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 April 2018 No. 172 the task assigned to the task set out in the working group on the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity procurement. On behalf of the Commission - Member Linda Liepiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U61	Colleagues! The Commission also examined the request No. 2 submitted by Members of the Saeima Ivars Zariņš, Jānis Krišāns, Valery Agešins, Edgars Kucins, Vitalijs Orlovs, Jānis Tutins, Arturs Rubiks, Jānis Ādamsons, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Ivans Klementjevs. And this request was made to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 April 2018 No. 172 the task assigned to the task set out in the working group on the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity procurement. Ivars Zarins has already mentioned this task in his speech. In the first request, we asked the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Asheraden, about the tasks that had been set up for the working group - why was there not a comprehensive legal assessment? Mr Asheraden replied that this should be asked to Mr Kučinski. Mr Zariņš with request No. 2 was also glad to do so - Mr Kučinska asked this question, but Mr Kučinska chose to refer the question to Mr Asheraden. And at the Commission's sitting we were in such a bad situation that Mr Asheraden had asked Mr Kučinski to ask this question at the previous sitting, but Mr Kučinski referred it again to Mr Asheraden. I don't know if Mr Asheraden could answer a question he couldn't answer in advance and to which he asked Mr Kučinski to answer, so I ask... The Commission therefore also voted in favour of this request and decided to support it precisely for this reason. ‘ Eight votes in favour, two votes against and three members abstained. One Member did not vote. Overall, this request was found to be acceptable. Consequently, I also call on the Members of the Saeima to acknowledge this request and then ask Mr Kučinskis because I would like to hear this response... why the task was not set to evaluate... legal... How did we have here?... The rule of law of the comprehensively subsidised electricity support system. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U62	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U63	The OIC is 10 years old. And then on one nice day, one commercial TV that I would not call now, made a story about the existence of such an OIC. The public was in a moderate shock, seeing something like that, and at last this issue was shown to the public's eyes. I think that was done by TV3 journalists in their programme. Then began a lot of requests, too, from the Saeima... that, of course... That nothing, no one goes on... wasn't driven further because it was - it was! - This buffer commission, but the idea is what? That Mr. Asheraden... it meets the Ministry of Economic Affairs... I will talk more about the Ministry of Economics than about Mr Asheraden personally... then a working group was set up in the Cabinet. The working group was composed of... If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Schmidt will certainly be able to fix me if I don't give the wrong figure... I think it's 40 people. As far as I understand, the outsourcing providers were also involved in the Cabinet Working Group to survey these fictitious power plants... and not so fictitious... Or maybe legitimate. This working group then worked for a period of three months and came to the conclusion that there was an opinion. That's cool! Yeah, well, there's an opinion. But who is it? There it is... It's not long, it's short, it's black, it's white... Well, it is. In principle, as TV3 showed before, it was much more and clearer there. Then Mr. Zarins opened his computer and started writing requests. And it was right. Now... This request, colleagues, is that... I am also interested in what was then the task of the working groups, the 40 people. I wonder if it was also paid for or outsourced. And about the law... Members of the Saeima need to be aware of the task assigned to them in this request. I think that this troupe should not go scrupulously into every part of the OIC and trench this issue. This must be done by the Request Commission when the people called in question come. The head of the Cabinet is Māris Kučinskis, and Māris Kučinskis also gave a task to this working group. Mr Asheraden was also present in this working group. Men, come and just answer and say! Of course, there is still a small default fact. The default fact is that... In principle, these two requests are addressed to one ministry, right? But if every week or every other day the Request Commission for all 13 ministries will have requests... Well, as a result, it can be that the technical government can also be fired. Then the Minister is withdrawn. Do you understand? So you have to understand the proportionality here, too... on requests: this is on the subject, this is necessary, this has not been answered. The responses were requested 38 times and 38 times have been rejected. This time, it will not be rejected. This time, Minister, you will have to respond. But we, Members, must also understand this default regime... On the demand commission, however, the great strength... in this case, understanding also how you can develop, say, at the end of January... Take Mr. Kučinskis alone (Laughs) at 13 empty chairs... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant: “Very funny!” ) Not funny. That's why I'm saying we need to think about it. But we shouldn't be scared, Mr. Planty! You don't have to scare! ( Internouncing call.) So... No one's talking to you, like me... Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U64	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U65	Yes, I also call on the Saeima to support this request. And a little comment. You have to be fair! I couldn't blame Mr. Kučinski for having put in place OIC that he would be in this organized group, which I spoke about before the break. No, no! But did Maris Kučinskis, during his government, do everything to stop, prevent, resolve, give a legal assessment that would give the tools to put an end to this case? The answer, too, is no. I can understand that there was a government, a government stability, a coalition, a coalition treaty. The members of the Group shall be at the coalition table. But now it's all gone: there's no coalition treaty, there's no coalition. There is still a technical government. And I very much hope from the Prime Minister to hear how it really was. Well, why is it that it failed. And now, I think, there's all the basis for it because... I believe that the Minister for Economics is, in a way, in the people's language, "put up" the Prime Minister. He claims that he did not have the task of assessing the rule of law. As a result, the Prime Minister would have to obtain the task from the Prime Minister. The Aeolus Group also claimed that the Commission should have taken into account the fact that the Aeolus Group's export prices to the Union were lower than the export prices to the Union during the investigation period. The assessment of the legality was an absolutely logical act, the first one before anyone else. So I really hope that the Prime Minister will come and tell us how it was actually there and who is actually responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U66	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U67	The absence of a government has led to a situation in which parliaments that, at last, we see what true democracy is. Finally, we cannot stick to coalition agreements, as my colleague Didzis Schmidt pointed out, and finally we must start to take decisions, and we are finally beginning to take decisions in the interests of all of our societies, our people, our producers, our businessmen, our citizens. And this demand will not be an exception. No response was given in the previous parliamentary term. Finally, we will find out these answers if the gentlemen concerned, the officials concerned, are forced to respond. What I want to say today on the evaluation of the OIC and the rule of law... I think that this Parliament is absolutely clear, and it has also been absolutely clear before that illegal state aid is illegal. I think the answer is clear to us today. The question is worth asking is: why have we not wanted this answer to be expressed loudly and precisely from this troupe? I therefore ask for support for the proposal and ask Mrs Kučinski to provide all the answers requested.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U68	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U69	Reflecting on the discussion. If we're talking about a task force... I think there were 26 people there. And the task of the task force was very simple. Three things. Firstly, to carry out an economic assessment of this system - what has been its impact on the economy, then next - to find a solution for ending the OIC as a consumer payment and, thirdly, to find a solution for it all to continue. In other words, to tell what was the task of the task force... The task of the task force was not to end the OIC, but to find a solution to present it in another sauce so that it could not be called OIC, but could continue under other things. In particular, the task force also carried out these tasks. It found a solution for how this area could continue, i.e. by concealing the OIC’s electricity payment on green certificates, and by concealing the OIC’s capacity payment on the transmission tariff. In future, the OIC will no longer exist, and it has given politicians the opportunity to come up before the elections and to say to all the people that we have found a solution to the end of the OIC. It will no longer exist in three years. Indeed, it will no longer be, but it will simply be under other charges. The task of the Task Force was fulfilled. That is why it was this question: why did you, the working group, not want to make an assessment of the rule of law? As has rightly been said, in the first request we did not get this answer, we replied that this should be requested by the Prime Minister. That is why we made a request to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has never answered us. Why do I, colleagues, support this request and call for it to be supported? For two things, we should do it. First of all, this is the combination of what you have clearly seen as a way of making officials, carrying out irresponsibly. So one says, ask him, the other says, no, ask him. And he says I won't answer! So what happens? If we allow such a scheme, it will always be implemented in this way... When one says, I don't know, ask him. The other one will say, but I won't answer, ask him himself! And the Saeima won't get an answer. Secondly, why? Because, after all, this attitude allows us to discredit Latvia as a democratic republic. We allow the Constitution to be ignored. Because according to the Constitution, the executive power is responsible, it is accountable for its activities to the legislators, the leaders of the people. They have done so now and have not done so. And if we allow it to be normal to allow it to be done, then it will still be done. Therefore, my fellow Members, for these two reasons, I call for support for this request, for the Constitution to be operational... and to be an performer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U70	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added or explained on behalf of the commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for a Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Valeria Agešina, Edgars Kucina, Vital Orlova, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Adamsons, Vladimir Nikonovs and Ivan Klementyev's request to the Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis "On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 April 2018 No. 172 the task set out in the task set out in the working group on the abolition of the system of compulsory electricity procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -56, for -27, for -11. The request is accepted. Changes tabled to the agenda of the Bureau meeting Members Latkovskis, Adamovičs, Kalniņš, Judins and Asheraden are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Election of the President”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - proposals for the continuation of the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Inga Goldberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U71	Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has assessed and proposes to continue 13. Advise the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”. The major amendments are as follows: the law is supplemented with three new chapters, which set out the procedure by which administrative territories may be merged, as well as the beginning of activities of the new administrative territory municipality and the transition of the rights and obligations of the combined municipalities. Please support the continuation of the examination of the draft law 13. In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U72	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U73	Deadline for the second reading of the proposals - 1 May 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U74	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 May 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Law on referendums of local governments” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Uldis Budrikis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U75	Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Law on referendums of local governments” remains with us from 12. The Saeima. The purpose of the future law is to promote the participation of local authorities in local decision-making. The law defines the issues on which local referendums can be initiated and organised, determines the source of their funding as well as how to implement it. The Commission is unanimously in favour of directing the draft law. I call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U76	Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Law on referendums of local governments” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U77	1 May
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U78	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 May 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. The examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of a Member of the City Council and a Regional Council of the Republic of Lithuania” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U79	Hello, colleagues! The National Administration and Municipal Commission reviewed the previous draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendment to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” and supported its examination as well 13. In the family. This draft law contributes to the implementation of the State Language Law, and the responsibility of candidates and applicants of lists of Members will also be promoted. On the basis of Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission asks 13. Continue examination of the bill in the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U80	Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The committee of the State Administration and the municipality was responsible in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U81	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U82	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 February 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U83	Hello, colleagues! The Commission decided to continue its work on the draft law on amendments to the State Audit Office Law. This draft law 12. The Saeima developed a Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. In essence, it provides for minor improvements in the activities of the State Audit Office, but the most important thing is to extend its powers by giving the State Audit Office the opportunity to punish violations of the law. I invite you to support the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U84	Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The committee of the State Administration and the municipality was responsible in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U85	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U86	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of wastage of Financial Resources and Property of Public Person”. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U87	This draft law is linked to the previous draft law and I also call on this one to support the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U88	Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Waste of Financial Resources and Property of a Public Person”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The committee of the State Administration and the municipality was responsible in the Saeima. Whether Members have objections to 13 in the same way. Will it be the responsibility of the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U89	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U90	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Social and Labour Affairs Commission proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U91	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, At its meeting, the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima decided to continue the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”. In the previous term, the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry responsible, supplemented the restrictions on the placing on the market of tobacco products, herbal smoking products, electronic cigarettes and filling vials, supplemented the ban on placing on the packaging of any type of smoking product elements that promote smoking and promote consumption of these products, with a false impact on health. The draft law also provides for a ban on the production and placing on the market of sweets, snacks, toys and other items that are appealing to minors, reminding them visually of cigarettes, as well as tobacco products placed at retail outlets, plant smoking products, electronic smoking devices, filling tanks and their brands in such a way that the buyer can see them. The Commission is asking for a further look at this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U92	Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for Social and Labour Affairs Commission. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U93	The Commission is awaiting your proposals for second reading by 1 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U94	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Social and Labour Affairs Commission proposes to continue 12. Draft law “Amendments to Labour Law” submitted to the Saeima (No. 149/Lp13). On behalf of the Commission, Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U95	Hello, colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Labour Law” provides to supplement the regulation included in Article 74 of the Labour Law by providing that the employers’ expenses incurred by paying compensation to the employees for the presence of the employee – the landguard – in collective training of the landguards up to five working days within the framework of the calendar year, the National Armed Forces shall compensate for the amount and procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers. These amendments also oblige employers to pay remuneration to these workers who participate in the training of landguards, as well as to maintain their jobs. At the meeting of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs on 6 December, Members listened to the ministries responsible, as well as the social partners, who acknowledged that the examination of this draft law should be continued, as these amendments balance the interests of the employer and the state. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for support for the continuation of this draft law. 13 In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U96	Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to Labour Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Social and Labour Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U97	Please set the deadline for the submission of proposals on 7 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U98	January 7, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U100	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 7 January 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. The examination of the draft law “Law on State Service” submitted to the Saeima. Inese Ikstena, Member of the European Parliament, has applied for a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U101	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In fact, the commission decided not to continue this... Do not continue. You said, "Continue".
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U102	So the commission has decided not to go on... do not take over this draft law and do not continue to consider it 13. In the family.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U103	I will give you the reasons why. Because the draft law is driven by the State Chancellery, which itself sees no reason to continue this draft law. And the remark is: if you keep going, you should redesign it. The new law would, in essence, replace the existing civil service law, and there is no significant point in replacing it. This draft law is, in fact, contrary to the objectives that we have set: to reduce public administration, make it effective, modern and innovative. And I would like to add that I would also like to see responsible and wise public administration, but with this law, the number of public administration employees is growing rapidly, doubling or tripled, and the Law on Public Service would regulate this large number of public administration employees, which would also include librarians and social workers. On the other hand, the Labour Act would apply to all the others. Thus adopting such an essential law for such a large proportion of employees without impact assessment... This law was prepared very unthinkablely. I could even say that this is the brother of our public administration that we have received in our work, in our commission, and I think that we, many commissions, are receiving in the same way poorly prepared draft laws that are put on the urgency of additives. If you're talking about the whole investment... This draft law has been prepared for three to four years. It is a muzzle like a hot poplar, and that is the result that no one really likes and that no one wants to support. The law is also very expensive. Imagine the human days we're spending... and what those legal offices and the Ministry of Justice... What everyone is going on... and how much it requires financial and time resources. That is why my call on the new government, when it comes to it, to pay great, increased attention to how public administration works and how effective it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U104	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U105	Hello, dear colleagues! I'll be shorter. This draft law is to be rejected because it confuses two concepts. Public sector work paid for by tax and work in public administrations. The draft law does not answer any of these questions. That is first. Secondly, it also divides the public sector into two parts: one for the public administration, the other for the local authorities and the other for which the draft law does not apply. And thirdly. This bill was specifically, consistently, justified and, I would say, very aggressively joined the trade unions of the sectors and the Free Trade Union of Latvia, as well as the Employers' Confederation. Therefore, when examining this issue, the Commission unanimously decided to recommend that the Saeima reject this proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers and vote against that draft law for consideration by the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U106	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on State Service Law 13. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I Draft law has been rejected. According to the order of the Saeima... Mr. Ageshin, something you wanted to say about the procedure? You have already applied for the next one. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Hunting Law” submitted to the Saeima. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U107	Dear colleagues, I very much hope that the majority of colleagues present want to play an active role in the creation of a well-ordered regulatory system that is fair and, above all, understandable to people. This and a number of other items on the agenda for today's sitting are related to the codification of sector-specific administrative irregularities. These are very controversial issues - reclamation, decoding and their prospects... the proposal to waive the aggregation of all administrative offences into a single law, the liability for administrative offences being determined by sectoral laws. Analysis of the codification of the sectors of administrative offences leads to some reflection. First of all. It is difficult to accept the inclusion of administrative offences in a number of dozen sectoral laws because it is not certain that penalties will be proportionate and regulation will be understandable for both those applying them and ordinary people. Second round. The issue is very discussion: the flow of regulatory acts will decrease or increase, because there is no guarantee that sectoral laws will not be amended on several occasions in respect of administrative offences, as has been the case with the Latvian Administrative Violations Code so far. And thirdly. Several draft laws have still not been drawn up, several areas have not been identified. There are currently gaps and holes in the area of administrative irregularities. My position is not imperative, but I cannot rule out that it would be reasonable to maintain codification but - at another quality level - to form a specific part of the law... administrative responsibility... I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U108	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on Hunting Law 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -16, refrains - not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. I ask the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to set a deadline for the submission of proposals. Turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U109	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U110	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Commission of State Administration and Local Government propose to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” submitted to the Saeima. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Inese... But maybe you will speak on behalf of the commission... How is the committee rapporteur? No, no. So we are starting a debate. The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U111	Good afternoon! This time I wanted to draw attention to this draft law on which we are “for”. We have set a sufficiently long deadline for tabling proposals, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that this draft law, too, has not been prepared qualitatively and that a number of things that should really be substantially amended, are not at all amended. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” provides that it will be possible to declare the place of residence only in the land cadastre registered... in properties... in the living home... It will not be possible to declare in garages or warehouses. This, of course, makes the whole of this system of declaration difficult and makes it more bureaucratic. So I draw attention to it. What is the importance of declaration? It has meaning when it comes to the location and address of the mailbox, where a natural person can be contacted. Whether we are burdening this with additional conditions or not, I ask everyone to think carefully about it. However, the draft law does not contain anything for improvement in the electronic declaration system. We know very well that other parties from the edge also declare property without the consent of the owner... what knowers look at portal latvija.lv... but then go specially to write an application, spend your financial, time resources to declare out. There is no mention of this in the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U112	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U113	Dear colleagues, This bill is one of the most complex draft laws in the Commission's circulation, and the problem in itself is very difficult, because several things have been built on the principle of declaration, from the tax system to the electoral system. In this case, we are only deciding whether we are prepared to take on the tasks that the previous Saeima started and that are included in this draft law. The Commission's view is that this can and must be done. I call for support for the decision to continue the examination of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U114	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Declaration of Residence” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The committee of the State Administration and the municipality was responsible in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mr Sergey Dolgopolov on the deadline for submitting the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U115	I turned on a microphone too early. I just wanted to propose a deadline for the submission of proposals. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U116	Please name!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U117	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 May next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U118	No other proposals? The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 May 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Commission of State Administration and Local Government are asking to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” submitted to the Saeima. No Members have applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Administration of Housing Houses” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 19, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The committee of the State Administration and the municipality was responsible in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mr Sergey Dolgopolov - on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U119	During the debate in the Commission on this issue, we agreed that the deadline for the submission of proposals could be 4 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U120	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 4 January 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” submitted to the Saeima. No Members have applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. So please turn on... Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. The deadline for submitting proposals. Please turn on the microphone for Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U121	Yeah, thank you. The Commission has discussed this and decided that the best time limit for the submission of proposals is 1 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U122	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Ģerbonis Law” submitted to the Saeima. The Members in the debate do not want to. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the continuation of the examination of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Ģerbonis 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 17, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Asheraden - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U123	As in the previous case: the Commission has set 1 March of the following year as the deadline for submitting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U124	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Statistics Law” submitted to the Saeima. And the Commission of State Administration and Local Government also asks for further examination of the draft law 13. In the family. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Statistics” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, 16, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. The deadline for submitting proposals. Please turn on the microphone for Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U125	Similarly, the deadline for submitting proposals is 4 January next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U126	February 4, huh? Thank you. So January, huh? Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 4 January 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Review of the draft law on the Maritime Code submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the continuation of the examination of the draft law amending the Maritime Code 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U127	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U128	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fire and Fire” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fire Safety and Fire” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Whether Members have objections to 13 in the same way. Will it be a commission in the family? There is no objection. The deadline for submitting proposals. Please turn on the microphone for Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U129	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U130	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Review of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces” submitted to the Saeima. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 17, it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Juris Jušas - on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U131	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U132	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Review of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Military Service Law’ submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 17, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Enter the microphone for Juris Jušas - the deadline for submitting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U133	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U134	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law on budgetary and financial management submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? You don't want to have a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the continuation of the examination of the draft law on amending the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for the budget and financial (tax) commission. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U135	The deadline for submitting proposals is February 28 next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U136	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Do Members have reservations that this will also be the commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Juris Jušas - on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U137	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U138	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unity of Measurement”” submitted to the Saeima 13. In the family. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unity of Measurements” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 13. The Saeima will continue to examine this draft law. Responsible 12. The parliament included the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? And the objections? Are there any objections? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zariņš. The deadline for submitting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U139	We offer 1st of March next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U140	Forgive me, next year?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U141	1 March of the following year. It is immediately before 2 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U142	1 March. Very good. (Laughter) Detailed explanation. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 1 March 2019. Dear colleagues, Members Feldman, Muižniece, Šuplinska, Linkait, Gunna and others ask for a check on the presence of Members. On registration? By registration, huh? Thank you. Please call me! Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. Members' registration regime! Name to a member of the Saeima Secretary... (Laughter) Name of the Saeima Secretary. The results of the registration. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U143	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Not registered: Uldis Augulis... Oh, it's in the hall, thank you. Gundar Many... Not in the medicine. Jan Dombrava... Not in the medicine. Maria Golubeva... Not in the medicine. Ivan Clementyev... Not applicable. Dace Melbard? Big Smith... is in the hall, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U144	Thank you, colleagues. There is a quorum and we can continue the work of the sitting. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Children” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -73, against -17, refrains - not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members have reservations that this will also be the commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please enable the microphone member Artus Neimins in relation to the deadline for submitting the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U145	Yes, March 1. Mr Zarins, 1 March 2019, which is before 2 March 2019. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U146	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 1 March 2019. Turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman. Mr Feldman did not want to have a debate on the proposals? For what, please? On the procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Krišjānis Feldman. ( The Room Noise)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U147	... Once more. Yeah. Hello, dear colleagues! Perhaps a moment ago, there was a confusion about why I collected 10 signatures to register the presence of Members, and this was done. This is due to the fact that the video was documented as a vote by a SAID Member in place of another Member. I suspect that. Its suspicion will be checked. Video surveillance records from the Saeima Security Bureau will also be requested. Happily, everything is being filmed. And we'll find out what exactly is at this Saeima sitting... Right here 10 minutes ago... it happened several times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U148	Or another Member wants to... Is that so? No, no. Colleagues! I call for these issues to be clarified within the Committee on Mandate, Ethics and Application, where the right place for this debate would be. Thank you. Yeah, yeah, thank you. Yeah. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Technical Supervision of Dangerous Equipment” submitted to the Saeima. Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Technical Supervision of Dangerous Equipment” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? None. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U149	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U150	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. I hope that all Members will have received calendars next year and will know which date is before and after. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Lottery of Goods and Services” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Lottery in Goods and Services” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for the budget and financial (tax) commission. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Enter a microphone for Mārtiņš Bondars - on the deadline for submitting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U151	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U152	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendment to the law on the declaration of cash at the state border”. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Declaration of Cash at the State Border” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for the budget and financial (tax) commission. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U153	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U154	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 76, not by - 18, not by - no. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U155	As a deadline we offer the legendary 1st March of next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U156	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the out-of-court recovery of debts” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? I don't want to. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Out-of-court Recovery of Debts. 13 In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Janis Bordans - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U157	The deadline for submitting proposals will be one month. In particular, by 21 January of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U158	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 January 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendments to the Law “On Adjugation of Notices of Payments to Authorities by Commercial Enterprises Engaged in the Mining Industry or the Development of Primary Forests””. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Notices of Payments to Authorities by Commercial Enterprises Engaged in the Mining Industry or the Development of Primary Forests” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. The deadline for submitting proposals. Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U159	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U160	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. The examination of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Latvian State coat of arms”” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the State of Latvia” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -17, refrains - not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Janis Bordans - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U161	The deadline for submitting proposals is one month - until 21 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U162	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 January 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Discussion of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendments to Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale German Law”. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to Vidzeme, Latgale, Kurzeme and Zemgale German Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's 19, it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Arvil Asheraden - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U163	The Commission is asking for 1 March to be set as a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U164	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Conformity Assessment” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Conformity Assessment”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 75, 18, abstain - not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U165	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U166	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Streek Law” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Strikes”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Social and Labour Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Enable the microphone Member, Andris Skire, for the deadline for tabling proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U167	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U168	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Commercial Groups” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote on the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Information and Consultation of Employees of European Union-wide Commercial Companies and European Union-wide Commercial Groups” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -73, against -19, refrains - not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Social and Labour Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Enable the microphone Member, Andris Skire, for the deadline for tabling proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U169	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U170	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted by 1 March 2019. Dear colleagues, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please register the Members! Time for notifications. The name of the Member, Inese Ixten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U171	A great request to the Commission for Sustainable Development to meet in the premises of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to decide on sub-committees.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U172	Name to a member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U173	Not registered: Aldis Adamovičs... Yes, Ivet Benhen-Beeken... ( Intercretion: “Here is! ” ), Uldis Budriķis... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ), Boris Cilevič (Interface: “Here!” )... Yeah, Sergey Dolgopolov... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ), Jānis Dombrava, Gatis Eglitis, Krišjānis Feldmans (Interface: “Hea!” ), Aleksandr Kirštein, Ivan Klementyev, Jānis Krišāns... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ), Linda Liepiņa... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ), Tālis Linkait, Inese Lībiņa-Enere... ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ )...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U174	What's going on? ( Interface: “Something didn’t work. ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U175	Regina Lochmele-Lunova... Dace Melbārde... No, Anita Muižniece (interim: Yes!) ), Evija Papule, Ramona Petraviča, Juris Rancāns, Inguna Rībena, Andris Skride, Karina Sprūde, Mārtiņš Staķis (Interface: “Ir!” ), Juta Strīķe (Interface: “I!” ), Ilga Šuplinska (interface.) Lubov Shevcova... I'm sorry, Schvecova, Jānis Urbanovich... no, Inese Voika (interim: Yes!) ), Atis Zakaitistov (Interface.) , Ivars Zarins (intermediate call.) Evita Hall-Gross (interim: Yes!) ), Normund Gun... Normund Gun! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U176	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U177	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - transposition of draft laws from 12. The Saeima. Can we start the Saeima sitting? Thank you. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Accounting” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 51, against - 14, abstaining - not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Are Members opposed to being held accountable? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar. The deadline.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U178	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U179	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Ministers... Please change the tab! Yeah, thank you. The Cabinet proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Labour Protection Law” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law on labour protection law 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Social and Labour Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Are Members opposed to being held accountable? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone Member, Andris Skredem, on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U180	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U181	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote on the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Information Offices” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. ( Someone says something.) You're guilty! 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. The rapporteur for the Commission, Mr Ivars Zarins, is not in the Chamber. Please turn on the microphone to the Chair of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Mr Dūklav, on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U182	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U183	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. The draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Latvian National Anthem”” presented at the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Latvian State Anthem” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Janis Bordan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U184	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 21 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U185	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 January 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Draft law submitted to the Saeima (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) ‘Amendments to the Consumer Law’. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Consumer Rights” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone to Mr Dūklav, President of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. The deadline.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U186	The deadline is 1 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U187	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to Labour Law” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendment to Labour Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Social and Labour Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be the commission responsible. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone Member, Andris Skredem, on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U188	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U189	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Consideration of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on social services and social assistance 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Social and Labour Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone Member, Andris Skredem, on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U190	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U191	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Epidemiological Safety" 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 16, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Social and Labour Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Whether Members have objections to 13 in the same way. Will it be a commission in the family? Members shall not object. Please turn on the microphone Member, Andris Skredem, on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U192	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U193	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Service” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protected Services” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 17, no. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Whether Members have objections to that commission being held accountable. 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mr Dūklavs, on the deadline for tabling proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U194	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U195	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Commission of State Administration and Local Government propose to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Law” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mr Sergey Dolgopolov - on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U196	Proposals to be submitted by 4 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U197	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 4 January 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Veterinary Medicine Law” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote on the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, 16, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members opposed to being held accountable? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone Member Janis Dūklavs for the deadline for submitting the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U198	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U199	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 67, 18, abstain - not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U200	The Commission requests 1 March as a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U201	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Consideration of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendments to the Law “On Meetings, Processions and Pickets””. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Meetings, Steps and Pickets” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's not 19, it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members have reservations that this will also be the commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Member Artus Kaiminiņš - on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U202	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U203	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 64, it's against 19, it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U204	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U205	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on energy law 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mr. Dūklavs. Mr. Duklav.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U206	Thank you. 1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U207	Thank you. Date of submission of the proposals on 1 March 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Participation of Employees in Decision-making in a European Commercial Company, European Cooperative Society and In the case of Cross-border Mergers of Capital Companies” presented at the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the involvement of employees in decision-making in a European commercial company, European cooperative society and in the case of cross-border mergers of capital companies” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 19, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Social and Labour Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone Member, Andris Skredem, on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U208	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U209	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Monitoring of State Provess”” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Monitoring of State Provess””. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -16, refrains - not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U210	28 February of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U211	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Packaging Law” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on “Amendment to Packaging Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 18, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member... Mr. Zarins is in the hall... Ivars Zariņš - on the deadline for tabling proposals. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U212	1 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U213	Which year's March 1st? (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U214	1919 (Laughter) Thank you very much. (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U215	Mr. Zarin, where have you been? Please turn on the microphone for Mr Dūklavs, on the deadline for tabling proposals. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U216	Thank you. The microphone's on. 1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U217	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 1 March 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Management of end-of-life Vehicles” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the management of end-of-life vehicles” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 17, it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U218	The deadline for submitting proposals should be given if?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U219	The deadline for submitting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U220	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U221	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted by 1 March 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Animal Feed Chain” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on animal feed law 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U222	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U223	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Meliorisation” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Meliorisation” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members opposed to being held accountable? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U224	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U225	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 64, no, 17, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U226	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U227	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Goods and Services” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against - 17, it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U228	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U229	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” submitted to the Saeima 13. In the family. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U230	28 February 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U231	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted by 28 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 63, against - 15, abstaining. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The parliamentary commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was responsible for this. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Juris Jušas - on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U232	1 March of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U233	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”. Please call me! Let's vote on the bill... I'm sorry, colleagues! Members had applied for a debate. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U234	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! On 12 December, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission decided not to take over from 12. The Saeima. And the Ministry of Finance did not believe that it would be relevant and necessary. Therefore, honourable colleagues, my proposal is to vote 'no' to refer this draft law to the commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U235	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U236	My proposal is also to vote against this draft law! And my proposal is based on the fact that automatic execution of taxpayers is not the best option for introducing the rule of law. And I think if the purpose of the law is to impose a penalty... not 1.2 percent of taxpayers... No, I'm sorry, 2.1 percent of the taxpayers... But in addition to that, 97.9 percent... then, in my opinion, it is not a sufficient reason to push such an amendment to the law to be adopted. And more. I think, in fact, that the whole package of draft laws we have now voted for, carrying out administrative responsibilities re-... Decoding is illogical and is not really tended to take into account the interests of citizens. Because, in my opinion, it is not in the interests of citizens to receive penalties and not to hand over punishment mechanisms... 153... ministries. In my opinion, the redrafting of administrative responsibility makes the public authorities... the possible application of administrative responsibility for an instrument to further punish and lack of trust in the State or in the public administration, and do not achieve the objectives for which it is defined. Please vote against.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U237	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -4, against -63, refraining -12. Draft law has been rejected. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” submitted to the Saeima. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U238	This draft law is related to the previous one, and it is also related to the redrafting of administrative responsibility. A number of experts, including from the Public Prosecutor’s Office and the Bar Association, and also from lecturers, were heard by the Commission for Criminal Law Policy. The experts referred to were clear - redrafting administrative responsibility... introduced into the application of chaos. This does not include the interests of citizens. We have all promised that we will make the system more legal, clear and understandable. This legislative package does not achieve this. Please vote against!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U239	The name of the Member, Janis Bordan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U240	Dear colleagues, I would also like to call for a 'no' vote, but I wanted to mention that my previous speakers were wrong, because this draft law is not about decoding, redrafting. This draft law is related to the fact that the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service are thinking about how to combat the fact that no declarations, information materials and similar information are submitted to the SRS... and can be planted with it. Let's say, penalties... By lifting penalties for natural persons up to 500, 700 euros, legal persons for not submitting information material to the SRS - up to 7000 euros... In addition, there is also a mechanism whereby these penalties could be applied automatically over time, i.e. without information, simply by deducting the amount you need from your account. I speak here on behalf of the Legal Commission. The Legal Commission examined the draft law, and Members of the Legal Commission did not support it, pointing out that this penalty function could be considered over time if any means, perhaps electronic mechanisms, were introduced, how we could file declarations or lead the accounting into a direct, electronic documentation system, and taxes could be automatically removed by the SRS. Thus, punishment, reception of information material, and so... reducing the administrative burden. The administrative burden for Latvian entrepreneurs is now greater than in Lithuania and Estonia, apart from other European Union countries. Before such a move simply to increase penalties and to apply them automatically - this technology did not seem appropriate to the majority of the Legal Commission. I therefore call for the vote to be taken against this draft law and for it to be taken into account that it has not been supported by the Legal Commission either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U241	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” 13. In the family. Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 7, against - 68, refraining from - 6. Draft law has been rejected. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days””. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U242	Good afternoon! I am currently speaking on behalf of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. I ask you not to continue the progress of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and famous days””. We decided within the Commission not to proceed with this draft law, but this is again presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. Given that 12. During the Saeima, several draft laws were submitted, which aimed to supplement the law with the famous days of various professions and professions, such as Agronomy Day, Trader Day, Railways Day and so on... Maybe you remember, there was a proposal to change John to June 20 and 21... Thus, with the analytical service of the Saeima, with the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, we reached a common conclusion that the Cabinet of Ministers should develop and submit to the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs... If, in January of next year, that is, after a month, they will hand over a normal, arranged bill in which way in future holidays and memories in Latvia will be celebrated... i.e., calendar... and... or - unmarked... Because it is currently very chaotic. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this to be rejected and for the next draft law to be drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers in mid-January 2019. Thank you. Please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U243	Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 5, for - 53, for - 21. Draft law has been rejected. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Review of the draft law on personal data processed for law enforcement purposes submitted to the Saeima. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Janis Bordan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U244	Dear colleagues, I will now speak on behalf of both my own and that of the Legal Commission. The Legal Commission has not supported the transposition of this draft law. And the reason for this is as follows. The draft law has been drawn up in accordance with the Data Protection Directive, but the method by which it was developed... The comments of the Saeima Legal Bureau were, as they say, on many pages and with great objections... was as follows: The draft law is actually a translation from English, from the directive... Practically designed based on only one... to the mechanism of legal understanding, namely to the literal translation of legal norms, translated literally and not adapted to the legal system of Latvia. These are the main objections. I mean, what would happen in this case? The law... legal professionals could not understand how to apply it either. When we asked the Legal Commission, “What exactly should the investigators do in this case, and what are the terms and concepts that have been used?” , then could not really be explained by lawyers and document developers either. However, our principle is that laws must also be understood by a person who has not studied in the Faculty of Law, thus also by a professor from other fields of science. So I ask you not to support the bill. Draft law now... will be redesigned. The Ministry of Justice was asked to re-arrange it in order to be of adequate quality. And the directive will be implemented. I am convinced of that. And the rules of law will be respected. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U245	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law on personal data processed for law enforcement purposes 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 25, against - 47, refraining from - 11. Draft law has been rejected. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” submitted to the Saeima. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Evita Hall-Gross.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U246	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Presidium! I will speak on behalf of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The Social and Labour Commission received the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”, which we have inherited from 12. The Saeima. The draft law is ambitious and envisages major reforms as well as measures to improve the performance of the field. I will read in sequence the sections on which these reforms are concerned. So - to improve the situation in the provision of technical assistance by establishing a system in which individuals, by excluding a state-designated intermediary, could choose the most appropriate technical assistance for their performance by receiving appropriate compensation from the State. Establish a premium on family state benefit as an additional type of income that is not taken into account when assessing the customer’s material resources. Clarifying the delegation for persons with oncological diseases eligible for psychological rehabilitation. To specify the content of rehabilitation services and organisation of persons with functional disabilities. You see that there is indeed a very wide range of questions. The draft law provides for changes to be made to the technical assistance service administrators and for the introduction of a compensation mechanism for the purchase of technical assistance. It is this issue that has given rise to a wide range of resonances, both among service providers and service recipients. The proposed reform is not clear and therefore requires a broader debate on the content of the reform and on the structural changes to be made. And, you see, this is the reason why this draft law also delayed the progress of 12. In the family. Last week, when discussing this issue, the Commission decided not to refer the draft law to further consideration 13. In the Saeima, and the Commission commits to prepare another draft law, which will include amendments, the further progress of which is needed in the near future, leaving contentious issues for further discussions and evaluation. Otherwise, moving this draft law for further consideration will unduly delay changes relating to the receipt of social assistance services, and then these discussions may not be long enough. Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for no further consideration of this draft law to be given. 13 In the family. I call for a 'no' vote in order for work to move forward more quickly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U247	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance". In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 15, for - 61, for - 8. Draft law has been rejected. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Legal Commission propose to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” submitted to the Saeima. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U248	Dear colleagues, Today we have a like 12. The market for the Saeima's hoards. We take something as valid, we throw something out, and this draft law, which is the accompanying bill, one of the accompanying laws for the rental of Living Spaces, four draft laws... I will ask you to reject it. This is a poor quality draft in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and this draft law, together with those accompanying it, must be rejected, so I call for this and all the other draft laws in the package to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U249	Thank you. In the debate Members have no longer applied for... The name of the Member, Janis Bordan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U250	Yeah, I'm sorry! We're a little confused... So it's the rapporteur. I am not the rapporteur on this matter, but as President of the Legal Commission, I would like to inform colleagues that the Commission has supported this draft law. The Commission has supported this. And the bill has been drafted. We call for a longer deadline for the submission of proposals. Then I'll tell you what it will be. And if there is someone else who wants to clarify - please! As every draft law, it can be improved, but we considered it to be necessary to take over and work on it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U251	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Whether Members have objections to 13 in the same way. Will the Legal Commission be in charge of the Saeima? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Janis Bordans - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U252	Please set a deadline of 15 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U253	15?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U254	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U255	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 15, 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers and also the Legal Commission are proposing to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” submitted to the Saeima. Are Members willing to debate? Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Notary Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Whether Members have objections to 13 in the same way. Will it be a commission in the family? Please turn on the microphone for Janis Bordans - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U256	The deadline for submitting proposals is now 15 March. To be honest, the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has requested that before 1 May... requested such a time limit. I don't know if we're worth... because this draft law is related to the previous one and we set 15 March. Is it possible to change the deadline? Probably not.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U257	It's a commission decision, is it?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U259	Do Members have other proposals? Can we vote in favour of the proposal? ( Internouncing call.) Are there any other proposals for Members? There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 15 March 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, propose to continue 12. Consideration of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment””. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Whether Members have objections to 13 in the same way. Will it be a commission in the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mr Sergey Dolgopolov - on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U260	1 June 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U261	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is June 1, 2019. ( Internouncing call.) There's another proposal? Please turn on the microphone for Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U262	1 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U263	1 March 2019 So, 1 June and 1 March. So we have to vote on both proposals. Does Member Dolgopolov have another proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U264	I just wanted to say that the deadline for submitting proposals for this draft law is linked to other draft laws. It was only for this reason that it was proposed on 1 June, not for any other reason.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U265	Okay. Colleagues! There are two proposals: 1 June 2019 and 1 March 2019. We must first vote on the deadline, i.e. 1 June. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for the submission of proposals on 1 June 2019. Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against -17, refraining from -7. The deadline of 1 June 2019 therefore remains in force. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, propose to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Law on the rental of residential premises” submitted to the Saeima. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U266	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I will refer to the draft law on which you were addressed today by the lone pickets. And I want to explain what the reason for this picket was. I would like to add immediately that both the Commission voted in favour of this draft law and I myself voted in favour of it. Because the law governing the field of rent was adopted far away in 1993. This has become obsolete over the past 25 years and the State is not responsible for the interests of either tenants or tenants. That is absolutely clear. Because of the obsolete law... Now and for several years now, this number has not changed... There are more than 500 cases in courts, where disputes between tenants and tenants are dealt with, so this new regulation in the field of rent is very, very necessary, and is expected by thousands of Latvians. The project, developed by the Ministry of Economics, provides for a number of important and very necessary cases, such as greater protection of the interests of tenants, the reduction of the shadow economy, as all rental contracts are to be registered in the Land Register. It is also envisaged to significantly speed up the settlement of disputes between tenants and tenants. And this will reduce the costs involved, and a new framework for the term of contracts will be established... but all these points relate to some new life, which we will begin with the adoption of the new law. However, there is one debt from the past, and it is a problem for tenants of denationalised houses. According to data of the Central Statistical Administration, the State of Latvia denationalized and returned 10 321 houses, and it affected 234 138 tenants. Over these 25 years, people who have been cheated on the side of the country... because in the opinion of several lawyers, by giving the owners of the house and not giving the tenants of denationalised houses the opportunity to acquire an equivalent residential space, the State has violated Article 96 of the Satversme, which provides that everyone has the right to inviolability of housing... thus creating a fundamental problem on housing, which has not been addressed at government level for 20 years. For more than eight years, our country has also failed to comply with the law adopted by the Saeima on compensation for tenants of denationalised houses. Only this year, thanks to the Ministry of Economics, has it been possible for these people to receive compensation. The Ministry of Economics prepared a new political initiative, but unfortunately it was subordinate to the adoption of this law. And when I decide whether to vote in favour of this draft law, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the task of finding money... And this money, unfortunately... neither the number of tenants nor the amount of money that will have to be paid can be accurately determined. But it is currently about three and a half million euros, which the Ministry of Economics was already ready to ask the Ministry of Finance to pay these compensations from unforeseen circumstances. I very, very much hope that, next year, after a great dispute, after the improvement of this law, we will adopt a new regulation for rental, and at the same time we will also solve the problem of denationalised house tenants by paying them compensation. And I very much hope... and I would very much ask the Members of the newly elected parties, who promised to change their constituents, to vote at the same time on the whole package, because there are, as I said, four laws together. And it is the law “On assistance in housing matters” that will help tenants of denationalised houses to receive these compensations. And I very much hope that 13. The Saeima will enter history not only as the Saeima, which for the first time will support opposition requests, but also as the Saeima, which will finally solve the problems of compensation for tenants of denationalised houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U267	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U268	Dear colleagues, We do not really need to take over this stock. It's absolutely useless. Why? Because the existing Ministry of Economics, already technical, no longer burns for the implementation of this bill. Why? I'll explain to you. Yeah, it's really about this bill... Let's put it aside that maybe it'll arrange the rental market, but maybe it won't... It may be a really unnecessary load on the earth’s book. But the interests of the tenants of the denationalised houses are really affected. And several times already 12. In the Saeima, recalling Mr Asheraden's failure to resolve his homework on compensation, we heard a beautiful commitment. It's already in the same 12. In the family! Unfortunately, Mr Asheraden is absent and he will not be able to respond. But I will just read what he said on 21 June this year in response to my objection that we have still not solved the question of compensation for tenants of denationalised houses. He said that this rental law is a long-awaited law and that it is a very important law. Thank you. The issue of tenants of denationalised houses was addressed. ‘ My position,” he said, “it is very clear: we have to pay this debt, and I also presented this case to the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister also agreed at that point. It seems that a reservation has been made to this issue in the budget as well.’ That's what he said when the bill went to second reading. And now to hope that something will be fulfilled again is really naive. So by trying to save the situation 12. In the Saeima, I tabled some amendments to this bill. The amendments tabled by me stipulated that the Ministry should also establish a law on state and local government in addition to the law on the rental of residential premises... for compensation to the tenants of denationalized houses in equal parts, because without such a law and without the control of the Saeima... hope that perhaps someone working in the Ministry of Economics will really anticipate these funds is very short-sighted. Therefore, I call on you to be wise, to reject this draft law and to wait for the new and beautiful Ministry of Economics to redesign the draft law properly - along with the accompanying draft law, which will actually deliver on the government's promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U269	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U270	Colleagues! I think that this draft law has two parts. One is that of the past that has just been talked about, above all, colleagues. And it really is a serious problem at the moment that has not been solved... And more! I'd like to say that the law on the rental of living spaces... At the time when it was created, written, there was only one objective - to protect the tenants of denationalised houses. There was no other objective. As the years went by, of course, this became the basis for the relationship of rental law between the tenant and the tenant, but this law is currently hindering further development. If we look at the future of the rental market, the development of construction, especially in regions where the first rental houses have already been built, very successful projects... In order for such regions to develop further, not only the financial instruments but also the regulatory framework need to be organised. And this bill, in a way, lays the foundations for investors, developers (whether it is a municipality or a private businessman), such a guarantee for the cash flow... What are we in the commission... from business representatives... We listened. Local government representatives have also drawn attention to the need for a law to develop the construction of rental houses as one of the basic things. I call for support to be given to the draft law for further reading at first reading, but I would emphasise it (The President knocked down with a hammer.) : we should look at how... In my opinion, there should be a distinction between the problems of old, denationalised tenants of houses and this development scenario, however... these two paths in parallel, not in a single bill. However, their denationalised look... exclude from this bill and look at it... like a vision of the future... Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U271	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U272	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'll be brief again. The problem is, the problem exists, the problem needs to be addressed. We had several consultations with the Ministry of Economics. It was only during this term that the commission held three discussions on the draft law. One point. Two points. By rejecting this bill, we start working from a white page. That means we're losing time. We have been outlined and marked with those contradictions that have been incorporated into the original draft law. We have a whole base to continue to work to prevent errors and things that have not yet been resolved. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the Commission to continue to look at this draft law, while also highlighting the places that previous speakers have spoken about. If you, fellow Members, support the further examination of this draft legislation, then the deadline for submitting the proposals will be long enough, and that could be 1 May next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U273	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on the rental of residential premises 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mr Sergey Dolgopolov - on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U274	1 May 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U275	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 May 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Customs Law” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law on the amendment to the Customs Law 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mārtiņš Bondar - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U276	The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U277	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 28 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Animal Protection” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on animal protection law 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -15, abstaining - not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zarins on the deadline for tabling the proposals. Mr. Zarins is gone again. Please turn on the microphone for Janis Duklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U278	Thank you. 1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U279	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Defence and Security Procurement” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not 71, it's 17, it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone Member Janis Dūklavs for the deadline for submitting the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U280	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U281	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Private Partnership” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not 71, it's 17, it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone Member Janis Dūklavs for the deadline for submitting the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U282	1 March 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U283	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Legal Commission proposes to continue 12. Consideration of the draft law tabled by the Saeima "Amendments to the Saeima's Rule of Procedure" Please call me! To be put to the vote on the continuation of the examination of the draft law on amendments to the parliamentary roll of order 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, 10, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Parliament was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Janis Bordans - for the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U284	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 4 February 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U285	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 4 February 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as Members Teirumnieks, Jansons, Indriksone, Kirštein and Rībena, proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The budget and financial (tax) commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone for Mr Gatis Eglitis - on the deadline for tabling the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U286	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 1, 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U287	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is April 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, as well as Members Teirumnieks, Jansons, Indricksone, Kirštein and Rībena, proposes 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Law” submitted to the Saeima. Please call me! Did Members want to debate? I'm sorry. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Tom Ples.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U288	Hello, dear colleagues! This week, at the meeting of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we looked at the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Act”, which was taken over from the previous Saeima. These amendments to the law provide for implementation of deposit system in Latvia. The purpose of this draft law is to introduce in principle a single deposit system for packages, i.e. PET bottles, glass bottles and cans, both reusable and disposable. Such a system would provide for the payment of the price of the goods when buying a drink in a deposit, as well as a deposit fee for the container, which is separately indicated in the price of the product. The deposit will be paid back back by the person with the appropriate label. As environmental pollution and environmental protection are very topical issues requiring complex solutions, the introduction of such a deposit system would be one of the elements that would both reduce environmental pollution and encourage public involvement in waste sorting and care for environmental management. Similar deposit systems exist in many European countries, including neighbouring countries, Estonia and Lithuania, and their experience shows that more than 90 percent of packaging waste is returned. Since a large part of society in Latvia supports the introduction of such a system, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy also supported the transposition of this draft law in this Saeima. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U289	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U290	Indeed, colleagues, within the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, there was consensus that environmental issues and environmental management were important, and that it is a priority for all. The question is, how are we going to implement it? With regard to this draft law, the problem is that the draft law that is being examined here today was presented to the last Saeima just before the elections by individual Members. It was more like pre-election populism. The problem with this bill is that it is absolutely raw, unprepared, and what appeared in the discussions of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission has also confirmed this. There was no consensus between the ministries and industry representatives came up with heavy criticism. The problem is that, if we approve this draft law here today, then we can achieve exactly the opposite: we will not achieve a solution to environmental issues as quickly as possible with this draft law, but on the contrary, let us enter into long discussions trying to save this populist, unprepared draft law. According to the available information about the deposit system is an alternative draft law on which the Cabinet of Ministers has worked and which is already in the Committee of the Cabinet of Ministers. And there is work going on in which really is aligned, as a solution to integrate the deposit system in the best way into the specifics of Latvia. Much is said about how good it is that we will have such a deposit system, that it will give us some contribution, but it is defaulted that the real contribution from this deposit system, which is an outdated solution, a costly solution, a solution that does not correspond to the situation of Latvia... that this will enable only two percent of all waste to be collected. Furthermore, there is no thought of how it could be properly incorporated into the existing waste management system, where this could create additional problems, additional costs. This option is very costly. This is about 30 million people. And the meaning of it almost... Well, very minimal... And so, colleagues, we in the group decided that we would not support this draft law. The more correct it would have been (and I also called on the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy) not to take over this draft law for further consideration, but to give the Cabinet of Ministers a task to come with a draft law which they have discussed among themselves, which they have prepared accordingly. We cannot take over this raw, unprepared, controversial bill, otherwise we will suffer for a long time! Colleagues, therefore, I call on you not to support the transposition of this draft law, but to make the Cabinet work and come with a normally prepared draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U291	The name is Digit Schmidt.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U292	It's very short. I can to a large extent agree with Ivars Zarins' argument on the quality of this draft law and the motives for submitting it. We do have a harsh different position. We believe that this needs to be taken over, but in principle we need to redesign it, a sufficiently long deadline. In general, the deposit system is, of course, necessary in Latvia, but what we definitely do not need is to introduce something like an OIK... another OIC. We don't need a Norwegian monopoly... The monopolistic company, as it says, those "bugs" that will be mostly in the big department stores, where you will get a check to go back to the same department shop and buy the same again... You can't go to the market with that money, for example. We have talked to our information technology people in Latvia, which would mean introducing a normal system. They are ready to develop an amount of ten times less - at least ten times less! - a system that allows us to collect not only some type of bottle but all the waste that we have in nature, including tyres and everything else. So we call for support, but on condition that we reconstruct this draft law in principle.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U293	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U294	Yeah, colleagues. When we discussed this draft law 12. In the Saeima, I pointed to these aspects. There were two reasons behind this draft law. One - because it was elegant pre-election populism. And the other is that it would be an opportunity to make a expensive purchase for a particular supplier of these equipment (about 30 million!) and to buy equipment that is really outdated, that is ineffective and that is to a very limited extent addressing the problems that we want to solve. And in this respect, I really agree with Mr Schmidt. I have also met people in our industry, both those working in IT and those working in mechanical engineering. They say there's no problem... I'd better... if you want to make this deposit system... And that's my call if today we have it... If you support it and we move it forward, you really think that we are not going to draft this law... It will be directed by these Members... not for the implementation of this alien country's outdated technology... the purchase of technology, which solves little, but in order to use this procurement as an opportunity for our mechanical engineering industry, our IT industry representatives to make a new, modern solution, which will probably then also be an excellent export product for other countries, as now we are developing possibilities of artificial intelligence as well as technologies. Everything's going on. Let's go... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If we go this way, let us bear in mind that there must be a modern solution - a modern solution, not the one currently being offered! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U295	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U296	The following note is made: and then there will be proposals for a whole half-yearly period. Consequently, there will be normal proposals. Mr. Zarins, you don't have to pull everything off... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Zaryn: ‘... overwrite!’ ) I... Yes, and we will make proposals, and please support that we can finally introduce this deposit system in Latvia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U297	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - no, for - 22. Hence, the draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please turn on the microphone Member, Arthur Tom Plš, for the deadline for submitting the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U298	The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U299	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 March 2019. According to Article 39 of the parliamentary roll... Please change the tab. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science proposes to continue 12. Draft law “On Real Estate at Ezermalas iela 24/26 and Ezermalas iela 28, Riga, transfer to the association “Latvijas Mazpulki” presented in the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inguna Rībena.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U300	Dear colleagues, The Education, Culture and Science Commission examined, supported and proposed to continue13. In the Saeima, examination of the draft law “On Real Estate on Ezermalas iela 24/26 and Ezermalas iela 28, Riga, transfer to “Latvijas Mazpulki” society. As we know, in 1913 the existing Grave Manor was bought from private individuals and became a national property for youth education and development. In 1936, the Sun Garden was transferred to the needs of “Latvijas Mazpulkas”, and large youth events took place in this territory until the occupation of Latvia in 1940. The organisation “Latvijas Mazpulki” was restored in 1991, and in 1993 it was registered in the register of public organizations (Ezermalas iela 24/26, Riga, Saules Garden area). ‘ Latvijas Mazpulki is still the largest public organisation of children and young people in Latvia, and the society has 130 local clubs. The draft law is intended to transfer state real estate “Latvijas Mazpulkas” to continue their activities in the development of civil society and in support of education of children and young people. Moreover, Article 3 of the draft law stipulates that these real estates should be transferred to the state if the association “Latvijas Mazpulki” ceases to exist, so we would not risk anything.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U301	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the review of the draft law “On Real Estate on Ezermalas iela 24/26 and Ezermalas iela 28, Riga, transfer to the association “Latvijas Mazpulki” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Are Members against being a commission responsible? 13 In the family?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U302	The Commission has reservations, but I think Mr Asheraden is not in the Chamber, so I will give the Commission's opinion. The Commission considers that the legislative proposal should be seen further by the Legal Commission (interim: "Right!" ), because it is not an Education, Culture and Science Commission, let's say, a specialty - to determine different state real estate cadastres and to compare with the historically owned territories of “Latvijas Mazpuli”, and so on. So that we propose to hand over to the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U303	So there is a proposal that it is responsible 13. The Saeima would have a Legal Commission for this. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Commission responsible 13. There will be a Legal Commission in the Saeima. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals. The proposals must therefore be submitted to the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U304	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 21 January 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U305	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Is it acceptable to the Legal Commission? Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 21 January 2019. Honourable Members! Members Paviluts, Zakaistovs, Augulis, Dzintars, Zarins and Strīķe are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. We will continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption. In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, the National Administration and Municipal Commission shall propose to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Apartment Property Law” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Eriks Pucens.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U306	The National Administration and Municipal Commission reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” submitted to the previous Saeima and supported it for consideration as well 13. In the family. On 1 January 2017, amendments to the Apartment Property Law came into force. Despite the fact that the part of the common property belongs to separate dwellings and its outdoor spaces... external boundary structures... and several other fundamental, indistinguishable elements related to the operation of individual dwellings, not belonging to individual properties... As a result, since January 2017, it has not been possible to split residential houses into flats located on a single plot of land. This draft law is far from perfect and many proposals are needed to evaluate it. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission asks 13. The Saeima will continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U307	Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The State Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this in the Saeima. Do Members have reservations that this commission will also be responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U308	1 May 2019
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U309	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 May 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fishing” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U310	The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined the draft law and decided to support its revision. 13 In the Saeima, on the basis of Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U311	Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fishing”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U312	The deadline is 1 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U313	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue 12. Examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” submitted to the Saeima. Aldis Adamovičs, on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U314	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy decided to continue to see 13. In the Saeima the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”. The purpose of the draft law is to ensure the codification of administrative infringements concerning infringements in the circulation of alcoholic beverages. In principle, the amendments provide for additions to three articles. These concern both the interpretation of terms and administrative liability in the field of the circulation of alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U315	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The family was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members against being a commission responsible? 13 In the family? There is no objection. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U316	The deadline is 1 March 2019.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U317	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. In accordance with Rule 39 of the Parliament's roll, Mr Teirumnieks, Mr Jansons, Mr Indricksone, Mr Kirštein and Mr Ribena propose to continue 12. Examination of the draft law submitted to the Saeima “Amendments to the Law on the Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons”. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U318	Dear President, Honourable Members! On 3 August 1990, when this law was adopted, there were more than 120,000 officers and soldiers of the Russian army, the USSR State Security Committee was active, the anti-intelligence institution was active, and in total there were more than seven different types of troops, who were present here with their counter-intelligence parts. And at that time, which was before the guy, it was impossible to adopt a normal rehabilitation law, because, as you know, all repressive institutions were operating in the Supreme Council. What has been repressed illegally, and what should we do? This law applies to about 1,200 people who have been sentenced without trial, either by shooting them, by placing them in prison, or by sending them to camps where they have sat for 10-20 years... Well, we know, right here in Latvia - even the same “White Cross”... Those people have not already been rehabilized, dear colleagues! All the judgments that are in fact illegal, adopted by the military tribunals, the so-called Czech tribunals... There the names changed - NKVD, the State Security Committee, the KGB and so on. Interior troops, prison war tribunals... And now, imagine, the most paradoxal! A whole line of people has been sentenced according to Article 58 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federative Socialist Republic: “for the betrayal of the homeland”. They have not been rehabned. About the betrayal of a native country? Mr. Neighbour, your commission does not support what I understand. So you support the Criminal Code of the Russian Soviet Socialist Republic? You're crazy! In 1961, the Criminal Code of the LSCR incorporated Article 59: “on the betrayal of the homeland”. About the betrayal of a native country? And with this article, back in the court of people who had defended independent Latvia. So, by the law of 1961... Article 2a of the CPC Criminal Code... “for the betrayal of the homeland” judged people who national partisans... who fought the Czechs and judges. How was that possible? It's very simple! In 1961 orders were sent to the Central Committees of Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Ukraine and Belarus on strengthening the fight against bourgeois nationalists in emigration. Not a check, not a... all the post-war repression... has not succeeded... in some way expel national efforts from Latvians, Lithuanians, Estonians, Westerns and Western Baltics (which is a former part of Poland, as you remember)... the fight against Soviet colonizers. As a result, a devilish plan to show all the leaders of the Latvian exile (and therefore the exiles of other countries) as a lightning shooter, as bourgeois nationalists, irreconcilable enemies of the Soviet system and war criminals. And the order came. You know that, after the war, those who were involved in some real crimes had already been convicted... and those who had already emigrated, went to exile, say, to the west... So, what could be judged? Taken young people who had served, for example, in police battalions or as national partisans, or were legions, who had gone through filtration camps at the age of 19-20. Some had sat down five years after Stalin’s death freed, formed a family, worked in the Soviets, so to speak, in the shockerhouses, got the honorary articles... And all of them were collected and tried in 1961. The last trials - in 1973, four executions. More. The same famous Uldis Krastins, who still read at the university last year to lecture lawyers as guest lecturer... I met him... Well, the eyes shot, the man was scared, and he said: “You know, we had such testimony from Belarus here... We weren't impressed... “ And so forth. In 1997, Prosecutor General Skrastin ordered prosecutor Astra Leichenko to test... Well, she can't, let's say, 1,200 people to test. She checked the case of the Liepaja Police Battalion. So those who were re-judged... Her conclusions... I will give it to the commission for the next reading. I have this thing, I've studied it. Horrible violations of Soviet law! Because she was already unable to look at those things from the perspective of independent Latvia. She watched the law of the USSR... First of all, we shouldn't have tried twice. Secondly, who is there? What, then, could have been condemned in 1973? Some scrodder, some chef who had gone through... Well, maybe he had five years... And in 1973, he reincarcerated and sentenced four executions. Go on. Leichenko writes: witnesses lied. In 1997 many Witnesses were found, they openly admitted (and it is fixed): “We were forced, we were told that we would be laid off, our children would not be able to study, and so on, if we did not testify as we were written before us.” The Witnesses read from the paper evidence! Many were divided into five groups, promising: “You are at risk of death. If you give evidence that, behold, the neighbors have shot people with automatic machines, then you will be released.” Well, they showed, of course, didn't they? ... that they're next to... The next five... Then, the next five were forced to witness again to others. And so on. Then it turned out... In 1997 it was found that policemen in Latvia also had no machines at all. But it did not prevent them from being sentenced to death for 10 years or 15 years in prison. And so on. Why wasn't it... Why was rehabilitation not completed in 1997? The answer is very simple. Having examined the lists of these judges, it turns out that a whole line of judges had participated themselves in illegal cases in 1973. They could not judge themselves. All this has been described in great detail by Andrew Ezergelis in his book “Through the teeth of the devil”. Its second edition can currently be purchased at the Occupation Museum of Latvia. Andrew Ezergiel writes that today's... The biggest shame for the independent Latvian justice system is that these 1200 people have not been repaired... in this chaos. We dealt with this issue in the previous Saeima Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Representatives from the Office of the Prosecutor General and from the Supreme Court were invited. And they admitted... You know, rehabilitation prosecutor's office... was a special rehabilitation prosecutor's office... the prosecutor was actually... I think the Wholesale was her last name... or something like that. This is where lawyers know better... They say: “It has already been developed. I don't need to... There's no one to do it. What, then, will we begin to suffer again? Well, then we have to recognise everyone. And they're... in the camp, understand, their children were born, and they are also being oppressed now. And what are we going to do there? Now it will be terrible to do all this." But finally, it was decided that this work should be completed, no matter how difficult it is. These issues must be resolved by the Supreme Court together with the Prosecutor General's Office. There's no problem there. And I think we need to continue this work now and vote in favour, because without supporting this bill, we will admit that it was right for these home affairs... military tribunals... special, KGB tribunals... that we recognise Article 58 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic - "the betrayal of the homeland"... and so on. Thank you for your attention. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U319	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U320	Nine-minute horrendous movies. Thank you, Mr Kirstein, for your opinion. I would now like to express the opinion of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Kirstein: “In your own name!” ) So Kirstein was a Member, Balodis was a Member, Chair was a Member, Vectyran... was such a member Mārtiņš Schics... and they all submitted this draft law, ‘Amendments to the law on the rehabilitation of victims of illegal repression’. We examined this draft law in the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. The Commission, together with the Legal Office, unanimously decided that this draft law could not be moved forward. The argument is that these issues require an in-depth and broader discussion. Also with this bill... I understand, of course, that this discussion, Mr Kirštein, can happen here and we can listen to it for nine minutes, but... Also, with this draft law, Mr Kirstein, it would be necessary... You are the only Members who have tabled if? Also with this draft law it would be necessary to amend the decision of the Supreme Council on the procedure for entry into force of the Law of the Republic of Latvia on the Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons, which the applicants have not prepared. If it is necessary to extend the scope of rehabilitation with illegally convicted former citizens of Lithuania, Estonia, Finland and Poland on the occupied territory of Latvia, then, as informed by a representative of the Legal Bureau at the meeting of the Commission, this can be done with one separate amendment, Mr Kiršteina! Not to amend almost the entire law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. (A. Kirštein’s intermediate names.) In general, the Commission considered that work on the draft law in this wording could not be continued, but yesterday Members of the National Alliance - you know who - had tabled the same draft law once again on today's agenda. On behalf of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, I call for this draft law to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U321	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U322	Dear colleagues, Mr. Neighbour has informed you that we have examined this draft law and the Commission has not supported the transposition of the draft law. But to make it easier for you to make a responsible decision - to support or not - I would like to tell you about the substance of the law. This law was adopted in 1990 and has not been amended since 1990. Why is that? Because the law is clear, the law is laconic, that is, there are five verses that state that if people have done some action... and there the articles are listed... and have been punished in Soviet times... They were repaired. Everything is clear, everything is simple, it all happened. Mr Kirstein tells us today: the madness that can happen if we do not make amendments! I do not really know why Mr Kirštein is talking about this now, 13. In the family, not in 5. At the Saeima or at several other Saeima in which he worked. Today we have to change! But... Well, whatever... of course, if it is now clear that something is wrong, there could be an amendment. The substance of the amendments. I already said that the law is very laconic. There is no need to carry out analysis, research, but simply, if we see - there is a judgment, there is a clause, there is a person's rehabilitation. What is Mr. Kirštein and other colleagues offering? They propose to expand the range of articles. And then... What are the consequences? If, for example, a new article appears now... if a person has been punished for banditism during the Soviet period, he is rehabiliable. This verse may have been applied for political reasons, but it may have been the subject of robbery and murdering people. Can we really allow this law to enable us to revitalize him for this reason? That's not right! The Legal Office also indicated that the law should not be amended if it was proposed to change 80 per cent of its content. In terms of volume, there are five articles, but it is proposed to amend 80 percent. That's not right! Consequently, I think that if Mr Kirštein has a desire to improve regulation... because there is one rational question in which there is a story about people who were not Latvian citizens, Poland... with Polish citizenship, with Lithuanian citizenship... such amendments may be necessary and may be made by amendment of one to Article 5. Please submit this proposal, let us consider it. But this option, which we are now debating, is not valid. Please reject.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U323	The name of the Member, Janis Bordan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U324	Dear colleagues, I just met... I was not among the draft laws, but I have followed over the last few years the fate of people who have been oppressed and who have been tried for various crimes during the Soviet occupation... During the occupation of Latvia. And, learning about this situation and remembering what happened in 1990 and a little later, and all the rest of the time of independence, I also remember legal discussions about similar cases. And when I analyse this, I will call for support to be given to the draft legislation that has been tabled for the following reasons. There is a principle in law: it is better not to condemn someone who is guilty than to condemn someone who is innocent. And what has happened during the occupation is that very many innocent people have been convicted, including perhaps someone about banditism... was actually convicted of banditism. But most of the time... I'm not going to mention "mainly"... because these statistics are really... Maybe you have to do... but then I have to think if it really has to be analysed so much... Well, that would be so how many of those who were falsely convicted of banditism who - indeed - were. This, in my opinion, would be something like measuring the distance between Riga and Daugavpils in centimetres and not in kilometers. To a large extent, people who, by the way,... were judged for banditism and similar crimes... and some of them are still alive... and they have not been repaired either. Incidentally, when it comes to this law... If there's a chance... I hope that you will vote and allow this draft law to go ahead and have the opportunity to talk about the wording... I'd be talking about the name, too, because... Well, interesting - can the repression be illegal and... legal? I think what happened during the occupation... repression... there were also repressions, and they must be declared illegal. If we are talking about whether the law is detailed, I do not know why it seems to me that if we do not approve this draft law, we will not accept it for consideration, so no one will really do any research now, and these people who are still alive will not expect that the Republic of Latvia, which they were fighting for - unlike the generation that was then born... They're real, physically, conscious... in a sense, perhaps by living very simply, they maintained in their mind the laws of the Republic of Latvia in their territories of existence. He was repressed for that. The repressive apparatus that existed at that time also worked legally - according to the laws of that time. Quite little, I would like to say that we have to rely on legal experts, because this is also, in a way, political - admittedly, political! - law. Let us remember when this law was passed - in 1990, three months after the termination - of the operation of the State Security Committee in the Republic of Latvia, on the territory of the Republic of Latvia. The last prisoner from the corner house came out on 5 May. And on 3 August this law was passed. The entire army of occupation, perhaps even with nuclear weapons and with hundreds of thousands of personnel, and with a tank-armed armor, stood in the territory of Latvia... and also with the militia, much of which had maintained all of these repressive apparatus and repressed them. And they stood in the Republic of Latvia! Most people, in fact, were still afraid of what was going to happen here and did not really know what was going to happen here. And it is very interesting that this law - unlike all other laws - has not been amended once. Other laws we... Jurists know there is a test time - after a certain year we are analysing whether the law needs to be improved; it is improved, it changes... and so on. But this law has not been amended at all. I think it wasn't repaired because of some fear, because there came lawyers, prosecutors and said we're gonna excuse some bandit here now! But this is exactly the case when it may be better for us to justify someone rather than justify Latvian patriots. I call for the vote on this draft law and support it. ( A circle of the new conservative group.) Name to Member Alexander Kirštein, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U325	Dear President, Honourable Members! Thank you, Mr. Borden. He already said 80 percent. I just want to add a few things. The question was asked here: why has this not been done before? I can tell you. Until 1994 it was more important - we had to get out of here troops, the KGB and everyone else... in order to get some kind of... for the country to be safe... and could study something. How many years we needed to uncover the KGB documents, and what resistance! Previous Saeima... three times passed the law that the KGB archives should be published and each time the President refused to sign. And here cometh, and ask foolish questions, Why didn't you do anything for 20 years? The answer, Mr Judin, is very simple - realistic since 1997, when it started, it took at least 15-20 years for these things to be investigated in archives. The most researched was not by lawyers, but by historians, such as Andrews Ezergailis, who only last year... Last year... A year and a half ago, he published his book... and collected... As well as the data of the Public Prosecutor's Office... And there was a huge pressure that we shouldn't do anything. And the last one. I just want to add. What has changed? Two months ago both the Legal Bureau, the Supreme Court and representatives of the General Prosecutor's Office acknowledged that it is necessary to do this... including the Legal Office. Has this changed over time? How, then, did their thoughts change suddenly? That's funny, too. I therefore call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U326	Name to Member Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U327	Colleagues! I think if even one person knows that he has been repressed but still has not been repressed, we need to act. There is no doubt about this. This must be done, and the law may provide for the following procedure: if there is, for example, a person convicted of a criminal act, we can assess and understand an individual case. And if we really see that he's been repressed, let's revitalize. But if we just say that everyone who was punished during the Soviet period... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kirštin: ‘ Except! Read the law!’ ) Yes, except for individual groups, but this exception is not so extensive. We risk the rehabilitation of people who have been severely punished. I suggest that we discuss this issue, discuss it, and if necessary we can make a good law. I really do not invite you to forget, close this subject. Thank you, Mr Kirštein, who has taken this issue seriously - perhaps you have a lot of information that can be used to develop a qualitative solution. However, this solution is not legally correct, and it was also pointed out by the Legal Office. We should not continue this work, but better draft quality legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U328	The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U329	Sometimes the truth is born. And that's very good. I was the head of the commission first. I would now like to say on my own behalf that this really is a political decision. Mr. Bordan, I have to agree that, if not now, then it will go somewhere else... and don't know when it will be. I agree. I understand that the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs will have to work on this. In fact, the Legal Office will have to work on it. I do not want to put a conscience and a legal turnaround at the moment. I have a stronger conscience than a legal delay. I myself will support the progress of this draft law. Mr Kirštein has promised a strong commitment to this process with all the other promoters. As far as I can see, the homework has been done. I therefore invite you to give the opportunity to get it to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, where we have these really unpleasant things, all this plague of Communism that Latvia has experienced, and the shadow... then stop! And we are talking further about the case, not the applicability of legal tactics! One or a hundred or a 1200... so that I am calling for real support. And let's go! The day is already... It's half four. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Kursīte-Pakule is being rounded up.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U330	Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U331	Hello! At first, I had not planned to talk about this draft law (Interface: “Do not do it!” ), but especially for the sake of honor I still... After listening to John Bordan's speech, I decided I had to say... And in particular, I would like to reflect on what Mr Judine said, because what he said is from the legal... How do you say... as a lawyer I can no longer agree, nothing was wrong there. But I noticed such an ideological problem there. And the problem is that. — Dep. A. Moody’s transcript.) ... your offer is: if someone was falsely sentenced during the Soviet period, then there must be legal channels for his rehabilitation. But my offer is, you know what? If someone with the help of this law will be repaired unreasonably and he will indeed have been a bandit, then you will figure out ways to remove the rehabilitation! Somehow it's... It is a difference between a legal approach and such a human approach. You can't punish the falsely insulted... the victim, make him feel again the victim. Something like that... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U332	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons” 13. In the family! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 1, for - 10. The draft law will continue to be examined 13. The Saeima. 12. The Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members have reservations that they will also be the Commission responsible? 13 In the family? ( Interface: “No. ” ) There are no objections. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals, Mr. Neighbours. Turn on the microphone! ( Milestones.) Please turn on the microphone for the Member of the Village. A deadline should be set for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U333	Mr Kirstein, let us set a time limit so that we can succeed. January 21th? No, no. I absolutely do not join you. So... I'm sorry... Kirstein talked his ears, I'm sorry... ( Internouncing call.) 1 March. 1 March. March 1st!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U334	The deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2019. Mr Kirstein, do you want to talk about the deadline for tabling proposals? Please turn on the microphone for Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U335	Thank you. Honourable Members! All proposals are known there, and in fact, discussions in the Commission could take place mainly with representatives of the Prosecutor General's Office and courts, because lawyers who have worked on this law have already prepared all the answers. I think you don't have to pull that long! My proposal would be to extend perhaps until the end of January - let us say, until 25 January. I believe that this is absolutely enough.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U336	So, 25 January, huh? Okay, thank you. Two deadlines have been set for the submission of proposals. We must first vote on the deadline, so on 1 March. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for the submission of proposals on 1 March 2019. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 17, for - 1. As a result, the deadline for the submission of these proposals is 1 March 2019. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the member Latkovska, Adamovich, Kalniņa, Judine, Asheraden and Lībiņa-Egnere be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, a Member, has applied for this.”
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U337	Dear colleagues, Indeed, very briefly, because this is an important draft law. We're a lot of... for the failed homework, but this really is a job on the Mondays. At the spring session next year, our main task will be the presidential election, and now the Law on the Election of the President provides that by putting together all the statutory dates for the submission and evaluation of nominations, the minimum period of... There are only five days between the submission of nominations and the vote at the Saeima sitting. In our view, given that these will be the first open presidential elections, it is also very important for the public to be involved in the cooling-up of the candidate for Presidential office, and it is therefore necessary to provide for a longer deadline between the nominations and the vote of the Saeima. Consequently, we in the group have prepared this draft law, with a minimum period of time between the submission of applications and the moment of the election being at least 15 days. Colleagues, I call for this bill to be supported and passed on to the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U338	Thank you. Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) There are no objections. Are there any objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) None. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Vitaly Orlovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U339	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids” (No. 13/Lp13), second reading. No proposals have been submitted for the second reading. The Commission unanimously supported the draft law at second, final, reading and asked the Saeima to do the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U340	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Voters’ Register”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Tālis Linkaits.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U341	Hello, colleagues! For the second, final, reading we have received one proposal that changes the content of the article in editorial terms, but does not change the substance. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U342	So it's 1. - The proposal of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government - supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U343	The Commission unanimously decided to support the draft law at final reading, and the request to support you too.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U344	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Voters' Register! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Tālis Linkaits.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U345	Colleagues! No proposals have been received for this draft law and the Commission is asking for the draft law to be approved at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U346	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Skride.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U347	The draft law provides that, with the entry into force of the... comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which cancels the normal extended working time for medical practitioners. Thus, the draft law allows doctors to work 16 overtime a week. One proposal was received for the draft law, which comes from the Ministry of Health and was supported by the commission. And it is intended to clarify that an increase in overtime can only be allowed with the sole aim of ensuring access to healthcare. We supported it in the Commission. And now we call...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U348	So the first proposal tabled by the Minister for Health Anda Čakša is supported. Members are in favour. And the Commission calls for support for the draft law. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medical Treatment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Executors of the Court”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Ralph Nemir.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U349	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! On 12 December, the Legal Commission examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Executives”. The essence of this draft law is, in fact, to supplement the law of the bailiffs of the Court with a norm, which requires sworn bailiffs to draw up a list of non-registered movable property indicated in the composition of the estate. This draft law also provides for a limit for bailiffs to receive large-scale recovery cases, thus balancing the load of bailiffs with cases exceeding the amount of 10 000 euros. And the third thing in this draft law is to determine the nomenclature of cases and the time limit for storage, as well as record-keeping statistics... the accounting arrangements. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U350	... at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Execution of Courts”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U351	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U352	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - 18 January 2019. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to law “On North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U353	Hello! The Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the law on the Northern Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve’. No proposals were submitted for second reading. And the Commission is asking to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U354	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On North Vidzeme Biosphere Reserve””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U355	The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U356	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. On the agenda - draft law amending the Law on the movement of fertilisers, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy – Member Jānis Dūklavs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U357	Dear colleagues, The Commission has prepared for second reading a draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers. Four proposals have been received. All these proposals are editorial. Three of them come from the Ministry of Agriculture, one from the Legal Bureau. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U358	1. is the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture, Janis Dūklavs. Supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U359	Proposal No 2 Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U361	Proposal No 3. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U363	And 4. - The legal commission's proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U364	4. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U365	Please approve the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U366	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Fertilisers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U367	27 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U368	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 27 December this year. On the agenda - draft law on "Amendments to the Solidarity Tax Act", second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U369	Colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined the draft law at second reading. 11 proposals have been received. Ten minutes. And now I call for these proposals to be examined. 1. is the proposal of Member Juris Pūce, which has not been endorsed by the Commission. In essence, it makes sense for the proposal to set a zero rate. This means that there would be no solidarity tax.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U370	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U371	Dear colleagues! First of all, I really apologise that only 11 proposals. How many minutes you got, so I wrote... Regarding the specific proposal... The proposal is aimed directly at the government, given that almost all Members have the position within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission that the continuation of this tax has actually lost its meaning with the introduction of progressive rates of personal income tax. I call for this proposal to ensure that the Latvian Government has the additional motivation to make the appropriate amendments to the law “On Personal Income Tax” as soon as possible and to waive the solidarity tax - this lupat dec, which unfortunately does not work and will continue not work after these amendments. I call for my proposal to be supported, as it is one of the ways in which the Latvian Government can finally move towards a simple system of progressive taxation. Request to support!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U372	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U373	The Commission Members did not support this proposal, both because it would have a negative fiscal impact next year and because equality would be reduced. We are not calling for this motion from Mr Puce. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “You said - Members of the Commission?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U374	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported. The next one is proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U375	Seeing 2. - The motion of the Member Poece. This is also not supported by the Commission. It is by nature a fixed tax rate of 15 per cent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U376	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U377	Unfortunately, the coalition of SASKAN, the Union of Greens/Farmers, New Unity and the National Alliance did not support the previous proposal. Then at least try to support this! This specific proposal addresses one of the serious tax problems associated with solidarity tax. In essence, the payment made by citizens or employers for the beneficiary of the salary... above a certain type... he/she shall take the form of social security contributions. The State then collects and distributes this money for its own use, as it wishes, without directing the entire tax to the social insurance budget, but also for other purposes according to the State. That is the real construction of the solidarity tax. Thanks to the first reading, we have slightly reduced the introduction of the various strange exceptions that have been necessary for this tax to work. For example, there was still a mandatory obligation to join the 3rd pension level, as well as special arrangements for the 2nd pension level... And a deduction that is not for other taxpayers... We have created a system that only works... Well, about 4,000 taxpayers... with a special accountability system, which we live in - the country as a whole. That's why my suggestion... And that's in line with the law... thereafter Article 8.1... That is, the distribution of how these contributions would then be paid... My proposal is to avoid shifting this tax away for purposes other than those provided for in the social budget. In particular, for this purpose it is necessary to have a tax rate of 15 per cent, then one per cent of its rate would be passed on to the health budget... insurance budget and 14 per cent for the state social insurance budget. Request to support this proposal. This is better than current regulation. It is also clearer - abolishing the need for special accountability, removing the need for a specific transfer of tax from one regime to another, reducing bureaucracy; this allows those citizens and employers who pay this tax to be less accountable for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U378	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U379	There is nothing more to add. The Commission has not supported this proposal and therefore calls on Members of the Saeima not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U380	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 46, for - 1. (Laughter) The proposal is not supported. ( Milestones: “With each time better! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U381	3. - the proposal by Mr Puce, Member, which provides for the exclusion of the article of the bill, which lays down the procedure for payment of the tax and compensation. The Commission has not supported this proposal. I call on Members not to support this proposal at the Saeima sitting either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U382	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Poke's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 45, against - 46, abstaining - not. ( Internoint.) (Laughter) The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U383	4. - it is also Mr Pouce's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote, vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U384	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Poke's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's against - 47, it's not. ( Internouncing call.) The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U385	5. - it is also a proposal from the Member, Mr Puce, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U386	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Pucem. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U387	Dear colleagues! Thank you, of course, for all those who support my proposals. And I understand... feeling that there is some special fight here. But, of course, the law on solidarity tax is, by its very nature, a particularly vile formation in our tax system. Magnified dec, which has been drawn along with various exceptions: exceptions to the end of the exceptions! Although this law has been in existence for only two and a half years, it is actually one in which... there has been a continuous need to clarify it and to change it because the practical implementation of this law is burdensome, administration is difficult and application of this law is difficult. My proposal 5 calls... and this is linked to proposal 7. So, my fellow Members, I can make it easier for you... If you vote... if a majority vote against - I hope that this will not be the case with proposal 5 - then, in fact, proposal 7 cannot be voted on. It is a question of how tax revenue is redistributed. And my suggestion, like I said a moment ago, is to maintain that this tax income is diverted only to social contributions, only for this purpose, as it is paid, thus excluding special reporting arrangements. I would also like to point out that this particular article 8.1.3... until then it was also in another article of the law, which is now being reworded... In fact, it is the only case in the Latvian labour tax system, where people pay taxes... how it has been recognised by the Constitutional Court... this labour tax paid, solidarity tax... there is in fact no individualisation in any way in the budget. It does not create any right for a person who is a taxable person to claim tax relief, for example, for dependants or similar. This is, in fact, a unique arrangement, the purpose of which is simply that (that is to say, a norm of about one year old) that the municipality also receives part of the payment in order to pay some amount in some way to the municipalities. Not by funding a particular function, but simply redistributing tax revenues. A real mechanism to put it in place... A special mechanism is in place for re-allocation, with specific deduction arrangements for these 4000 taxpayers only. One of the most inefficient examples. For this reason, I am asking you to support my proposal 5 and then also 7. They are linked. They make it easier for the taxpayer to pay the tax, they put the system in order. We will be freed from this strange exception, where labour tax is not counted according to an individual. It is an exception to the Latvian tax system, which has no argumentation at all. Nothing! Because it just happened. Let's vote 'for'!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U388	I closed the debate. What is to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U389	For the Commission... We had a discussion on this proposal in the context of the fact that, if there is no part of the solidarity tax transferred to the personal income tax account, then we have additional commitments. At present, the medium-term budget, as long as it is in force as a temporary budget, also provides compensation to municipalities, providing 19,6 per cent of tax revenue. This means that the state will still have to pay the local authorities compensation for this income. The Commission has not supported this. I also call on the Saeima not to support this proposal at its sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U390	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Poke's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's against - 47, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U391	The 6th is also a proposal from the Member, Mr Pouce. This is also not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U392	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U393	Colleagues! Proposal No 6 is on a slightly different subject. In fact, it is not about simplifying some kind of solidarity tax administration, but, in my view, social responsibility. Currently, the solidarity tax is paid as compulsory state social insurance contributions - individualised to a particular person. Then they are redeployed, they are deducted from the individual and counted in general order... not even in general order - there's no such order... simply in the general special budget of public pensions. There is some logic there, because the aim of social security ceilings is to ensure that people in the short term do not manipulate national social security contributions, which will then generate income from the state for a longer period... inadequate contributions. However, in this case, my proposal does not apply to the entire amount paid, but only to the part that is transferred directly to the national old-age pension, or first-level pensions. Unlike, for example, short-term social benefits, short-term social insurance, the fact that public pension insurance is now... First-tier pension insurance can make very high contributions in the short term... over 62 thousand euros a year... It's coming to zero... And in the long run... We are talking about a longer period of time for people who, for a certain period of time in their lives, rather than their entire working life, earn a relatively high income... Let them not recover their personal contributions for social security as their own pension. I use an example in the Commission, which I think is a very correct example. There's a profession like that, a doctor. Doctors have a very long education process. Thanks to Latvian laws, even most of their education process, even if they are paid during medical studies, usually working as sanitary or similar, and especially in residence, they actually receive a very small salary. Very little salary! Wage, which is significantly lower than the average wage in the economy. After they have completed residence - and overall, the study period can last up to 12 years! - One of these doctors has become outstanding specialists. They often earn a lot of money while working at a number of jobs, and I am happy with them. I'm happy for them! These are people who, through their education and through their help, have earned the opportunity to gain and earn a high wage. However, for the 12 years they had been receiving very low wages. Now that they could compensate for the lack of contributions to national social insurance, they are deprived of this opportunity by this law - as it is now - and cannot then obtain a pension for this earned salary. They can't get it! It is extremely unfair to these people who invest very much in their education and, of course, earn very little income during that period. This is just a salary law. Only remuneration is subject to solidarity tax. I therefore call for this extreme injustice to be prevented. In support of my proposal 6, we will ensure that certain people, these 4000 taxpayers, even if they have had periods in their lives when they have had higher or lower income, all their contributions will be assessed when they receive an old-age pension. Request to support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U394	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U395	The Commission did not support this proposal either by experts from the Ministry of Welfare. I call on the Saeima not to support it at the sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U396	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Poke's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, (The vote was taken by the votes cast. (See the box below.) The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U397	Colleagues, 7. - Mr Pouce's proposal: no vote. 8. is a proposal by the Minister of Finance, which determines the tax period. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U399	9. - Mr. Pouce's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U400	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U401	Thank you, colleagues. I really thank you very much for supporting my proposal. Proposal 9 focuses on what is my true and profound belief, which I have expressed several times in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, and which I believe has the agreement of an absolute majority of the members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This proposal has no fiscal impact. Not taken away... We have 40 or 60 here every time, or as much as we need, the millions that will disappear if something changes on this tax. This proposal has no such effect. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that we end this rag dec, to say this, Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, Frankenstein... Yeah, I know it can't be done in one day. This cannot be done in one day! People make contributions. There must be a mechanism to get out of it. After all, the replacement must be developed. I think that this can be done by submitting the 2019 national budgetary package. That would also be right from the point of view of fiscal responsibility. I do not know the exact date on which the Latvian Government will present the budget package. “ When will the government be?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ") That is why I have set in this proposal a deadline by which I think the government should already have, as well as the budget package... By 1 May 2019. And I call... Until 1 May 2019, the government should submit to the Saeima a draft law on the abolition of the Solidarity Tax Law, while presenting appropriate amendments to the law on personal income tax, thus ensuring the progressiveity of the wage system. There are no arguments why Latvia should exist... in a situation where there are progressive tax rates... Why should there be two taxes on wages? The existence of a single tax, if all this were through personal income tax, would ensure that all taxpayers who are currently in the solidarity tax regime would benefit from the same tax relief, all the arrangements that already exist. There would be no need for another bureaucracy, another report, another form, another person... ultimately also the operating costs of the controlling bodies. If it were to be drawn up before 1 May, then I am sure that this draft law could ensure what I have in the proposal of 10, namely that the law would only apply until this year... next year, I'm sorry, June 30. Yes, of course, it requires a certain degree of commitment from the government to do so, but I really feel very confident in this Saeima that the time has come, with progressive income tax, to abandon this pointless law, the actual result of which is, of course, revenue in the budget, but, at the same time, expenditure on taxpayers, expenditure on the public administration and the sense of 4 000 taxpayers that their money can be deducted and re-distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U402	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U403	Good afternoon! I support the principal intention of Member Poece. I justified a similar position when I spoke at first reading, namely to repeal the Solidarity Tax Law and, at the same time as the amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax, to ensure effective progress in personal income tax, which means shifting the tax burden from low-income persons to high-income taxpayers. However, there are four ‘but’. Before abolishing the solidarity tax, it is necessary to ensure that social benefits are proportionate to income, so that the reasons for the introduction of the solidarity tax are eliminated. Secondly. It is necessary to ensure an economically sound and socially responsible distribution of personal income tax between municipalities. This is very important. Thirdly. The progressive tax should apply to all types of income of the population, not just wages, as Mr Puce suggests. Otherwise, Bertolt Flik’s paradox “to be cheaply rich” will remain the principle of the Latvian tax system, which is both a business brake and a cause of social inequality. And fourth. This is a reform of the system, not another measure. There must be a model and a calculation. Such a scale change would put the reform at an unacceptable risk and compromise it. I therefore call for the proposal not to be supported, but to return to it within the budget and financial (tax) commission, which I urge to set up for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U404	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U405	No, colleagues, nothing is to be added. Vote, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U406	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Poke's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 45, against - 46, abstaining - not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U407	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr. Puce's proposal. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U408	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U409	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! It is a normal practice that laws include the date on which the law ceases to operate... This is the case in the world, of course, not in Latvia... In the world, it is called the dogset clause, the text of the law. This law, too, should be found in view of the fact that some call it a lavender dec, others a francenstein, but in essence it is a crèches that have been produced 12. The Saeima and previous governments. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for this provision to be supported so that this law will cease to exist at one moment. The new government would set up a normal system for collecting more from the wealthy people of Latvia. We need a normal system - one that is in the world - not this very funny, very absurd and very... Let us say, the inexplicable way in which Latvia collects additional income from its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U410	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, what should be added?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U411	Colleagues, first of all, a new government needs to be created so that the new government can then make proposals. The Commission has not supported this proposal. And I also call on Members of the Saeima not to support such a proposal at the moment.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U412	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Poke's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 45, it's against - 47, it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U413	11. is the proposal of the Legal Bureau providing that the law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U415	And so I call on the draft law to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U416	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Solidarity Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined, but I have to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today. The written responses received to the question by the Minister of Education and Science Janis Reirs, the Member Kabanova, Ribakava, Agešin, Tutin and Krišāns, are satisfied. The written reply received by Arvilas Asheradenas, the Minister for Economic Affairs “On the legality and legality of the State aid scheme for subsidised electricity implemented by the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics” is not satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the schedule, no oral answer can be given. On the question of Member Zariņa, Krišāna, Orlova, Tutina and Rubika regarding the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On Compliance of the Right to Sell Electricity under Compulsory Procurement provided for by the Electricity Market Law with the State Aid Elements of the Law on the Control of Commercial Aid” – the written reply received does not satisfy the applicants. The Minister informs that due to the schedule, no oral answer can be given. On the question of member Zarina, Agešina, Goldberga, Švekova and Pimenova, Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “ On the position of the Ministry of Finance regarding illegal support and statements made in connection with the European Commission’s action in the case of support to Latvian electricity producers SA. 43140 (2015/NN)’ - written responses received do not satisfy the applicants. The Minister informs that due to a pre-planned timetable no oral response can be given. It has informed us by ministers. But, Members, if you see ministers in your circle, please address them and ask them to come to oral answers, however. ( Internouncing call.) A question has been put to Members. Members Skride, Paviluts, Pūce, Staķis and Bondars raised the question “On the introduction of a directive on falsified medicinal products and a regulation on safety features for medicinal products for human use”. The name of the Member, Andris Skride, to motivate the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U417	Colleagues! Like we... and other parties indicated in summer and autumn that Latvia is currently one of the most expensive medicines in Europe. The European Union Directive on the regulation of the safety of medicinal products will become operational from 9 February next year. In view of the uncertainty and uncertainty about the state of implementation of the Directive and the willingness of manufacturers and traders of medicinal products to ensure these labels and the necessary checks, the public is concerned about the availability of medicinal products after the entry into force of this Regulation, as well as the impact this will have on the already high prices of medicinal products. We therefore ask the health ministers to provide answers to the questions raised in the letter so that we can respond accordingly and urgently address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U418	Thank you. The question shall be referred to the Minister for Health. Dear colleagues, You have to register. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name for reading the results of the registration. Wait a second while they are being prepared! Name for the statement to Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U419	Colleagues! Five minutes after the end of the meeting we established a cooperation group with Canada and 20 minutes after the end of the meeting - a cooperation group with Australia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U420	Name for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U421	Not registered: Arvils Asheradens, Raimonds Bergmanis, Jānis Dombrava, Ilze Indricsone, Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Dace Melbārde, Vitalijs Orlovs, Lubova Švecova and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-12-20-PT13-511-U422	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
