ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the meeting of the Saeima on March 15, 2018. First of all, the amendments tabled to the Bureau's agenda. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “On publication of documents of the former State Security Committee and lighting of the power system of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime” (No 1105/Lp12) until 10 April 2018. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? “ Yes, ” he said. There are objections!’ ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting and include in it the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “On publication of documents of the former State Security Committee and lighting of the power system of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime” (No 1105/Lp12) until 10 April 2018”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore on the agenda. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption is asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and to exclude from it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Edwards Smiltena, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Ruka, Vara Krūmiņa and Jurs Viļuma refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U2	Poverty is the most cruel form of violence - slow and painful. That's what Mahatma Gandy said. Colleagues! In Latvia, the risk of older poverty has increased over the last year: 40 percent of people after 65 years of age are at risk of poverty. It is known that the poorest part of Latvian society is the pensioners, especially those who have had the most active years before the restoration of Latvia's independence, as well as in the 1990s. There are hundreds of thousands of such people, colleagues! If a couple of pensioners live together, both pensions cover basic expenses for housing, utilities, food and some others. When a week ago, colleagues met with seniors outside Riga, they did not hide the frustration of those “vitamins”... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) did not conceal the disappointment about those “vitamins and gifts” for the Latvian nation during the centenary of the country, such as the rise in the prices of public utility services; many “gift” had bigger electricity bills (not to mention the injustice of OIC). Movements are becoming more expensive, especially in regions, as fuel prices have risen. This also affects food prices in the regions. This is also about increasing gas bills. Everything becomes more expensive! In order to receive health care services, there must be even months of long queues. Of course, if it is a hundred euros, you can get the service right away. That's the system! It is possible to survive when costs are divided into two. But colleagues, as we well know, the average life expectancy of men in Latvia is 10 years shorter than for women. As men, they leave one on average for 10 years, because the average age for men is 69 and for women is 79. And it is also a tragedy for many financially. Therefore, even a model of life is common in Latvia, that two representatives of the retirement age choose to form a single household with a common spending basket to survive. That is the reality! If poverty is the same as violence, then in Latvia, it is particularly violence against women. Because it is wrong to assume that half of the household budget is lost, losing its “second half”. Women receive substantially lower pensions than men. The loss of a spouse may even be a financial blow of 60 or 70 percent. The latest report of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) on the Latvian pension system concludes: “In particular, women in Latvia are subject to age (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) the risk of poverty." At the age of 75, currently a third of women in Latvia receive less pension than is necessary to overcome the poverty line. 78 percent is at risk of poverty for single seniors living alone! Already in the beginning of March, the Association of Latvian Regions submitted these amendments in the Law “On State Pensions” and the State Funded Pensions Law, which we are seeing here today at the Saeima sitting. Basic idea: 50 per cent of the pension received by a spouse who has passed away for eternity is entitled to the surviving spouse, but...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U3	Mr. Smilten, one moment! Colleagues, I call for the negotiations to be interrupted. Respect the speaker! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U4	... but - provided that the marriage has been registered for at least five years. And the surviving spouse may apply to the National Social Insurance Agency within two years. Colleagues! We regard ourselves as European-oriented, talking about belonging to Europe, about being at the heart of Europe. The Association of the Regions of Latvia is convinced that the best way to demonstrate this is to give its citizens what has been taken for granted in Europe. There are only two countries in the European Union where there are no widows' pensions: one is Bulgaria, and the other, colleagues, is Latvia. In this way, we will reduce social inequalities and poverty. It is important to realise that this money will come back to our economy and the state budget. The elders won't paint it, they won't put it in their socks, they won't take it anywhere - they can't take it! - but will spend right here in Latvia. And he'll do it immediately. This will be an important step towards reducing the shadow economy. Not fighting, colleagues! Because fighting and repressive methods can be called a decision by the Saeima - if you do not pay social tax, you will not get healthcare. There is a completely different system of motivation. Such a step, which we are talking about now, is the right motivation system to make sense of paying social tax. In the 95 percent surveys, it is important for them to have part of their pension (Interface: “Time!” ) is inherited. And here's a chance, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U5	Thank you, Mr. Smilten. The speaking time has passed and cannot be extended. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface: ‘ Yes, yes! ’) ) There are objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Pensions” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 15, for - no, for - 50. Consequently, the draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Edwards Smiltena, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Ruka, Vara Krūmiņa and Jurs Viļuma refer the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member applied to speak about” Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U6	Good morning, colleagues! It is so specific that this year we are returning to the issues that we have already debated right after the election of this Saeima, already at our first session. And one of these things we are going back to is the question of establishing the inheritance of the second level of pensions, the necessity of it. There are three reasons why I am thinking about this. And I believe that this opportunity should be realised already in this Saeima. The first reason is that our society is mature, the public is calling for it. External experts are also convinced that Latvia should work hard on this issue and finally implement this solution. The previous speaker has already said that only two European Union countries have not addressed this issue - Bulgaria and Latvia. I think we really should finally resolve this. And the third reason is the real low income level of our citizens. Almost 28 years have passed since Latvia regained its independence, but we are still among the few countries with very low purchasing power, very low income, low pensions and extremely high income inequality. 20 percent of our country’s society receives six times as much income as the other 80 percent. And of course, most of these 80 percent are people who already have very limited income opportunities - practically no. They live from pensions and benefits. What does the European Commission say about this situation? The European Commission considers that income inequalities persist in Latvia. The European Commission notes that last year the proportion of people exposed to poverty fell to 28.5 per cent, but on average in the European Union it stands at 23.5 per cent. ‘ Unfortunately, Latvia still has one of the highest levels of income inequality in the European Union,” stresses Mr Dombrovskis. Although labour tax progress has recently been improved, its impact on reducing inequalities is expected to be negligible. ‘ Poverty and inequality remain high,” states the European Commission. Finally, the OECD recommends that we introduce survivor's pensions for the spouses. I have studied the statistics relating to this funded pension situation, and I have found that in reality Mr Reira should not be very concerned. I mean, he's worried that if we introduce this pension inheritance, it's going to affect... If we introduced it, it would only be normal and natural, because it is actually private property... These funds, which are personalised and paid into this pension fund, are private funds. And what arguments can be given to prevent private funds from being inherited? I'm not a lawyer, but... I do not find either logical or legal arguments that they could not be inherited. But when I talk about Mr Reira's concerns that this could have a negative impact on the cost of the first level of pensions, I think... Well, if there's no reverence between these two levels, and somehow there's no change in their money, then there can't have any impact. But I say, even if there could be some kind of influence, then... Just look at the numbers! From 15 to 66 years of age... these statistics refer to the population participating in this pension... occupational retirement provision. And what is the accumulated pension capital? You will be surprised, on the one hand, but there is no surprise on the other, if we know the whole situation with our people's income. In the 15- to 66-year-old age group, the capital reserve of one thousand euros is 487 110 people. Up to two thousand are 255 803 people. And if you count together this reserve of pension capital... from one... up to four thousand... It's one million...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U7	Mrs Schiffa, I am sorry, the speaking time is over, and that must not be extended. Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) (a.k.a. Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 38, against - 1, refrain - 48. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Seimas Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” presented by Raivja Dzintars, Jānis Dombravas, Einars Cilinska, Ingunas Ribena, Romana Moneyiņa, Kārlis Krēsliņa, Edvins Šnores, Imants Raudnieks and Gaidas Berzins be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, according to which it is the commission responsible. ‘ Mr. Ritvars Jansons, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U8	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On 1 February this year, the law “On the status of a member of the Second World War” adopted by the Saeima came into force. The law stipulates that the Republic of Latvia, as an occupied state, did not participate in the war and that the Republic of Latvia is not legally responsible for the violations of the occupation powers in the territory of the Republic of Latvia during its occupation. One such offence was illegal mobilisation in the armies of the occupying countries, in violation of Articles 23 and 45 of the Annex to the 1907 Hague Convention on the Laws and Traditions of War on Lands of War; these articles prevent the people of the occupied territories from being involved in their armed forces. Given that, as a result of the communist and then Nazi occupation, the State of Latvia was not able to ensure the protection of the rights of its citizens, these persons are considered victims of war crimes and deserve support and protection from both the state of Latvia and society. It is also worth remembering in the days of our memory. Whether the memory would take place on the officially recognized days of memory - 8 May, 17 June, 23 August, 11 November - or on any other date that is important for the soldiers themselves, their relatives and society. One such memorial day is March 16th, where soldiers are commemorated, not celebrated, as rememberers try to interpret it. Also on March 16, soldiers who have chosen this day of memory themselves deserve a memory. But you can’t tell your relative: “Remember of your dead on the day of the common memory of the dead, a candle in the evening in November!” If the deceased died in March and the relative wants to mention him in March. November 11 is wrong to set 16th March! It should be recalled that on 16 March the 6th Saeima established in 1998 as an official day of remembrance - Day of Legionaires' Remembrance. However, the 7th Saeima, under pressure from Russia (Interview). , this date was removed from the famous number of days in 2000, thus creating doubts about Latvia’s ability to look at its difficult history and doubts about the ability to internationally explain irrefutable facts of history. ( INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP: “Yes! ” ) Yes, these historical facts do not fit into the historical concept of Russia’s authoritarian regime, where victims are shown as criminals in order to justify their crimes during the Second World War and in recent history. These historical facts also do not fit into the Western comfortable historical concept of the Second World War, a concept that only contains one absolute evil: Nazism; the Communist crimes committed in Eastern Europe are “inconvenient” and do not belong to this concept. The Westerners did not fight for Eastern Europe's freedom! Together with other Eastern European countries, from the southern Baltic to the north of the Black Sea, U.S. historian Timothy Snaider included the bloodland between Hitler and Stalin. Thanks to Snaider's bestseller, the history of the 20th century of Latvia has been recognised in the world. It would be strange if we, who know very well Latvia's difficult history, avoided it or tried to rewrite it to someone outside Latvia. On October 29, 1998, the Saeima adopted the Declaration on Latvian Legionists in the Second World War. It explains the legal status of soldiers during the war and stipulates that it is the responsibility of the Latvian Government to take care of the violation of honour and dignity of Latvian soldiers in Latvia and abroad. The Saeima, voting for the 16th March as the Memorial of the Latvian national soldiers, would take care of the memory of the participants of the Second World War. We also have former soldiers among us! They wrote on behalf of their fallen brothers in the Cemetery of Leschen’s Brothers: “We look forward to the resurrection of righteousness.”
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U9	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? “ Yes, ” he said. Yes!’ ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 25, for - 31. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic of Lithuania” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Environmental Impact Assessment” be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Security Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the law on disciplinary liability of institutions of the Ministry of the Interior and officials of the administration of detention places with special grades of service” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted a draft decision “On the rejection of the 10 139 collective application of Latvian citizens “On the adoption of the Law on Cohabitation in Latvia””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Roman Mežeckis from 7 March to 9 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Roman Mežeckas to grant him unpaid leave from 7 March to 9 March of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For the unpaid leave granted to Ms Inese Pastrat, Member of Parliament, from 13 March to 15 March this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Inese Pastrata requesting her unpaid leave from 13 to 15 March of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On closing and opening the session of the Saeima. On the agenda - draft decision “On closing the parliamentary winter session of 2018 and opening the parliamentary spring session of 2018”. The draft decision envisages closing the Saeima winter session on 29 March 2018 and launching the Saeima spring session on 9 April 2018. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On closing the parliamentary winter session of 2018 and opening the parliamentary spring session of 2018”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On Release of Daces Blūmas from the position of a judge of Vidzeme district court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U10	Good morning, honourable colleagues! On March 6, in the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, the draft decision “On the release of Daces Blūmas from office of a judge of Vidzeme district court” was reviewed. In its application to the Court Administration, Dace Blūma points out that she wishes to retire, and asks to release her from office as a judge by 31 March 2018 at the same wish, as well as asks the question about her dismissal from office to direct her decision in the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia. In its application to the Saeima, the Minister of Justice asks to consider the issue of the release of Daces Blūmas, a judge of Vidzeme district court from the office of a judge on 31 March 2018 at his own wish. In view of the above, and on the basis of the Law on Judicial Power, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported that draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Dace Blīms to be dismissed from office of a judge of Vidzeme district court by 31 March 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Daces Blūmas from the position of a judge of Vidzeme district court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the dismissal of Marutas Balodes from the position of a judge of Vidzeme district court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U12	On March 6, in the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Marutas Balodes from the position of a judge of Vidzeme district court” was reviewed. In his application to the Director of the Court Administration, Maruta Balode asks him to be released from work at his own wish with regard to his retirement on 1 June 2018. In its application to the Saeima, the Minister of Justice asks to consider the issue of the release of Maruta Balode, a judge of Vidzeme district court from the office of a judge on June 1, 2018 at his own wish. In view of the above, and on the basis of the Law on Judicial Power, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported that draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite to release Maruta Balodi from the position of a judge of Vidzeme district court at his own wish from June 1, 2018.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Marutas Balodes from the position of a judge of Vidzeme district court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Hosams Abu Meri, Gaidis Berzins, Atis Lejiņš, Rihards Kols and Inese Lībiņa-Egnere are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the law “On holidays, memories and famous days””. Do Members object to this agenda... ( Intercretion: ‘ Yes! There are objections!’ ) Members have reservations? Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holiday, Remembrance and Markable Days” to be included on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking that the draft law drawn up by the Commission “Amendments to the Law on Electoral Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania” be referred to the first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” drawn up by the Commission be re-examined at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima's presidency proposes that the Member, Hosama Abu Meri, Gaida Berzina, Ata Lejiņa, Rihards Kola and Inese Lībiņa-Egnere's draft law "Amendments to the Law on Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days" be referred to the Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Atis Lejiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U14	Madam President, Colleagues! Today is a good day - we will vote for 11 November as a holiday; not a day of memory anymore, but a day of celebration. And you will notice that in society it is not only about the release of Riga during Bermont, 11 November 1919; this day is already celebrated throughout Latvia. Almost every city has military parades, and people come with candles. And it's no more a day of mourning, it's a day of feast, because it's what allowed us to establish our country on November 18th. Wouldn't have won on 11 November, wouldn't have won us on 18 November. But I'd like to stay a little bit at something else. And that's -- have you imagined what they were about soldiers? There is one part of the soldiers, completely forgotten, and they were those who had already been mobilised in August 1914. Among them was my grandfather. They were sent immediately away to Eastern Prussia, but they were called Russian, the Russian army. And in my grandfather's division, more than 60 percent of them were Latvians, pure Latvians. There are also Estonians and Lithuanians. And they're forgotten! But they returned and later joined the Latvian Liberation Army. That was one part. The other part was those rattles red... not red but ordinary strifemen who did not go back to Russia when the Germans came in. They deserted, remained in Latvia. And where did our soldiers come from, if we were all fought, if the Latvian army could grow up to 70 thousand? Because they were there, in Latvia. And there were the red strifemen... The red strifemen who could return to Latvia under the Brestainovsk Peace Agreement, as my grandfather did. But there were others - a Dutchweave in which the Germans fought against Latvia's independence... There was a turbulent history: moments fought against, moments about. But only in the end in Cesis battles they fought against us. There were both Latvians, Germans and Russians. In the end, they were added to the Latvian army. That's why... And there was a Russian battalion. And, by the way, the Russian battalion did not oppose the government in Liepaja. Yes, their division went to the Estonians and fought on our side with the Estonians. And, of course, there were Jews. But the Jews were scattered in all units in the Latvian army. So it's no wonder... Do you think why in the 1922 Constitution we wrote “The State of Latvia”? Have you thought about it? And not “Latvian”. Why? Because all the soldiers I mentioned fought for Latvia, for the freedom of Latvia. I forgot to mention British paratroopers. They have a graveyard in Jelgava... And, of course, there were Poles - not only Latvian Poles, but Polish Poles as well. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: French! ) The French were, and the Americans were, too. There was an American mission in Latvia. Without them, we would have died of starvation. A huge amount of help came from America. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš intermediates.) Therefore, 11 November 1939 in Latvia... it was celebrated as a 20th anniversary because it was all Latvian... not a Latvian holiday, but a holiday for all soldiers. And we want to make it a real holiday today and remember all Latvians - including those who fought in foreign armies around the world. We will all be together on November 11, Latvia's holiday - soldiers' day! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U15	Thank you. Mr. Latkovsky, will you speak against a draft law being passed on to the commission? ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Ilmārs Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U16	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Lacples day - November 11 - holy day. And who will speak against, especially in the run-up to the pre-election period? Well, I'll say 'no' a little bit. Clearly, it is a serious day that may have deserved its status as a holiday, a holiday. But do we not have enough holidays for us? ( Interface: “A little! ” ) Something should then be removed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t celebrate Johns!” ) Maybe... Perhaps John should be removed, but it should also be done in this pre-election climate. And then, by handing it over to the commission, we're definitely... Well, let's make such a piece before the elections, so maybe we won't be happy about it ourselves. We already have such a good drama for our celebration. Easter will now come - this is a certain period of suffering that usually coincides with the... March 25th before... and gradually we (The grass has grown in noise.) ... President?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U17	Interviews are allowed, but please keep quiet in the room. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Maritime intermediates: ‘... The party member is allowed to speak... Yeah, yeah! I know... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U18	And basically we go to Easter. It's like... ( Intercretion: “Speak! ” ) The day of Lāčplēsis was also created and the national holiday was held on 18 November. On November 11, it's a day of memory of soldiers, and we're gradually approaching it, but the climax goes to November 18. Now we want to start with one festival, then in the middle a little bit of it will fall off, and then we will try to get up on November 18. In any case, those things can be explored. And I don't want to link the holidays with money issues, but someone will have to pay for it. ( Interface: “Of course, businessmen! ”) ) Who has to pay for it! And all of this needs to be recognised. So let us leave this matter to the next Saeima! If we look at the calendar, 11 November 2018 is Sunday - this is a holiday. Very good! It's all right. Stay calm, Members. It's gonna be okay this year! And let's stay calm! This pre-election fever will, of course, not affect today, but if we take it to the Commission, then great miracles will begin there and it will affect it. So I am against and I feel that I also have adherents.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - 8, for - 3. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The order of business - examination of parliamentary requests. Request by Members Ivars Zariņa, Jeļena Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden “On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members’ question No. 373/J12 and the Ministry of Economics’s inability to justify compliance with the regulatory requirements when assessing compliance with the conditions set out in “OIC permits”. The request on behalf of the Commission is made by Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U20	Madam President, Colleagues! In the last three months, the Commission has become a Commission dealing solely with the issue of the compulsory procurement component. We are receiving documents from the Ministry of Economics on a regular basis for a period of three months, and the Ministry of Economics regularly arrives (Interface: on behalf of the Commission, speaking!) ), and the Minister also regularly comes to account for what has happened to these mandatory procurement components. Last week, the Commission decided, by a majority, to forward all these documents to the public prosecutor's office, because it is essentially subject to it. Let our law enforcement authorities address this issue and view it accordingly! Finally, the Panel also examined the request made by our colleagues Ivars Zariņa, Jeļenas Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakikova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimir Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvils Aseraden, regarding the replies of the Ministry of Economics to Member’s question No.373/J12 and the Ministry of Economics’ failure to justify compliance with the requirements of the legislation when assessing compliance with the conditions set out in the OIC permits. When voting for three “for”, eight “for” and one Member without voting, the Commission recognised that Members’ request should be rejected because the relevant legal provisions were not violated in the matters specified in the request. Consequently, there is no reason to accept this request as a request by the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U21	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U22	Hello, colleagues! Today, we are really looking at another request in the long investigation process in relation to the OIC phase. This particular demand is about one very important episode in this whole story, which is related to so-called container schemes. In particular, with all the well-known situation, when the permit issued to an economic operator contains the same conditions, it is said what he had to do: the construction of a particular station, while life turns out that there is no such station and that there can be something completely different. As the investigation showed, we found that it was the Ministry of Economics who legalised this possibility, claiming that the economic operator was not required to fulfil the conditions set out in the authorisation. In principle, he can install any power. He does not have to do what is written in the permit. And the Ministry of Economics justifies this with... and this view of the Ministry of Economics, its position with which it comes, is that the producer has legal certainty and rights. On the other hand, laws and regulations of the Ministry of Economics do not provide for the right to request that the requirements of the administrative act issued be met accurately. In particular, I will quote what the Ministry of Economics says. The Ministry of Economy, by providing explanations on the request, states: ‘The regulatory acts do not confer on the Ministry of Economic Affairs the right to revoke a decision granting an economic operator the right to sell electricity in the framework of a compulsory procurement in cases where its installed capacity is substantially less than its originally established capacity’. No legal basis can be given for this by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It refers to the general logic. Is it really the case that there are no external laws or regulations that would require such an opportunity to be given to the Ministry of Economics? In that case, it is possible that the Ministry of Economics has not even read the Energy Law. Because the purpose of the Energy Act determines... and the Ministry of Economics is responsible for energy, as we know. Maybe the Ministry of Economics doesn't know that, so I'll read it. Thus, ‘the objective is to ensure the efficient, secure and high-quality supply of energy users in the quantity requested and at reasonable prices’. What, though, does this purpose mean? Now, if we look at this situation generated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, on the one hand, there is a requirement that the businessman provides concrete capacity, but the businessman has done so in very different volumes - a hundred times smaller. So the question is, has the economic operator met the target requirement to provide a certain amount of energy to the user, or does it not? Go on. If we now compare the cost to the user of such a solution, which the Ministry of Economics provides in terms of legal certainty and regulatory requirements, and how much it should be according to what was written in the permit, then here again we will see a fundamental difference. Since the capacity provided for in the authorisation and the capacity to be installed and accepted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs differ significantly in grant of the aid. Namely, the solution offered by the merchants with these micropowers, with those containers... The regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers developed by the Ministry of Economics provide much more generous support. So it will be more expensive. Once again, this is not in line with the objective of the Energy Act. That's one thing. The other thing. Has the Ministry of Economics already forgotten why all this yew has begun, why have these permits been issued? In particular, these permits were issued for a specific purpose - so that we... in order for Latvia to be able to meet the commitments we have made towards the European Union. That's - to execute a certain... reach a certain amount of energy from renewable sources. Then the question is: will it really be possible, with these hundredest capacities, to produce the same amount of energy that he would have to produce under the conditions required by the permit issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs? Of course not! These are just a few points when we are talking about legislation. Another very important thing: the Ministry of Economics had to take into account that the public administration... and is determined by an external administrative act that the public administration acts in the public interest. The public interest also includes proportionate respect for the rights and legitimate interests of individuals. The Ministry of Economics has somehow forgotten about this again and sees no such administrative act. It's natural! The Ministry of Economics itself has a clear contradiction in its explanations because it says that public administration can use its powers only according to the purpose and purpose of the mandate. We have just found out that this point and the aim has been quite different - quite the opposite of how the Ministry of Economics interprets the fact of the performance of these economic operators in accordance with its administrative act. That's another thing. Let's go! Next. We see here: there is already a fundamental contradiction. The Ministry of Economy has therefore failed to comply with those requirements of the external legislation. Another such case is the requirements of the administrative act itself. And here again there are obvious contradictions, from which the Ministry of Economics has not so... You'll be able to explain. In particular, its administrative act lays down the capacities that should be respected and the administrative act contains only the information that is relevant. If this is essential, then we need to analyse it. More! The Ministry of Economics itself, by granting the right to an economic operator in this administrative act... When deciding to grant an economic operator the right to sell the electricity produced within the framework of a compulsory procurement, it itself refers to the fact that their economic operator has provided information where capacity is one of these parameters. The question is, ‘ Why is it not followed at all? ’ Why are we even being analyzed? Why is it even inserted into an administrative act? It was also unable to reply by the Ministry of Economy. More! The Ministry has tried to justify this: you know, we have granted this amount of aid to the businessman! However, this amount of aid was granted directly out of the capacity indicated in an administrative act which the operator had not installed. So where's the logic?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So... It is obvious that this is now a legal absurd and obvious imbalance between the Ministry of Economics' actions and decisions in the public interest. It is only a legal party. Let's also take the technical side here! Let's have a good faith that really... forget that there is no such regulation, there is no such requirement. We're looking very narrowly at the technical side. The Ministry of Economics is trying to say that these solutions, which were... these container schemes, where technology was installed with 10 kilowatts... that it was renewable electricity, it was cogeneration, which works as efficiently as provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, as provided for in this permit. Then I asked the Ministry of Economics: please name at least one of the following technologies that it works, which can really qualify for the permit conditions, those regulatory requirements under which you have made a positive decision for the operator! The Ministry of Economy said that it was not aware of such technologies. But colleagues, if it is technically impossible, even in theory, to do so, on what basis has the Ministry of Economics made such a positive decision on many occasions? May you, for example, also, in the case of economic operators who once had technologies that simply are... Well, it would not be possible even under the laws of physics thermodynamics to implement in general... To understand this absurdity, it is about trying to explain to you that a washing machine is possible, which will work as effectively as this large washing machine, which is provided for in the permit. But the businessman comes and says that he has installed this washing machine, only he has this washing machine on a different scale, that is, on his hand - like a wristwatch, and this machine will work as effectively, wash the laundry as well and as efficiently as a large washing machine. This is obviously absurd! The Ministry of Economics confirmed this with its answers, unable to name such technologies. Another thing like that. If we look at what this system is, why this support is provided at all, then we see that the basic condition is that this support is provided for highly efficient cogeneration. The Ministry of Economics is unable to name technologies that would be highly efficient on such capacities because they are simply not. It is therefore obvious that such a position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs does not meet either the regulatory requirement or the objectives and purpose of establishing this subsidised electricity system, why we generally provide such support, or the public interest. Then the question is: why was this interpretation of the Ministry of Economics necessary at all? Why did the Ministry of Economics do so? And the answer is that the Ministry of Economics set up such an interpretation of its decision in order to legalise these container schemes. Why were these container schemes needed? Container schemes were needed because, already in September 2012, there was a complete moratorium - a ban on the Ministry of Economics to take any decisions, permissions for this support. And then the wise lawyers of the Ministry of Economics figured out how to “develop” this story. Unfortunately, they didn't understand... pretty little understood from energy, because otherwise they would understand that it was, in principle, illogical... not only illogical but also, by nature, absurd - impossible absurd. However, on the basis of this absurdity, this container scheme - these stations, which were thoroughly tested by the Ministry of Economics for several months - was created. And after several months of inspection, it was evident that almost all these stations had not existed at all. Because only seven of these 39 stations had sales contracts at all, so the others, in theory, were not able to transfer their electricity. The Ministry of Economy tested them for five months, and even then it was not yet able to answer what was happening to them. It is clear that these verifications were mainly carried out to cover possible irregularities. And, my fellow Members, the biggest problem is this: if the Ministry of Economics does not change this absurd position, then this absurd position will be very strong support for all those businesses that now seem to have been denied permission by the Ministry of Economics, because these are the same container schemes. If, on the other hand, the Ministry of Economics has now made decisions that are contrary to the position it still defends, then I think after the elections... when these stories of praise will have been heard about how many hundred million - there are hundreds of millions! - The Ministry of Economics has saved, as if reducing the burden of this OIC for Latvian consumers, it will turn out that in fact everything is quite the opposite. And thanks to these decisions, businessmen who would probably never have started their production will now have a legal basis simply to demand from the country... from the state budget to pay them these millions. And many of the OIC's legal offices will be kept by a Champagne who defends many OIC merchants. This is all the more worrying that the Ministry of Economics drives amendments to regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers in which it seeks to legalize these container schemes, telling them exactly the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that the businessman was... is entitled to install these minimum power, cunningly bypassing it... by saying that there will be a minimum threshold as it may be, and that a transitional period of almost one year will be set for him. Question: "Why should it be put in the order of urgency?" It will again be one very strong argument for businessmen who are currently denied permission to say: “Look, we didn’t have to do it at all! There are amendments to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that already provide for this, and there are also provisions that its capacities can be da and we must reach this minimum threshold within a year!” In words, it is obvious that this is a politically covered afer, which is still going on, and the Ministry of Economics is the one for whom it has been crucial, important in that role. And as opposed to everything the Ministry of Economics tells the public, the coverage of this atmosphere is still going on. Colleagues! I call for this request to be supported, because it is essential for us to point out to the Ministry of Economic Affairs that it must review this position. Otherwise... What's ready... What the Ministry of Economics is doing at the moment - with its own inspections, with the cancellation of its decisions, it prepares holidays for the legal offices of OIC merchants for successful legal proceedings against the state of Latvia. And many, many millions will be lost. Colleagues! I call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U23	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U24	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, everyone else. I have long been so sure that everything that Member Zarins says about OIC is true. Don't worry, I'm complimenting you! And Mr. Zarins has actually set up an OIC police, he's gone into these matters, he's gone into these things very much. A week ago, a fora was given, if it were to be said, an advantage, such as a gift to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Asheraden, asking him to explain his future decisions. A week goes by, and again there is another request. Now, Brigman, as I understand it, is afraid to climb on this platform as the Head of the Request Commission. He sends a person who owes EUR 14 000 to the country. And that's no more to lose. And it is about this being the 36th request, which you have rejected in three years' time. Please, all the other honourable Members, to support the further progress of this request, so that the Ministry of Economics responds to the police officer Zariņš, who is on this subject, I think he has very well understood. And let us, as Members, get answers. It is not normal that a buffer commission with former Communists at the forefront (Dep. A.Brigmanis: “I am not a Communist!” ) simply does not answer any questions. 36 different requests have been made. I really start to hurt my heart at all this dishonesty. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolish's intermediate calls.) I don't look bad, and I'm gonna be told not to talk to the grass behind my back. Please support the way forward for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U25	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U26	Hello, brothers and sisters! ( The box “Go to Your Place! ”) ) I would like to contact the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Now Mr. Zarins is so active! Why is it difficult to come up with clear proposals on how we can resolve the OIC issue? And here we are discussing them at the Saeima sitting. I don't understand either. We have the tradition of the Saeima that ministers are like the holy cows in India, that they cannot be offended and cannot be criticised for anything. This is unacceptable to me as a former entrepreneur. All my directors came and accounted, and I strictly asked them what they had done and what they had not done. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Come to the commission sitting, Valdis!” ) We do not know why we are dealing with ministers like such sacred cows who cannot be claimed, they are not mistaken, they are at God’s level. What would I say? Undoubtedly, it is unpleasant that you are asked such questions and relationships do not improve. But I would like to say to you, as an example, about the employees I have raised. Such as the Head of Storent Bisenieks, the Head of Selva Būve, Orlovskis, the Managing Director of PERI Moscow office Čika, the Head of YIT LATVIA in Bože, and Grasmanis, the Head of the Civil Engineering Advisory Office. These people have been criticised and grew up. We are not afraid to criticise, nor are we afraid to correct. Come on, what do I mean? We live here and watch... Well, we put that economy in order! We once see that half or a third of Latvia's population lives outside... Let's do it! I want to give a few words to the hall. Some people. Remember, some gentlemen, who come here sometimes and talk about personalities. The losers talk about people, the lucky talk about ideas. Let's stop talking about personalities in this pub!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U27	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U28	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to turn to the Group Unity President. We have listened to the speech of the Group member, Mr Spolitis. You have a good tradition introduced that you are to all good call. I suggest that you listen to me if not to Mr. Zarina, if not to Mr. Spolitis' encouragement that everything is in order, not yesterday... In the opinion of the Minister for Agriculture on the criminal necessity of the OIC for the country... Please, please, your... Next Thursday... So make a public call, which we promise to support - call on your Ministry of Economic Affairs to end the OIC area. ( A PASSENGER’S WORDER) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U29	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur have anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Mr. Spolish, nothing to add? Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jeļenas Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons' request to the Minister for Economics Arvils Aseradens about the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question No.373/J12 and the Ministry of Economics' failure to justify compliance with the regulatory requirements when assessing compliance with the conditions set out in “OIC permits”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, against - 42, refraining - 4. The request is rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U30	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Management of Public Shares and Capital Companies” (No 1145/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined this draft law for second, final, reading. A total of six proposals were received. 1. - the proposal of the commission responsible for the operation of the public electronic media and the connection with the law on the public person... The Commission was supported to avoid contradictions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U32	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U34	3. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U35	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U36	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U38	And 5. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U39	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U40	Six more. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U41	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U42	Thank you. Consequently, all six proposals have been examined. I call on you fellow Members to support this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U43	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fisheries”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U44	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fishing” (No 1151/Lp12). These amendments were prepared in order to limit activities in the Gulf of Riga. This issue was addressed in the context of the building-ship in Saka municipality of Pāvilosta municipality. It was envisaged that changes were made to the Fishing Law by imposing restrictions on the shore-side chafer for wintering, construction and repair of boats and vessels, as well as for the installation of fishermen and water tourism settlements, which must not be contrary to the planning of the municipality’s territory. These restrictions were assessed by the Commission, the opinions of various ministries were heard, including the opinions of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the opinions of state institutions, and it was concluded that these restrictions will limit honest fishermen more than such cases on a house-ship. Following a major debate in the Commission, it was decided not to move forward or support these amendments. And the government also decided this week that this issue should be dealt with differently, so as not to create unnecessary administrative barriers and obstacles for honest fishermen to do their work, as they have done for years. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission, my fellow Members, I call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U45	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U46	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! This proposal was prepared by the National Association in cooperation with the MoEPRD. And the essence is that the construction and repair of ships could only be in places marked in the plans of local authorities... not simply contradicting the plans of local authorities. It must be acknowledged that the law may have a small limit on other activities in the liner, and if the law was adopted at first reading, the draft law would also have to submit, at second reading, clarifications which would remove these other additional restrictions, as they are not necessary. At the same time, this basic objective that ships can only be built in their designated places should be supported by us, so I call for the draft law to be supported at first reading, while the other things can be prevented at second reading. Of course, the Commission actually promised that this particular ship... will be able to meet other objectives, in a different way, and it will not be there in the summer. It may be that this is the case, but if we reject this draft law, then we will not have sufficient legislative means to guarantee it. I therefore call for support at first reading, but for all the restrictions to be imposed on fishermen and on other things that may indeed be there - these could be removed at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U47	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U48	Undoubtedly, legislation on this issue has to be arranged, but the way it is now being done is suddenly urgent, only after one occasion trying to do something is, in principle, wrong. That is why we in the Commission did not support such a draft law and we call on the Saeima not to support it, because it is completely absurd what is happening now. Such practices should in principle not be in a parliament that thinks about the quality of its work. That's the point number one. Point number two. On the amendments that we have also spoken about and on the follow-up that we see in the Commission. The best thing would be that these ministries, which are involved, appreciate this situation not only from one point of view... All aspects should be assessed and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy and, possibly, the Ministry of Transport should participate. And we have to come with a common solution that has passed through the Cabinet of Ministers, mutually agreed. Then it comes to us in the Commission and we appreciate it, not now it will be the one who will try to do something. And what's the funnyst thing? These amendments are in the Fisheries Act, but as you know, in this case it has proved that... This building, this ship-house, turns out to be a building. So it will no longer be regulated by the Fisheries Act, but by the Construction Act. Then the question is: what do we want to change now, as a matter of urgency? As a result, the only victims of this situation will be fishermen with their boats. Therefore, colleagues, I call on this absurdity simply not to continue, reject and make officials work and come with a systemic solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U49	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U50	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that we are really talking here about the Fishing Law and that this construction, which is on the shore, does not look like a fishing boat. It looks like a building, and the State Building Control Office has also defined it as a building. And it has a connection with the earth. It is not a boat for fishermen, it has never been meant for fishing, as the owner and author of the building see it. So I think it would be wrong in this case, to say, shoot with a cannon on the sparrows - to take and correct the regulation of the Fishing Act so that no fisherman can do anything in the coastal band (for example, can not pull a boat, replace a board by a boat). It's not normal! We therefore had a very wide-ranging discussion. Undoubtedly, it will be necessary to amend the Construction Law in order to classify these structures more precisely in order to introduce some safety rules for these structures. After all, if there are conditions for ships to have life jackets or some other thing... All its provisions could be incorporated into law. But it does not have to be done by the Fisheries Act. We have to work with the Construction Law, we have to work with the norms where it belongs. And we must not, in this case, impose restrictions on those honest fishermen who have remained in our country. May they continue to work, as they have done so far! I therefore call on my fellow Members not to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U51	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U52	I want to add my voice to what the previous speaker said about shooting those sparrows with a gun. Let me give you an example of life. There is a fishing village - ex-Pliņciems - located in the territory of the municipality of Engure. And there's usually about seven or eight fishermen's boats in summer, small plastic boats, - fins. The municipality has shown in the range of about three to four miles [4 km] one place where you can come by the sea, take a jeep with a trailer, enter the boat into the sea, and, after leaving the sea for two kilometres to one or the other, draw the boat, and hold the boat there. And now it really happens: if a person has to do some minor repairs, he has to do this in the opposite direction: once again, this boat has to move a few kilometres to a place where there is a municipal road and make this minor repairs. Of course, this is not a work of mind. You don't have to despise the absolute inactions of another ministry in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U53	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U54	Colleagues! As early as February, this house-ship was recognised by the State Building Control Bureau as a building. This means that this building, which... turns out yesterday... The Latvian state surveyor has carried out a survey... the building is located on the land of a particular economic operator and not on the land of the State, as previously stated. So this is another factor. But I'll tell you what it is. This building - building-ship, call it what you want - the businessman has promised to remove it by July 1st. This building-ship will disappear, but built-in... the potentially incorporated amendments to the law will remain. This means that, in any case, this will represent an additional administrative burden for those fishermen on this coast... Let's say, we're fishing off the coast of Latvia. And then it's a question of whether such a single case... Is this the right law to deal with this issue? That is why, in this case, I think, the common sense of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has won, and I also call for this draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U55	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U56	Yeah. As I said, the Commission had quite a long and wide-ranging debate on this issue involving experts from various areas. Finally, a vote was taken and the Commission strongly rejected the progress of the draft law. Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, call for no support to be given to the progress of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Fisheries"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 15, for - 69, for - 1. Draft law has been rejected. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the law on the holding of persons in custody, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Zenta Tretjaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U58	Hello, honorable Presidium! Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 6 March of this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Procedures for Holding Detained Persons” (No.1119/Lp12). Four proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U59	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U60	2. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U62	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U64	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U66	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that this draft law be supported at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U67	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on the detention of persons in custody! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U68	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 20 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U69	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U70	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” (No 1100/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has received 38 proposals for this draft law. And now let's see everybody in a row. 1. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U72	2. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U74	Also 3. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U76	4. - Mr Gerhard's proposal. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U78	5. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U80	6. - Mr Gerhard's proposal. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U82	7. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U84	8 / 8 - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U86	9. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U88	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U89	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U90	11. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U91	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U92	12. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U94	13. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U96	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U98	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U99	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U100	16. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U102	17. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U104	18. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U106	19. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U108	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U110	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U112	22. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U114	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U116	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U118	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U120	26. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U122	27. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U124	28. - Mr Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U126	29. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U128	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U130	31. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U132	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U134	33. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U136	34. - Kaspars Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U138	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U140	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U142	37. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U144	And finally 38. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U145	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U146	Thank you. We have therefore examined all 38 proposals. Request, colleagues, to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U147	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U148	Thank you, colleagues. Let us wait until 22 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U149	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U150	Colleagues! See amendments to the Audit Services Act, second reading. For the second reading of the draft law, we have received 11 proposals, which are mainly editorial proposals of a legal nature. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U152	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U154	3. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U155	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U156	4. - the proposal by the commission responsible, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U158	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U160	6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau that received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U162	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U164	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U166	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U168	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U170	And the last one is 11. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U172	We have examined all the proposals submitted for the second reading of the draft law. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U173	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Audit Services”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U174	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 22 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U175	Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 March this year. Dear colleagues, Members Raivis Dzintars, Hosams Abu Meri, Augusts Brigmanis, Andris Morozovs )... she wrote that you can't even read... Armands Krauze asks for the parliamentary sitting to continue until all items on the agenda are discussed. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “There are objections! ” ) There are objections. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 11, for - 1. Decision adopted. The sitting of the Saeima will be held without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “European Economic Area Financial Instrument and Norwegian Financial Instrument Management Law 2014-2021”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U176	Colleagues, we see the draft law “European Economic Area Financial Mechanism and Norwegian Financial Mechanism for the period 2014-2021”. A total of 53 proposals have been received for the second reading. It must be said, though, that many are duplicated and very many are editorial. Proposal No 1 - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U178	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U180	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U182	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U184	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U186	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U188	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U190	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U192	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U194	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U196	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U198	12. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U200	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U202	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U204	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U206	16. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U208	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U210	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U212	19. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U214	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U216	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U218	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U220	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U222	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U224	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U226	26. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U228	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U230	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U232	29. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U234	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U236	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U238	32. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U240	33. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U242	34. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U244	35. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U246	36. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U248	37. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U250	38. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U252	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U254	40. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U256	41. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U258	42. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U260	43. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U262	44. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U264	45. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U266	46. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U268	47. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U270	48. - the proposal by the commission responsible, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commissions. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly... the numbering of the following paragraphs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U272	49. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U274	50. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U276	51. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U278	52. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U280	53. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U282	Colleagues! We have examined all the proposals. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U283	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law on the European Economic Area Financial Instrument and Norwegian Financial Mechanism 2014-2021! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U284	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 22 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U285	Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U286	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Act”. The draft law is proposed with a view to ensuring more efficient procurement in the field of defence and security. Currently, Section 72 of the Energy Law provides for delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure in which merchants provide and provide a safety reserve service for the establishment of state stocks of petroleum products to a certain extent, in order to ensure the supply of petroleum products during periods of energy crisis. The Ministry of Economics shall announce the provision and provision of the above-mentioned margin services once a year, before 1 June of the current year, open tenders and the provisions of the Law on Public Procurement shall apply to the procurement. Amendments to the Energy Law are necessary to expand the choice of procurement procedures, providing for the possibility to implement both the procurement procedures of the Public Procurement Law and the procurement procedures of the Law on Defence and Security. The Law on Defence and Security Procurement provides for ensuring more efficient procurement in the field of defence and security, as well as suitable procurement procedures for a particular area - closed competition, competitive dialogue and negotiated procedure. Additional requirements are also laid down for security of supply to guarantee that the tenderer will also be able to fulfil the contract in times of crisis or armed conflict. Furthermore, paragraph 2 of Paragraph One of Section 44 of the Law on Defence and Security Procurement provides for the possibility to exclude a candidate or tenderer from further participation in a procurement procedure if the contracting entity has received the opinion of the national safety authority that the conclusion of a procurement contract with the candidate or tenderer may pose a threat to national security. It is therefore possible to prevent possible risks in the event of an energy crisis or threat to the country. In view of the objective of the oil reserves service to ensure continuity of energy supply in emergency situations and in the event of an energy crisis (i.e. security of supply and protection of information), the special law applies to the procurement of oil reserves services. Such a solution would allow the country to organise tendering procedures more quickly, as well as to select candidates taking into account the interests of the country's energy security (e.g. by imposing restrictions on the geographical location of the services, requirements regarding the reputation of candidates and other aspects). In addition, a norm shall be included in the draft law, which provides that the shares of the electricity transmission system operator and the objects of the electricity transmission system infrastructure belonging to it shall not be disposed of or used as collateral for the provision of credit or other obligations. It is necessary to adopt the draft law as a matter of urgency to provide an opportunity for the Ministry of Economics to announce in 2018 a procurement for the provision of a security reserve service. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to declare the draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U287	Thank you. Mr. Baloža! Do you want to debate urgency or the draft law? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “On the bill!” ) On the draft law. Please... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “On Urgency!” ) Then about the draft law or the urgency? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: Both! ) The Commission therefore requests that the draft law be declared urgent. ‘ About the urgency, yeah? ‘ Against’! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Balodis: “ Against the Urgency!” ) “ Against” has applied to speak to Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U288	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! I hope Alexei understood what he read there. That would be good, because basically it is said, the colleagues who have led us to debate in the Commission are concerned: why has this draft law come to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption? That question... and I would like to say here that I was in the position not to let Mr Brigmanis lamate because of another rejected request, I would not join Mr Zarins in the question of the capacity of the Ministry of Economics, and so on. But this is about the fact that the officials of the Ministry of Economics are unable to answer multiple questions any time. Why is this draft law in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption? Then I understood, of course, by talking to consultants and so on. But they can't answer any questions. Why is it our commission? It is essentially a matter of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Because in this way, if we are talking about critical infrastructure, we should also look at road issues. I would like to see the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission dealing with road pits. I'd have a lot to say. However, in this situation, at least the officials must think about before coming to the commission and be able to answer questions that are directly within their competence. Thank you. We support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U289	Member Alexey Loskutov has applied for recognition of the draft law as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U290	I can only repeat what concerns urgency. The Ministry of Economy must be able to announce the procurement procedure, so the urgency of the procedure is beyond doubt.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U291	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U292	I repeat the Commission's request that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U293	So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on energy law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U294	Thank you for your support. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U295	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balodis: “I don’t want to speak anymore!” ) So Mr Baloža no longer wants to speak in the debate. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Energy Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U296	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 22 March this year. And second reading, 12 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U297	April 12th. Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 March this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 12 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U298	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Addresses’ (No 1069/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these draft laws at first reading. The amendments provide for clarification within the time limits for the implementation of the electronic address so that the electronic address can be used within the time limits set by the law, and for clarification of certain interim stages of implementation. In particular, the introduction and operation of electronic address information systems with 1 June are foreseen by public authorities, direct public administrations, where the account is activated by 31 May and the mandatory use of the e-address is applied from 1 June. But for a state institution, a state institution that is not subordinate to the Cabinet of Ministers, a derived public person or its institution, as well as a private person to whom the task of public administration has been delegated, the e-address account shall be activated until October 5, 2018. And the mandatory use starts from the moment the public authority activates the electronic address account. Consequently, this clarification or extension of the deadline is necessary in order to make it technically possible to establish a gradual access to an electronic address account in an institution. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that this draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U299	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U300	Thank you, colleagues. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U301	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Official Electronic Address”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U302	Proposals are due by 20 March this year. And consideration at the Saeima sitting on 12 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U303	Thank you. Proposals are due by 20 March this year. Consideration at the Saeima sitting on 12 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Departments of the Republic”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U304	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! The draft law has been drafted by the National Administration and Local Government Commission in close cooperation with the Central Electoral Commission. These amendments are necessary in order to clarify the rules of law, namely to avoid the inaccuracy that we have discovered in previous municipal elections. One of the amendments relates to the fact that the electoral committees are not burdened equally in the districts. Currently, the law provides for seven members to be appointed to the commissions. Our proposal provides that the number of members of the panel may vary from five to seven. There have been cases where, after the election of the new municipality, there have been problems with the election of the chairman of the electoral committee. These amendments to the law provide that this work - the election of the chairman of the electoral district committee - is carried out by the council; the council also approves the members of the electoral committee. And, of course, the third issue, which has not been resolved, is the issue of the financing of people who, in addition to the members of the electoral committee, participate in the work of the electoral committee. Our proposal provides that those people employed by the election committee... not in the performance of their duties, but in the performance of their duties as electoral committees, the remuneration shall be equivalent to that of the members of the electoral committee. On behalf of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, please approve this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U305	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Election Commissions and Electoral Commissions of the Republic of Lithuania! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U306	Please, colleagues, submit proposals for second reading by 20 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U307	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U308	Madam President, very much. Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” (No 1173/Lp12). The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these draft laws at first reading. The norms included in this draft law derive mainly from the problem of the current waste management system in 2017. In the past, amendments were made to the Waste Management Law, which imposed an obligation on waste managers to provide the State Environmental Service with financial security upon obtaining permits for certain management works. In the process of drawing up the draft law, it was found necessary to impose such a requirement also on operators - those who operate with producer responsibility systems. Thus, the draft law provides that the operator operating in the producer responsibility system shall provide and maintain the existing financial security to the State Environment Service for the entire period of application of the exemption from natural resources tax. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The draft law also provides for the reduction of the administrative burden on the payment of taxes, levies, as a single regular deadline for making tax payments, to be set on the 23rd day of the month. Annex 6 clarifies the definition of large-scale electronic and electrical equipment in line with the requirements of the Directive. And there's been a norm... In order to increase consumer motivation to choose environmentally friendly packaging and significantly reduce the consumption of plastic carrier bags, the draft law provides for the abolition of reduced tax rates for packaging from oxodegradable plastic raw material. The Commission, when discussing this draft law with the institutions involved, supported it at first reading. I call on you, my fellow Members, also to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U309	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U310	I propose 20 March this year as a deadline for submitting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U311	Thank you. Proposals are due by 20 March this year. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. Draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “On publication of documents of the former State Security Committee and lighting of the power system of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime” (No 1105/Lp12) until 10 April 2018. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law “On publication of documents of the former State Security Committee and lighting of the power system of the USSR/LPSR occupation regime” (No 1105/Lp12) until 10 April 2018”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not 65, it's 23, it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda is the examination of the own-initiative proposal. Draft decision “On support for further progress of Rail Baltica project”. Member Armands Krauze on behalf of the Commission on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U312	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Saeima European Courts Commission has prepared the Saeima's draft decision on support for Rail Baltica project in order to express clear political support for successful implementation of the project. The creation of Rail Baltica high-speed railway line will be a testament to the development of a truly unified European transport infrastructure and the full integration of Latvia into it. The construction of Rail Baltica is the largest and most ambitious project of the centenary, and it is a completely new railway line which has not been experienced in Latvia since 1937, when the last largest railway lines Riga-Rūjiena and Riga-Ērgļi were built. Within the framework of the project, a new 1435 millimetre railway line, or European Standard Width, will be constructed in the Baltic States. Latvia's isolation from the connections of the trans-European rail network will be stopped. History shows that the Baltic States have so far not implemented many successful projects together. On the contrary! Often, the scrupulous defence of national interests and the inability to find a compromise on behalf of a common objective have put a stop to the realisation of major projects. But now we are looking to the future. At the European Union level, the Rail Baltica project and its scale are also unique. To date, more than two Member States have not participated in the development of infrastructure projects of particular interest. Rail Baltica changes it, so public expectations are high. The Baltic countries must be able to find a common language, agree and work on the project. In this draft decision, the European Affairs Commission invites the Saeima to ask our Cabinet of Ministers to express all necessary support for further progress of Rail Baltica project, as well as to address Lithuanian and Estonian Parliaments, inviting them to support the joint project. In order to reduce the uncertainty about the project, clear support from the Saeima should be sought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U313	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U314	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! As the rapporteur said, Rail Baltica is an important joint project from three countries. Perhaps in the future it could become a joint project of five countries, including Poland and Finland. The project has been a continuous focus of the Baltic Assembly, interparliamentary cooperation organisations of the three Baltic States since initiation. Every time there have been problems in the coordination or initiation of this project, the Baltic Assembly has responded promptly to the question of the expression of support for this project. And this is also the case this time, when information appeared at the beginning of this year that the problems in the management structures of Rail Baltica could in some way jeopardise the further implementation of this project. What I can say is that the Sub-Committee on Foreign Affairs, in its meeting on 7 March, together with the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, discussed the situation and came to the end of this meeting, was aware of the need to take all necessary steps to provide support - including parliamentary support, including support from governments - for the further implementation of this project and to try to eliminate all the misunderstandings and disagreements that have arisen in connection with the implementation of this project. The Presidium of the Baltic Assembly is the institution that has the opportunity to respond to such situations more operationally than the agenda of our Saeima and the roll of agenda of the Saeima. The Bureau of the Baltic Assembly has already sent a letter to all three Baltic Prime Ministers signed by the President of the Baltic Assembly and the two Vice-Presidents of the Baltic Assembly on 2 March of this year, and the letter highlights that the Rail Baltica project is indeed a project of the Baltic transport infrastructure... North-South direction... an essential highway, which is considered to be one of the elements of this transport system's spine, and that it is very necessary to try... be able to violate the narrow short-term interests that might arise in one of the project implementing countries and look forward to the future, with the prospect that the implementation of this project will provide a completely different opportunity for both passenger transport and even more freight transport for all three Baltic countries, as well as for the neighbouring countries mentioned above - Poland and Finland. In such situations, let us say, the involvement of the Prime Ministers - the involvement of the Prime Ministers of all three countries! - it is absolutely necessary, and that is why a letter with such content, as I have already mentioned, has been sent by the Bureau of the Baltic Assembly to the three Baltic Prime Ministers. So this support initiated by the Saeima's Committee on European Affairs is a step in this direction. Therefore, on behalf of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly and the European Commission for Foreign Affairs... On behalf of the Sub-Commission on European Affairs, not on behalf of the Commission on European Affairs, but on behalf of the Baltic Affairs, I call for support for this proposal to support the further progress of the Rail Baltica project. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “A move or decision?” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U315	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U316	Dear colleagues, It is really clear that there is a problem, but I did not hear the solutions. I will point out to you, in support of this commitment to resolve disputes between partners, that this political statement is not only poorly developed, but that perhaps there may be even greater disputes between the three Baltic countries. In my opinion, such a statement conceals the problems that are clearly visible under the guise. For example, non-compliance with the deadline. The development of the business plan, which had to be concluded in an indicative way last year, has only started in January this year. The absence of communication strategies from the management side shows both the shareholders' vote and the concerns expressed by the Lithuanian Minister of Energy in the public space about the management style of Rail Baltica and the possibility to work together until the autumn of this year... Colleagues, this project is supervised by the Commission of European Affairs at the Saeima. I believe that the task has not been fulfilled. The Rail Baltica project has not been properly monitored. The urgent decision supported is not a solution to the situation. It is a political statement that simply provides Mrs Rubes with political backs and, in a very non-diplomatic way, sets up parliaments from other countries. Members, have you received, today, an explanation from Mrs Rubes, of what has really happened, in your decision? And why is the European Commission threatening us to withdraw funding because of the deterioration in our relations? Do you know how Mrs Rubes will be able to resolve the dispute by 21 March this year, so that this project does not lose out? No, we don't know. And that means that the monitoring work within the European Affairs Commission has not been carried out. And that also means that you, colleagues, are expected to have a simple potting. Will this decision help to resolve any disputes that have arisen? I don't think so. Will this decision call on Baibu Rubes to seek a solution? I don't think so. What I am saying is that we will call on the Cabinet to seek a solution for the parties involved to this crisis. So if the parties fail to agree, the responsibility for this will rest with the Cabinet? If the project loses funding, then Lithuania and Estonia can blame the Latvian government for it? How acceptable is what is written in this decision? Colleagues, have you read it at all? And, after all, where is consistency in the work of the Saeima and the government? How acceptable is it that, for example, by receiving only hints from other countries, we watch the death of the third largest bank? And how acceptable is it that, when we get a clear position and questions from our neighbours, we pretend to be deaf and do not try to resolve the conflict? If, under the draft decision submitted to the Bureau, you were not to have the personal signature, surname and forename of Mrs Chiganne, would you not be ashamed of your people? Would you be proud of this job, my colleague? I call on you not to support such a poor decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U317	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U318	Hello, dear colleagues! What we are watching is certainly a very new form of cooperation with the Cabinet, because it is forbidden to ask questions, to ask ministers something. Now the position goes out with a position to the Cabinet of Ministers. Undoubtedly, the discussion about Rail Baltica must be very serious. Because the essence of the project is already how this project will function. First of all, will we be able to actually build this project at all? And will we then be able to maintain what will be built? And the ministers were supposed to stand here and answer the questions. Where is the project business plan? I took note of the analysis by several experts of the revenue and expenditure of this project, of the study previously carried out by Ernst&Young and of what the experts have shown by carrying out such analyses... it shows, for example, that the present value of this project is what... minus 300... million euros. This only means that, with this net present value, this project does not even classify as aid for European funds. So that the conversation should be about where this real business plan is going to be, what government policy will be like, so in the circumstances when Latvia still loses its population, when Latvia still loses its cargo in competition... Who will drive these tracks, and who will pay for this project? The citizens are under the illusion that they will quickly be able to reach Europe. Do they know at what cost they will buy these tickets to drive these tracks quickly? So it is a government policy - not only to build rails, but also to take care of the country's demographics, the country's economy. This project, as has been stressed, is also important for security. Perhaps it is also a conversation about how this project fits into some NATO plans. For the times which were after the first world war, when the armoured trains were on the rails, and the rails were therefore important, have long passed. Such objects, if we also look at them from a strategic, protective point of view, have long since ceased to be safe and are very vulnerable. I think that reality also has to look at if someone is building these kinds of illusions here. Therefore, I call: colleagues in the position, ask specific questions and ask specific answers to the Cabinet of Ministers instead of using these forms of the poetic appeal. For anything that is offered for free is only, so to say, cheese is trapped in the mouse, because this project will long afterward also have to be paid for by the public (Minimum.) , rather than being taken care of by other funds or other nations or countries. Latvian society will pay for this, and then those who have made light decisions will also have to answer, without asking today for responsibility for ensuring that the project really is real so that the government will be responsible for the implementation of the project in all aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U319	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U320	Dear colleagues, Here, like last Thursday, there's been a kind of proposal that doesn't mean anything... a decision which, by its very nature, does not impose any obligation but, at the same time, the rejection of this draft decision constitutes an attitude towards the whole of this project, which, by the way, is still not guaranteed... Therefore, I do not see an opportunity to vote differently than in favour. Of course, we also hope that what Mrs Silver spoke about will happen - that risks will indeed be assessed. But I also want to, so to say, put some savings on those risks... And why do I think this project might fail? It was because of the cowardly and uninitiated position of the Latvian Government. For a moment supports leishes, for a moment - Estonians, and there is only hope that this “airport loop” will be supported without reservation. But it is, as they say, already inserted into the trading list, demanding Kaunas-Polia border and Kaunas-Vilņa... but the repayment built, which, in particular, does not meet European standards... Kaunas-Polandn border... Let's say, a railway that's supposed to change anyway... But it's already invested, and the lilies already want to get that money back from this project. And, of course, they would like to connect those cities - Kaunas and Vilnius - and its airports, and both of them economic habus for this money. The Estonians also have grand plans for the tunnel, which they would like to connect to, to Helsinki; this is, of course, not loudly expressed, but... There's also talk about Salaspils... the great criticism of a logistics centre, as they say, which could only slow down, just like its ‘airport loop’... And in the vicinity of Salaspils... Possible logistics centre close to the Daugava crossing - all this... There's trade going on for nothing. I would very much like to think that we simply do not know how cunning the position of our Prime Minister and our Ministers responsible for this matter is, but I think that it is a final accompaniment that we do not know here in the Saeima, and that when we raise this issue and deal with this issue, the European Commission has not called either the Minister of Transport or the Prime Minister to tell us how he is going. Because there really is a possibility that this project will not exist at all. And it is not about who will go there, what troops, where and where to, but actually this is a project that we have already defined, that, behold, three Baltic countries are able to cooperate not only on humanitarian issues, but also on economic issues and such a known transnational cooperation. It is a great surprise for those who still remember the Rail story of the Angels and other examples of rather fierce competition between us and the leishes, for us and for the Estonians. The question is, therefore, too serious to be left to the government when it shows absolute vigour to tell the people, the public and also the parliament what they are actually doing, but they are not actually doing.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U321	Name to Member Anry Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U322	Madam President, Dear colleagues, I have also been working on this project for some time, and I am probably the first to sign a joint venture agreement. Perhaps I would like to dispel the myths of our colleagues about the importance of this project. First of all, there is already an economic justification. As we all know, these investments are carried out with the support of the European Union. The aid intensity is 80-85%. And for this project to be economically sound at all, this intensity could even be much lower. Consequently, we will not need to repay the investment, and this is to a large extent an investment by the European Union to connect the Baltic region to a common Europe. And that is very important. We can talk about various other risks: will there be cargo, will there be passengers, or does the so-called airport loop even be needed? I would like to say that if this so-called airport loop were not available, then this project would hardly be implemented at all, because, as we know, Riga Airport, with which we are all proud, is the largest in the Baltic region - with the fastest growth and fastest development. Why do we not want to ensure even more growth and make it even more efficient for this airport if passengers could get here within one and a half hours from Kaunas or Tallinn? We would thus further strengthen our transport and aviation sector. And it is not just a connection for the Baltic people - it is for all of us! The more passengers, the more destinations! The more airlines, the more opportunities our own people will have to move, fly and reach other countries. It will also be a very good opportunity for business to develop if this connectivity is ensured. Saying about Rail Baltica itself - this is undoubtedly the biggest investment project ever in Latvia. And it's not just rails or rails, it's all the associated infrastructure. It's infrastructure... For example, there will be no single level crossing in Riga, so everything will be rebuilt, arranged and made much more convenient. This is also very important from the point of view of order. You will certainly many have seen also this visualization as it will look like. It's not an existing banite or existing electric trains, moving at 80 kilometres per hour, it's a completely new, modern infrastructure that really... For which nobody will be ashamed of. Talking about passengers. It is not just an opportunity for Latvians to reach Berlin or Warsaw. It is not only an opportunity for citizens of Tallinn to get to Kaunas, but it will also be an opportunity for local transport. For example, there will be an opportunity to get from Salacgriva to Riga in 40 minutes, which is very convenient. And it will also be a great support for internal traffic. And again we will all benefit. Once again, the whole country will benefit. Every citizen will be a winner. Finally on the loads. Today, I have been reading the news that rail freight transport has fallen by 15 percent again in two months. Clearly, this old transit corridor is no longer working. The volume of cargo falls. We are all very well aware of what our country as a whole means by the transit sector, which is about GDP growth, which is about employment. In total, there are 80,000 people working in the transport sector in the country. That's about 10 percent of gross domestic product... And we're just looking at those indicators: how everything is falling and falling and falling... The creation of this railway will enable us to diversify freight flows, and will enable us to introduce new services, namely combined transport, say, from the east to the old 1520 millimetres railway, combined with the new 1435 millimetres railway, thus creating logistics centres for the growth of the sector. That is an opportunity for us. This is indeed an opportunity for us to ensure the growth of the transit sector, which is essential for our country when we look at the statistics that we see today. Finally, the draft decision itself. Clearly, the draft decision is an invitation. Invite - that is what we can do. We can express our attitude. We, the Saeima, can express our attitude - that this project is important for our country, that this project is important for our country - and we can do everything to make this project work. Despite the differences between the various project promoters, managers, neighbouring countries and local workers. We can express our attitude: this project is politically important to us! I really believe that this project is very important to us politically and I call, colleagues, on us to evaluate this project... and support at least this call so that the success of the project is not jeopardised. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity is a circle of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U323	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U324	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Of course, there may be different opinions, but there should be no unsubstantiated opinions from the finger. The Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly devoted a special meeting to meeting with Ms Rubesa, our shareholders and representatives of the Ministry of Transport. And they all confirmed that these will come, the suspicion that the Rail Baltica project is under threat and could collapse, is greatly exaggerated. The dangers are other: that a single, centralised model of the management of this project can be replaced by multi-polar management at the level of all the Baltic States. Both the Latvian side and the European Commission are of the opinion that such management would be ineffective, costly and should be avoided. There is such a danger! But with regard to the concern that the project will stop, all three experts I mentioned confirmed that there is no such danger. There is also the danger that we can lose another payment from the European Commission, thus prolonging the development of the project. There is also such a danger. However, this is not the end of this vital project for the Baltic States. Dear colleagues, The Baltic Assembly, as well as the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, all of us who are there work all the time... our activities relate only to the promotion of cooperation between the Baltic States, and we have always stood up for the faster development of this project. However, we cannot take the position of the Latvian Parliament on this matter out of our finger. And that is why it is so important for the European Affairs Commission to give us this opinion, this instrument, with which our Head of Delegation, Mr Vucana, will shortly be going to the International Forum on Rail Baltica, to be held in Tallinn! And on 19-20 April in Vilnius, we will be taking part in the meeting of the Committee on Economics, Energy and Innovation of the Baltic Assembly to discuss these traffic issues as well and take this initiative forward. So what do we break our hair about here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I call on us to support this document and to give us this tool for further work. ( A Fraction’s Unity is a circle of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U325	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U326	Dear President, Honourable Members! Some of the most recent news about this project. A few days ago, a joint project was signed between Norway and Finland on the construction of the Kirkene logistics centre, which will link this logistics centre further to the railway lines to Helsinki and also to other Scandinavian sites. The second project that is currently under development is the tunnel between Helsinki and Tallinn, whose total value is estimated at around 15 billion at this point in time, and it is estimated that it will pay off over a few years, as this cumulative effect is being carried out here by bringing together two cities. Why Kirkenes? Because the first cargoes from China have already been taken into the Arctic Ocean, which is not frozen. So this northern route, which slows down 40 percent of freight from Japan, Korea and China to Europe, along the Arctic Ocean, brings enormous savings. And so we should no longer regard this project as a connection between the Baltic States and Poland, for example, with Berlin, but only as a smaller part of this grand logistics project, the cost of which will perhaps amount to a hundred billion in the future. But this project will in any case pay off. Another interesting thing now is about resistance to this project and its strategic importance. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And some of your friends know it very well... I'm saying everybody doesn't know... There was a huge opposition against this project from a strategic point of view. Why? I remember that in 2003-2004 the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia elected observers to the European Parliament. We were not yet in the European Union, but we were working on commissions without voting rights. A Baltic Cooperation Group was set up in 2003 to support this project. So 15 years have passed. In 15 years, three such projects could already be implemented! It was braked in the first stage in every way. Why? Because this project has a huge military role, it makes it possible to move military cargo very quickly from the north to the south and in the opposite direction, and it plays a very important role in the strategic protection of both Northern Europe and the Baltic States, also taking into account the whole geopolitical and security situation. So you're told that there's nothing to pay back here or that there could be some other options here... I call on it to be supported and aware that it is indeed a real project that will forever involve the Baltic States in this European geopolitical... In the geopolitical space of Western Europe, from which we will be very difficult to remove in the future. Thank you for your attention. And I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U327	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U328	Madam President, Members! Well, of course, this is an ambitious project that has also gone a long way. As a railway trainer, I grew up by the railway and also studied at the 11th Arodskola, or professionally technical railway trainer school in Riga. And already in 1975 we had pictures on the walls - we dreamed that there would soon be a high-speed R-200. The same train, the pictures of which we had already been in 1975, is now driving... Only the Russians built it, and it drives between Moscow and St. Petersburg. So we could produce and build that train here in our Riga Vagon construction plant. We missed it because we destroyed this factory. But now our delegation is going to Uzbekistan. I also call for a high-speed train from Tashkent to Samarkand - there they were built in a very short time and are still building from Tashkent to Buchar. Maybe it's already opened... I don't know... the route... But here we think about how to connect those 600 kilometres between the three Baltic States and develop it all. Will it be economically or will it not be economically? Now we need to look forward! We can at best take the time at the end of 2024 or in 2025 with this train to Berlin or Paris or to Warsaw. But, as we were told by the Commission on European Affairs, this railway is intended not only for the carriage of passengers but also for the transport of goods; it is much more effective. And the cash flow associated with this project will increase much more. Look at Riga! Much needs to be done in Riga too: to reconstruct a railway station, bus station, build a new bridge, new tunnel in Torņakalns or at Agenskalns... Here, in the project, almost already agreed... By the end of the year, it is necessary to harmonise and complete their design and to sign the contract so that the implementation starts in the following year. I allow that project to cost 20 percent more than currently estimated. You see for yourself that everything is changing fast. Look at all those construction processes! Look at what it was two years ago and what it is now! Nothing can be planned ahead. But if we've been talking to our neighbors for a long time, whether we need or don't... some need more to figure out whether they're going on the same train from Kaunas to Vilnius and back, whether it's a separate train, or whether we change its tracks - let's put those new rails or not... then we will lose that European money. Then we'll have to wait two or three years before we get a line so that we can take part in that project. Unfortunately, in the European Union, we have already been told many times: "think what you want from the beginning and come to us with the project!" You don't have to trick. We remember very well how that train purchase project ended. Not with anything! It didn't end with anything! So that I support this project. If someone does not like the words recorded in that call, we can write again... accept the other. But it is just a document for the Baltic Assembly to work more actively. I call on all the Baltic speculators to negotiate, and also at the Prime Minister level, to actively negotiate at ministerial level, to seek compromise and to make the project move forward. Let us not show the European Union that there is no unity between us - the three Baltic countries! Thank you. ( The internouncing from the Group Unity: “Thanks! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U329	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U330	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft decision on support for further progress of the Rail Baltica project.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U331	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On support for further progress of Rail Baltica project”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision „On rejection of 10 139 collective application of Latvian citizens “On adoption of the Law on Cohabitation in Latvia””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U332	Thank you, Presidium. Dear colleagues, Members! On January 15, 2018, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 139 Latvian citizens “On the adoption of the Cohabitation Law in Latvia”. On January 31, the Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima heard an authorised representative of the applicants who justified the suggestions made in the application that they would be legally recognised as a family and would receive national protection, as well as equality between spouses and unmarried couples. The applicants argued that it would also apply to same-sex couples, because Latvia is too small to discriminate against someone. At the same time, it was clarified that co-habitants would be able to solve many of the legal problems caused by the shortcomings of the current legal framework. Data from the study of the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia in 2014 were reported that 70 percent of Latvians support co-habitation without marriage, and data from the study of the Reconnaissor Coordination Centre in 2015 that almost half of Latvian children are born out of marriage. Applicants emphasize that according to the list drawn up by the Ministry of Justice, several dozen contracts should now be concluded in co-habitation without marriage so that unmarried persons can take medical decisions in their relations if the partner is in an accident, receive their partner's right to care in the event of disability, as well as in the event of death of the spouse, to receive tax relief and support from the state or municipality. Applicants reported that this application was designed to fulfil the condition of Article 110 of the Satversme to protect the family, whatever it may be. Article 110 of the Satversme provides that the State shall protect and support marriage - union between a man and a woman, family, parents and children's rights. The Commission prepared two draft decisions after hearing all the applicants’ requests and following an application. At its meeting on 7 March 2018, the Commission decided by a majority not to proceed with the initial assessment of the collective application by the Commission for terms of reference, ethics and applications. Thus, on the basis of the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission prepared a draft decision on the rejection of the collective application “On the adoption of the Law on Co-Life in Latvia” and decided to direct it to consideration at the sitting of the Saeima today.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U333	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On rejection of the 10 139 collective application “On the adoption of the Law on Cohabitation in Latvia””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 18, for - 4. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. However, I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today. Member of the Minister of Health of Klementyeva, Potapakina, Rubika, Cileviča and Orlova “On extending the scope of medical treatment in the provision of rehabilitation services”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response because he is on vacation. On the question of Member Klementyeva, Ribakova, Orlov, Morozova and Adamson, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis about the implementation of the project “E-health in Latvia”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response because he is on vacation. On the question of Member Lazareva, Morozova, Zarina, Pimenova and Potapkin, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, about quality control of education and the competitiveness of the education system. The question was referred to Minister of Education Karl Shadurskis. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. On the question of Member Zarina, Urbanovich, Rubika, Tutina and Potapkin to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On Compliance of the Action of the Government of the Republic of Latvia with the People’s Interest of Latvia in Implementation of the System of Support of Subsidized Electricity”. The question was referred to the Member of the Prime Minister, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. The written responses are not satisfactory. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to a pre-planned working schedule. On the question of Member Zariņa, Potapkina, Rubika, Tutina and Raimonds Rubika, Minister for Economics, Arvilas Aseradens, about inspection of subsidised power plants by the Ministry of Economics, their objectivity and their relevance to the public interest’. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to a pre-planned working schedule. Members' questions have been received. Members Silver, Kūtris, Stepanenko, Mežeckis and Balodis have submitted a question to Members on the reform of cash registers, which is submitted to the Minister for Finance for a reply. Members Viļums, Krūmiņš, Kleinberga, Ruks and Melgailis submitted a question to Members “On the justification of the Ministry of Economics by removing permissions to sell electricity in the framework of mandatory procurement for renewable energy cogeneration power plants”. Name for motivation to Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U334	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! A week ago, we were able to listen carefully to what Minister Arvil Asheraden said. And it was said that almost 17 cogeneration power plants have eliminated their licences. We therefore want to clarify with our question how many licences have been withdrawn or cancelled and who have taken this decision (i.e. who the experts have done). And we also want to know the exact number of claims relating to withdrawn licences submitted to the courts by these operators. Please provide precise figures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U335	Thank you. The question shall be referred for a reply. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “On procedure!” ) The name of the procedure for the Member Ivars Zarins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Ivar, we talked!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U336	I would like to draw attention to the fact that a wrong statement has just been made about answering questions. In particular, with regard to the question put to the Prime Minister about the compatibility of the OIC system with the public interest, the Minister for Economic Affairs has not replied in writing. He has replied in writing that he will give an oral answer. And just we learned that he couldn't come to answer. This means that no reply has been given at all. That's a violation of the Saeima roll. I invite you to respond to this.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U337	The written reply from the Saeima Administration indicates that the respondents are not satisfied because they consider that it has not been provided. The Minister informs that he cannot attend the oral response due to a pre-planned working schedule. Thank you for your information. Dear colleagues, Time to register presence. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, Today's 79th birthday is celebrated by our fellow Member Andris Buics. We welcome him! (Applause) Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the reading of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U338	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Inese Aizstrauta, Aija Barča, Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Lolita Čigāne, Līga Kozlovska, Aivars Meija, Valdis Skujiņš and Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-03-15-PT12-473-U339	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
