ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! We will start the meeting on 15 February 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, we are honoured that today we will be addressed at the Saeima sitting by John Berkov, President of the House of Representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, who visits Latvia on an official visit. The high British visit to the centenary of Latvia is significant and symbolic. Britain has a historically important role - Britain was the first to recognise Latvia's independence in November 1918. (Applause) A hundred years ago, our security space was united and it is now, we are strengthening Baltic security together, as a hundred years ago. Britain is, and will remain, an important partner for Latvia in strengthening its security, economy, common values and democracy. After Brexit, we will no longer have the opportunity to work together at European Union level, so we need to act deliberately to develop close bilateral relations, including between the parliaments of both countries. Mr. Excellence Berkov, your name is you!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U2	Madam President, Thank you very much for your kind introductory words. Honourable Members, I have a great honour and I am truly pleased that I am only the second President of the House of Representatives, who has had the opportunity to address this honourable Parliament. Before I start talking about Latvia, the United Kingdom and our mutual relations, I want to talk about something quite different. Outside political action, dear Members, my greatest sporting passion, and that is really a great passion, there is tennis. You are here at the Saeima and the whole people of Latvia are definitely very proud of Jelen Ostapenko, who has become the winner of the French Open Championship single-game tournament and the sixth rocket of the world at the age of 20. Last year I had the great honour of receiving him with the Ambassador of Latvia to London at my residence in Westminster Castle. I would like to tell you that Jeļena Ostapenko is a really nice champion! And she is an excellent ambassador to your country in the world. My visit time has coincided very favourably. For your country, this is an important year of celebration and commemoration. In November of this year, free and independent Latvia will celebrate its centenary. This is a fact that you can really be proud of and that, if I may say so, highlights the close links between our two countries as well. We were the first in the United Kingdom to recognise the new Republic of Latvia in November 1918; we expressed our official support to it in 1921; in 1940 we renewed it; we never, for a moment, did not recognise the repression of Latvia by the Soviet regime in the next five decades; and we were one of the first countries to reopen their Embassy here in 1991. These are not only interesting facts of history; they are interesting to me and, I hope, interesting to you, colleagues, but even more so, they are part of an unfailing, essential and unique relationship between our countries. The courage and sacrifice of this relationship has been even closer: from those days in Liepaja, when the vessel Saratov was guarded, on which was the temporary government of Karlis Ulmanis, was on board, and during October 1919, during the period of Riga's defense, HMS Dragon crew efforts were made until 1940, when the then Ambassador of Latvia in London, Karlis Zariņš, was granted extraordinary status, which allowed him to represent the people of Latvia in Western Europe during the period of invasion, occupation and oppression, and he fulfilled this task excellently and truly amazingly. Our countries are also united by George Armitstead's life and work. He was the most creative and innovative, and the most famous mayor of Riga in the first decade of the 20th century. In fact, the United Kingdom and Latvia are united in many, much closer links than it might seem at first sight to the European map. We need to respect this relationship, and in future, even more so than ever, we need to take care of it and develop it. There is also a lesson that we should always remember. It is Latvia's destiny, it is quite a decision - to be at the forefront of this continent's struggle for freedom. And so it is now, just as it was before. That is why we must stand and stand side by side with the people of your country. History of the past century leads to the following conclusion: the freedom of the state and people of Latvia or captivity is a litmus test that proves how free or free the whole of Europe is. This is the central role of your country and you must not underestimate it. (Applause) I would like to make it even more clear: if Latvia is not free, then it is also impossible for a fully free Europe. It would be more than imperfect. It would be pointless. If institutions like your great Saeima could not work here, then, in fact, every one of us would be vulnerable anywhere on our common planet. My dear Members! I think that this message is more important than ever. It goes beyond relatively tactical issues, although important but relatively tactic issues such as the UK's membership of or withdrawal from the European Union. This message was significant already before we joined the then European Economic Community in 1973 and it will remain just as important, perhaps even more important, after we have left this union. Democracy in today's Europe is much more important than all short-term considerations. Before you pay tribute to the events of November 1918, the mandate of this parliamentary term will end in November this year and free and fair elections will take place; it will be a serious competition for ideas and individuals. The result is not expected, it is taking place in democratic, free and fair elections. The outcome is not expected and the electoral oversight bodies are independent. Democracy will be implemented not only formally but truly and in what way it should be. However, near your borders, there are other, seemingly different elections this year, which do not even meet the standards of democracy. All of us should worry about this. Colleagues and friends! It seems that we are living not only in a time of false news but also in a time of false democracy. This sad fact leads us to be very vigilant. This also means learning from history and working more closely in the name of the future. Our nations seem to be different, but in many ways they are quite or surprisingly similar. We are at various points in European civilisation, but by our culture we are very European. Our peoples have been hardened by the sea, both of which are characterised by curiosity. We value unconventional solutions. We admire unshakable determination. We respect education. And more than all of us, our independence is expensive. During my short visit I seem to have covered and really been able to assess the importance that you Members attach to NATO as the basis of your security and the guarantee of your independence. Therefore, President-in-Office, it is a real pleasure for me to address this Saeima and, through it, the amazing spirit of the Latvian people. I have enjoyed your hospitality, professionalism and friendship in less than 48 hours. I appreciate it and would be happy to reward you with the same. I wish you, dear friends, on behalf of the whole House of Representatives of Great Britain - and I really say this from the heart - all their best and give you clear support for your national awakening of the centenary! In conclusion, I would like to express my hope and belief that in 2918 the President of the House of Representatives about two hundred and fifty years ago (I will certainly not be) will certainly be here to greet Latvia during its thousand years of independence. Colleagues and friends! Thank you very much for your generous hospitality, for this honor shown to me to speak to you! I wish you the best, both for individuals and for the whole parliament and for the whole government, and more than anything, I wish every citizen of Latvia all the best in the distant, distant future! Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U3	Dear colleagues, We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. Changes tabled to the agenda of the Bureau meeting The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Reports by the Bureau. On the draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Transport Services” presented by the Member Jānis Dombrava, Edvina Šnores, Raivja Dzintars, Einars Cilinska, Gaida Berzins and Rihards Kola be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, One principle must be universal, indisputable and indisputable, which must be respected by the state power of Latvia. And it is that never, under any circumstances in Latvia, its citizens must not be placed in a discriminated position vis-à-vis foreigners. If such a situation arises, the legislators have an immediate moral obligation to remedy the situation. You can discuss how to do it better. You can argue about details. But there can be no justification for maintaining discrimination because of the lack of a common understanding of politicians. It is this situation that exists in the capital of Latvia. A Latvian citizen at the pre-retirement age, for example, at the age of 62, buys a public transport ticket, but a Russian or Belarusian citizen can use it for free in Riga already at the age of 55. If such a situation does not embarrass the voter, then colleagues, for most of the voters present, I think there is something to be said about it. According to data from the Central Statistical Administration, in 2017, approximately 50,000 third-country nationals lived in the Republic of Latvia. Among them, some 35 thousand are over 55 years of age, about half of them live in Riga, where pensioners can drive free of charge. Our proposed amendments to the Law on Public Transport Services complement Article 14 and provide that fares would not apply to foreigners, except for citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, as well as stateless persons who have a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Latvia. We also allow for discussions at second reading on nuanced wording, but it is clear that the problem needs to be addressed and that it needs to be done as soon as possible. Please support the transfer of the project to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U5	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? And the objections. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Public Transport Services to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 66, it's 22, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima shall propose that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the Legal Commission “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Nunozole, will you talk about it or... Is that so? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U6	I would like to thank you very much for opening up this law. But what do I want to add? If we want to sort out the judiciary, we need to open up another law relating to the remuneration of officials so that the best of the lawyers will be motivated to become judges. A great request to those who opened the law “On Judicial Power” to open this law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Julija Stepanenko from 6 February to 8 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Julija Stepanenko requesting her unpaid leave from 6 February to 8 February of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 8 February this year, Andrejs Judys was given unpaid leave to a Member. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Andrejs Judine to grant him unpaid leave on 8 February of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the re-reading of the law. Law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement’. Dear colleagues, On 9 February this year, the President of Latvia has sent the Saeima for re-reading the law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” adopted by the Saeima on 1 February this year. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is responsible for this law. The Saeima shall set a deadline for the submission of proposals according to the rule of the Saeima, as well as the date when the law is re-examined at the Saeima sitting. Dear colleagues, Who will speak on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy? Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U8	Colleagues! We will wait until 30 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U9	And the timing of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U10	Review time - April 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U11	April 19, Thursday, do you think? Or, on April 20, in an emergency sitting? April 19th Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 30 March this year, the parliamentary session - on 19 April this year. On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Opinion of the Appeals Board On the agenda - request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Jeļenas Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimirs Nikonovs and Jānis Adamsons to the Minister of Economics Arvils Asheraden "On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question No. 370/J12 and the avoidance of the Minister of Economics to provide information about the actual composition of the "control group" set up by EM and its real tasks in order to carry out checks on individual operators' power plants for which permissions to sell their electricity in the framework of mandatory procurement have been issued". Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U12	Good morning, colleagues! The Panel continues to look at questions related to the Ministry of Economy's replies to Members' questions. The parliamentary agenda for today's sitting is a concrete request made by our colleagues Ivars Zarins, Jeļena Lazareva, Arthur Rubiks and others. This request was examined at the Commission meeting. It was found that these issues were further examined. In order to reach a final conclusion, we need to look at the results of this examination. Consequently, the specific request has been rejected. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Last time, August!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U13	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U14	Hello, colleagues! As you know, this is another request to the Minister for Economic Affairs. And so that you understand the substance of this demand, just like a series you need to remind you of what has been in previous series. In the past, the Minister of Economics was asked about certain aspects of the OIC Afero, which demonstrate the true role of the Ministry of Economics throughout this Affort. In particular, the fact that the stations were in fact not under control; the fact that the Ministry of Economics, when issuing its authorisations, did not at all base itself on the usefulness, real meaning and purpose criteria why this process had been initiated and why it should have been carried out; the fact that critical aspects were not controlled to determine whether the economic operator fulfilled the conditions for authorisation granted to it and qualified for aid. We also found this out, and the Ministry of Economics itself acknowledged that it has not done so and that this control regime is not appropriate. In particular, this request was not simply about the verifications but about who carried out these verifications. Because, as you remember, as soon as it happened... As soon as this possible fraud was discovered by journalists, its Ministry of Economics came with a loud statement that it was a fraud and that checks would be carried out on a full perimeter. Later it turned out... And that was when? September or October. Later, this complete perimeter of 400 stations was reduced to 39 stations. What can we say in the context of this demand? Why did this request arise? We asked the Minister for Economic Affairs a simple question - in our opinion, simple and logical! - to make sure that at last the Ministry of Economics will really start this control in the public and state interest and that it really is going to control something. We asked very simple things. That is to say, first of all, give us this order so that we can be sure of what the real task is for this control group and which it will specifically examine. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer. (See the box below.) One thing to do is check out. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “He is right!” ) What is the composition of this control group? It is very important to understand whether this control group really... If one thing is clearly declared, which will be checked, then the other thing - it should be certain that people in this control group are in general able to carry out this control and have an incentive to do so. For, look, it might turn out that many of those who seem to be under control are inspecting these stations, in fact they have made decisions themselves, the execution of which they now have to verify. It would seem logical that the Ministry of Economics does indeed carry out this verification in the public interest in order to detect and not cover possible irregularities. And it would be normal for the Ministry of Economics to submit all this information. The Ministry of Economics refused to submit this information, which is another additional proof that all the activities of the Ministry of Economics are now more focused, not on discovering this area, but, in fact, on covering it. This is also reflected in the behaviour of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the replies given by the Commission for Requests. Consequently, the Ministry of Economics, despite a specific request from Members, has still refused to submit its decision No 202 establishing this control group. Colleagues! Can you imagine such a situation in the real device of parliamentary democracy in Latvia?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The executive refuses to submit its order to the supreme decision-making power - the delegated decision-making power of the nation! And that is the real situation in our country today, which I understand most Members are ready to accept. It's completely absurd! The Ministry of Economics refused - refused! - submit the composition of that control group on the grounds that it is likely to interfere with the control group. The question is very well-founded: how could this be hindered if Members were to have the chance to be convinced that this control group is working with appropriate competence and is not in conflict of interest? What is hidden here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This was not answered by the Ministry of Economy. The Ministry of Economics argued that it could disclose the composition of the control group after the end of the control group, at the end of the inspection. But when we found out how it was actually checked... When the end of the work came to an end, it turned out that it would never take place. This means that the composition of this control group will never be known. And they will never know what they have actually done there, because the delegated task is hidden from Members. Then the Ministry of Economics was asked: “Well, who will answer all these questions? Are you ready to take responsibility?’ And here was given a very precise and mystical answer that... specifically the question - who and how will be responsible for the relevance of the results of the control team and its authenticity - was answered: "The control group is set up by the Ministry of Economics, and its responsibility lies with the officials of the Ministry of Economics." In particular, who will answer? The Ministry of Economy desperately avoided calling it. Question: "Why?" If the Ministry of Economics takes on this responsibility and is convinced that this group is competent and does what needs to be done, then why hide who will actually answer? More! What's even more interesting is that the responsibility, as they cut it right away... that will have to be held liable under the Law on Disciplinary Liability of State Civil Service Officials. What's interesting? If you look at the context in which the Ministry of Economics was asked: “And what will be the responsibility of the control group itself if it has not been able to provide competent and true information on the results of the inspection?” What did the Ministry of Economics answer? That external legislation does not distinguish between the responsibility of the control group. Consequently, the general scheme applicable under the previous reply is applicable. That is, it is only about the fact that the control group will not be responsible for anything at all. Liability will be determined only in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on Disciplinary Liability of State Civil Service Officials. This means that if they are not officials, they will not answer anything at all. Colleagues, if we now put together the fact that the real task of this control group is hidden from the public, the composition of this control group, the competence of this control group, whether or not the control group is in conflict of interest... If, after all, it is then said that the control group, as we found out, will not be responsible for anything, no matter what results... Well, colleagues, do you think what the Ministry of Economics is doing? Do all the actions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs aim to uncover this OIC, to minimise the burden of OICs or to actually cover them and to cover up their potentially illegal actions? Because, as we can see, every request shows that the Ministry of Economics has not only covered this area, but has also actively directed it through its own decisions, its own actions and its own omissions. And this request is a concrete proof of it again. More than that. If we look at the answers given by the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the other questions, then... Very specific cases were asked to the Ministry. As you remember, in one of the requests we have clarified - and the Ministry of Economics has been forced to agree - that the critical factor when it comes to whether a cogeneration unit has actually met the permit conditions, or whether it has started to produce electricity in cogeneration, is the issue of heat - the issue of useful heat. The Ministry of Economy agreed to this. However, after being asked what is part of this control group, whether there is someone who is competent to talk about it, the Ministry of Economics avoided replying, and the subsequent responses show that there is no one like this; that the Ministry has attracted a person from the edge. Go on. When it was asked, “Well, how will you actually, physically, make sure of it?” The reply of the Ministry of Economics was as follows: ‘After the survey of the control team, an inspection report is drawn up, which will be signed by all parties.’ So the question is that this control group, so that it can actually make sure that this critical factor is right... As we can see, there is no expert group, but... and the confidence will be obtained by a realistic inspection of the station. However, when the Minister for Economics was asked how many stations actually tested over these four months, it turned out that such stations could count on one hand's fingers... more than one hand's fingers... That is, seven stations, of which only one has actually been tested, but despite this, the Ministry of Economics has already gained full confidence that everything is right there. But it hides again, in what way it has happened. So, colleagues, what do you think? What is happening now, and what is the Ministry of Economics actually doing? It is obvious that the Ministry of Economics is now simply desperately trying to hide its true role in this OIC area. It can be seen that the Ministry of Economics... Each of these requests simply confirms that it was a failure of the ministry. It may have been more than just an act of inaction (it has really been!) , perhaps here we can also talk about very serious corruption, both at political level and at the level of officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Why are such very peculiar, strange decisions made, why has there not been a control system, why has this process never been under control so far? And it is also being hidden as it is being done. As a result, our society as a whole has gained this huge, huge burden and theft of this biggest country - the biggestft in the history of Latvia! - continues. Colleagues! I call for this request to be supported. After all, people must start to be accountable for their actions. Otherwise, our country will simply go where it is now, unfortunately, to a whole bardac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U15	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Request Commission? Therefore, nothing can be added on behalf of the Request Commission. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivara Zariņa, Jeļena Lazareva, Arthur Rubika, Andra Morozova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Jānis Tutina, Raimonds Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vladimir Nikonovs and Jānis Adamson's request to the Minister of Economy Arvilas Aseradenas "On the replies of the Ministry of Economics to the Members' question No. 370/J12 and the avoidance of the Minister of Economics to provide information about the actual composition of the "control group" set up by EM and its real tasks in order to carry out inspections in power plants of individual economic operators that have been authorised to sell their electricity within the framework of mandatory procurement"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 37, against - 38, refraining - 11. The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, The Bureau of the Saeima has received a request from Member Ivara Zariņa, Andra Morozova, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Mirska, Vladimira Nikonova, Igora Zujeva and Vital Orlova to Minister for Economic Affairs Arvilas Aseradens regarding the verification of subsidised power plants by the Ministry of Economics, their objectivity and their relevance to the public interest. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants ask for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U16	Colleagues, this is the current demand that we were forced to prepare. Because if we are talking about these inspections, which seem to continue as though the Ministry of Economics, it turned out that not only the composition of the control group is secret, but also the secret and limited access to what stations are being checked and how they are being checked. The Ministry of Economics, when giving its answers, is, in the end, finalising itself. On the one hand, it was claimed that these verifications are carried out in principle on the basis of documents and that certain documents are verified. That's on the one hand. On the other hand, as we have already found out, a very basic factor when it comes to checking cogeneration plants is whether they really qualify for aid or not. One such aspect is whether this plant produces electricity in an efficient cogeneration process. And here's the heat that's really important, how efficient it is, how useful it is produced. None of the documents examined by the Ministry of Economic Affairs confirms this. Then the question is: how has the Ministry of Economics been convinced that this permit should be maintained for already seven stations? As the Ministry of Economics officially notified the Request Commission and, with full responsibility, claimed that all seven of the stations for which the permit is to be maintained are indeed operating in accordance with the requirements of the laws and regulations and the authorisation. Thus, the principle of the requirement of efficient cogeneration is also respected. Then we are asking the Ministry of Economics to submit these documents on the basis of which the Ministry of Economics has decided that it is justified to keep permits for these seven stations. This is one part of the substance of the request. And the second part of the substance of the request. However, we want to get the justification of the Ministry of Economics why it is necessary to hide from the public these seven stations, which work in good faith. What has the Ministry of Economics done again? It has once again said that this information is limited, and that is why our sitting was closed so as not to know which stations are being checked. In this request, we ask the Ministry of Economics to give reasons and explain how the fact that the public will be aware of what these seven stations, which work in good faith, will interfere with the work of these stations. Please provide a justification. Otherwise, however, we have every reason to fear that these checks are actually carried out not to detect the possible irregularities of the OIC, but to conceal them. And that is why both the stations to be checked and the composition of the control group are being hidden and what they are actually doing. We very much hope that the Minister for Economics will finally be able to address these concerns and come with concrete, clear answers, because it is primarily in his own interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U17	Thank you. The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima asks to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and to consider draft law “Amendment to Law “On Judicial Power”” at first reading without re-examination in the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission shall request the draft law drafted by the Commission “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. And Members Jansons, Abu Meri, Dzintars, Upenieks and Dombrava are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and for it to be included in the draft law ‘Amendments to the electoral law of the Saeima’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “On Real Estate Expropriation for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would remind you that this draft law was originally intended to dispose of several properties for the installation of the state border band, but in the course of the examination of the draft law, real estate owners managed to agree with the responsible institutions, and now we have only one real estate left in this draft law, which unfortunately has not been agreed upon, and the main reason is that the owner of real estate does not agree with the assessment carried out by the responsible institutions in accordance with the law. In this respect, the Commission indicated that the owner has the right to contest this assessment in accordance with the procedure established by the Civil Procedure Law. Colleagues! The Commission has received five proposals. 1. is the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky, which is editorial in nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U20	The proposal of the Minister of the Interior, Kozlovska, which has been partly supported, has been incorporated into 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U21	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U22	3. - The legal commission's proposal, which is clear. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U24	4. is a proposal from the Minister of the Interior, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U26	And 5 is also an explicit proposal from the Minister for the Interior, which has been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U28	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “On Real Estate Expropriation for the Installation of the State Border Strip of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation” at the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law on the disposal of real estate for the construction of the border band of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation for Damages caused by Public Administration Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U30	Hello, dear colleagues! Three proposals for the third reading of the draft law have been received. The Legal Commission assessed them and decided accordingly. The proposal, which is a proposal from the Legal Office, has been partly supported by the inclusion of the proposal in proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U31	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U32	The proposal is a wording of this Article prepared by the Legal Commission and has been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U34	The proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, concerns transitional provisions and has been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U36	Therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I request support for this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation for Damages caused by Public Administration Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law on amendments to the law on the holding of persons in custody, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Zenta Tretjaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U38	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the law on the holding of persons in custody” (No 1119/Lp12). On 10 June 2016, Directive 2016/800 on procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings entered into force. The aim of the Directive is to establish procedural safeguards to ensure that children who are suspected or accused in criminal proceedings are able to understand and follow this process. This would enable these children to exercise their right to a fair trial, to prevent children from re-offending and to promote their social inclusion. Currently, Section 5 (4) of the Law provides that temporary detention place may be visited for the performance of procedural activities of persons provided for in the Criminal Procedure Law; representatives of state and international human rights protection institutions; employees of emergency medical assistance and emergency services; representatives of diplomatic or consular missions. Those persons shall not include relatives who have been detained by a minor. A minor in criminal proceedings is considered to be particularly vulnerable, therefore minors should be allowed to maintain regular and meaningful contact with parents and family in the event of deprivation of liberty. A supplement is therefore provided for, stating that the place of temporary detention may be visited by the spouse, spouse, children, parents, guardian, grandparents, brothers and sisters of the minor who has been detained, as well as his or her person (intermediately.) with which the minor is living together and with which he or she has a common (divided) holding. At the same time, for the purpose of protecting the interests of criminal proceedings and taking into account the need to carry out certain procedural actions within the maximum period of detention (48 hours) as well as taking into account physical security risks regarding the right of visit at the place of temporary detention, it is planned to limit the period of such meeting to one hour during the stay at the place of temporary detention alone with not more than two relatives, if this does not hinder the achievement of the objectives of criminal proceedings. There is also an obligation for relatives to match the meeting in advance with the driver of the process. The second issue dealt with by the Directive concerns the right of a minor to receive a medical examination, particularly when assessing his or her mental and physical condition. The results of a medical examination shall be taken into account in determining whether the minor may be subject to questioning or other investigative or evidence-gathering activities or to any measures taken or planned for the child. A medical examination may be requested from the competent authority, the child's lawyer or relatives. Consequently, Article 9 is to be supplemented by Part 2.1: ‘The health care provided for in the first paragraph shall be provided to the minor at the initiative of the leader of the process or of the police officer, in particular where specific health-related indications so require, or at the request of the detained minor, his or her representative, defender or any other person.’ Provision shall also be made for the right of a police officer or a process promoter to request from a medical institution an extract on the condition of the minor's health and the obligation to attach it to the materials of a criminal case. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined and supported the draft law at its meeting on 6 February this year. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on the detention of persons in custody! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U40	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 26 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U41	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U42	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima reviewed and prepared the Saeima for its first reading evaluation of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the regulated professions and recognition of professional qualifications”. This draft law is very important in the sense that the law was adopted in 2001, during which many changes took place, both in the labour market and in society as a whole. New professions have appeared, some of the old ones have disappeared. We are joining the European Union, and education obtained abroad or the working of Latvian citizens on the European labour market - this is daily. The law therefore requires these amendments aimed at regulated professions. The draft law regulates in detail what criteria are required for the recognition of professions, what education should be. I would mention one brief example: Article 8.1, new wording, states that general requirements for education and professional qualifications in regulated professions in the field of construction require first-level professional higher education; construction engineer – second-level professional higher education. And so on, and so on. The issue of a European Professional Card is a very important thing that has not been done before, because our citizens are going to work abroad and there is a need for comparison of professional qualifications. All this requires quite a great deal of intensive discussions with a number of social groups. There is already a great deal of interest. I call on the Saeima to support this necessary draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U43	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U44	With a view to a major and wide-ranging discussion, the Commission is asking for a deadline for the submission of proposals on 16 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U45	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on bailiffs”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U46	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to the law of the bailiffs” at second reading. The Commission has received 22 proposals. The proposal is the proposal of Member Valdis Kalnozols, which provides that a person who wishes to be a bailiff needs to acquire special knowledge in the field of the protection of children's rights. The Commission did not conceptually object to such a claim, however it found that the claim in question should not be included in Section 12 of the Law on the Executors of the Courts, but that it should be included in Section 5.1 of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. In this context, the Commission sent its proposals for amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. And given that the Commission, as I mentioned, found that this condition should not be included in Section 12 of the Law on Judicial Executives, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U47	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U48	Good morning, brothers and sisters! Why do I call for support? Because already in the current Law on the Protection of Children's Rights, it seems that an sworn bailiff must understand... Because, in principle, the definition... all those whose work involves children must undergo this training. And it has been in force for years. For this time, as reported by a representative of the Council of Sworn Judicial Executives of Latvia, only 30 percent of the Sworn Judicial Officers have completed this training during these years. So they take this issue very lightly. Therefore, I believe that double does not break. The more we stress why we lay it in the law, the more our judicial system will approach justice and essence, the less we... Eliminate what is currently in our judicial system - interpretation of the letter of the law. Why do I still believe that we should not postpone this issue, but put it in here? I propose a Mediation law that would, in principle, rule out many of my proposals and would not be necessary. The essence of the Mediation Law was to do everything for parents to resolve and not engage third forces themselves – courts, orphan courts, jury bailiffs. But this was rejected on the grounds that we had funding for mediation. It's gonna be all right for this mediation to go ahead. This year, this funding was not provided. So I don't have faith that there's something going on if there's something left. I therefore call for support to put this point in place. The double doesn't break. It will not be wrong if it is stipulated in another place that an sworn bailiff must acquire the knowledge specified in the Law on Children's Law. It's not going to be bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U49	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U50	Yes, dear colleagues! I just want to say that, first of all, the legislator cannot rely on the principle of "double does not break". Secondly, it cannot be that there is regulation, but at the same time there is no regulation. I would like to say on behalf of the Commission that Section 5.1 of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child is exactly the place where specific persons must be identified who must acquire this expertise. I have already mentioned in the report on this proposal that the Legal Commission has sent its proposal to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U51	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Nanozol's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 62, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U52	Colleagues, the next one is the proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U54	3. is the proposal of the Member, Mr Kalnozol, which was not supported by the Commission. This proposal effectively divides the duties of the bailiff into those that are enforceable and those that are particularly enforceable. It could not be that there are certain obligations that are enforceable and certain obligations that are even more binding. Consequently, on the basis of these considerations, the Commission did not support the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U55	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U56	There is a saying: “He who eats will not understand. ” As long as we don't come in contact with these things in life, we think it's trawl-waves. When you start to face these questions in life, you start to open your eyes and you start to see that there is an absolute injustice. I have the problem of being intolerant and dealing with this injustice. Perhaps my proposals are not legally perfect, so I hope that the Legal Bureau will help. The fact is that an sworn bailiff is in fact not motivated to deal with matters, especially those related to children's rights. There's no money. A man known to me, very close to the sworn bailiff, said, "Oh, no, no, Valdis, I don't want!" I also turned to an sworn bailiff in whose area I have to execute this judgment. He did everything he could not do. Now I have a court decision on my hand, but it is ignored, and no one wants to realize it in life! This is about motivation, so that decisions at the bottom of which there are no big millions and where you can't buy a house in Mezaparks are also enforceable, especially on matters that affect our children. The most important thing we have is children. Currently, children are being used as a weapon of retaliation against their parents. And the sworn bailiff is the one who should do so in a way that doesn't happen. Sworn bailiff very perfectly... Everything related to the child’s maintenance is recovered from his father. But when my father says, “I’m not a bank for my children, I want to see my children!” then the procedure begins. And when the children are 18 years old, the father realizes that now I'm not going to see any more... I've been just a bank and I've never met my children in my life. My proposals are therefore directly related to the fact that an sworn bailiff not only recovers money but also executes other court decisions, especially those relating to children. It is in the children’s interest to grow up with both parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U57	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U58	Yeah. Dear colleagues, Mr Kalnozol has already mentioned - and it is obviously my duty to further explain - that a number of letters were sent to the Commission from Mr Kalnozol concerning possible violations of the activities of bailiffs. This case was based on a dispute between Kalnozola or his family members and a certain bailiff, which later on even... These cases have also been reviewed by the court and left valid the decisions of the bailiff, and in the commission we indicated that the commission is not competent to assess... and it would be neither ethical nor lawful either to assess these specific situations in which there is a Member's dispute with the bailiff. However, returning to the specific proposal, I would like to point out once again that the current wording of the Law on Judicial Executives provides that a sworn bailiff does not have the right to refuse to comply with the statutory obligations, thus any obligations. What Mr. Nunozole is proposing is that, in particular, we must not refuse the execution of institutions or judicial decisions other than those relating to the recovery of tangible assets... It is true that in other cases, however, the bailiff might have a certain right to refuse to comply with the statutory obligations. That was not, in the opinion of the Commission, justified. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal and calls on the Saeima not to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U59	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Nanozol's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -1, for -63, for -11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U60	Colleagues! 4. is the proposal of Member Valdis Kalnozols, which, in essence, requires the Minister of Justice to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the bailiff for each application received. In the Commission there was a discussion about this, and the Ministry of Justice also pointed out that not in all cases a disciplinary case had to be initiated. Because at first (Sitting driver knocks down with a hammer.) By getting to know...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U61	Dear colleagues, If you have to discuss anything urgently, you can leave the Chamber and do not interfere with the conduct of the sitting! Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U62	Thank you. In a number of cases, it is clear from the initial application or potential complaint that this complaint is unfounded and it would not be appropriate to initiate disciplinary proceedings on a case-by-case basis, also from the point of view of the use of state resources. This can be done when there is a real violation of the law. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U63	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U64	Why do I propose that the word "can" be removed so that the Ministry of Justice is obliged to initiate these cases? First of all, because we're... ( In between: “Now! ”) ) Let us stay at this: “For the moment given”, I said so. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “It’s wrong!” ) First of all, because we ourselves, the leaders of the people, have a low level of trust among the people. And even lower levels of trust are for sworn bailiffs. And if we want, as I said in the Commission, to say about our country that our laws are cheese, but just, then... At present, more laws are cheese and unfair. Yeah... And this is a small step forward, so that we can improve both the credibility of ourselves and the sworn bailiffs. Why do I think this is necessary? This was also confirmed by Mr Curry's statement that we do not have judges. He said: “Well, we know each other, and those judges don’t really make sense.” At the moment, it seems that where everything is related to justice, legal matters do know each other and nothing really happens there. I will give you examples of the next proposal, which shows that there is something kind of salt in the other way... Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U65	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U66	Good morning, colleagues! I think the moment has come when the previous speaker could stop dealing with his private life here, in the Saeima, from this main platform. In the past, the head of the commission said that he had put forward his proposals... In principle, I see that this STECF Member is dealing with his private problems here in an open manner for public money. Please do it in your free time, Mr. Kalnozol, not here in the Saeima on Thursday, when the whole country is looking at you! You're not ashamed of what you're doing right now? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Upenieks: “Go out, talk out!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U67	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U68	Yes, I completely agree! Member Artus Neighbours! Come out maybe with me, solve those questions and don't come here! All of these my proposals, which I propose to the draft law, have nothing to do with me. They are related to future people who will come into contact with sworn bailiffs. And I'm very sorry, Mr. Neighbours, that I haven't been to the actors' courses... Really, I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U69	On the proposal, Mr. Nunozol!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U70	I perceive the work of my people's superiors more as a change of law to bring our laws into order, so that they are fairer than I use these tribunals for the perfection of acter art.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U71	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U72	Yes, colleagues, I'll just remind you. This proposal provides that any application or complaint received must be immediately triggered by a disciplinary action. In the light of the above arguments expressed at the commission meeting, I call for this proposal not to be supported by the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U73	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Nanozol's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 3, for - 65, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U74	5. is an identical proposal of Member Kalnozols, which imposes the same duty on the Council of Sworn Judicial Officers of Latvia. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U75	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U76	Yeah, I can't understand if I'm not fed! That's the experience. Sworn bailiffs send a decision by post on the previous night that a person should execute, namely, that the next morning he should meet with his children. The next morning, the person to whom the letter was sent does not receive it, and he receives it in five days. Sworn bailiff draws up a statement that no meeting has taken place that this person is abusive. A complaint shall be made to that Board. Well, this is absolutely unethical: last night send a letter to meet next morning. It is physically impossible because the letter does not come. Both the Council of Sworn Courts of Latvia and the Court considered this to be the norm. For, behold, an sworn bailiff has no law on the time limit within which he must send this letter. So everything is fine, and an sworn bailiff has obeyed the law. The current situation in our country is the interpretation of the letter of the law, not the truth and the essence. That is why there are these amendments to the law that I have proposed, so that there is no longer such a situation. I will not repeat them, but so that others, who sit here, do not have a situation where an sworn bailiff sends you a letter tonight that you have to do something tomorrow. And if you don't do anything tomorrow, you'll be dragged off and it'll be said that you haven't done the right thing. And when you complain about the performer of sworn courts, everyone will say, “It’s all right!”
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U77	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U78	Colleagues! I have already provided an explanation in relation to the previous proposal. Consequently, the Commission did not support the proposal on the basis of these arguments. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U79	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Member Nanozol's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -4, against -56, abstaining - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U80	Thank you. 6. - the proposal by Member Nernozol to include two Members of the Saeima in the composition of the Disciplinary Commission. Let me draw attention to some aspects that we discussed in the Commission. First. Currently, the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials does not allow Members of the Saeima to participate in this type of commission. Second. Together with this proposal, which provides for the inclusion of two Members of the Saeima in the composition of this committee, no proposals were made regarding the order in which these Members of the Saeima would be elected. One of the options that came out was that the Legal Commission could do this... It is true, Mr Nunozole pointed out that there should definitely not be lawyers in this commission. Thus, on the applicant's side, it seems that Members are divided into those Members who have legal training and those who do not. So, of course, that is the essence of the decision. If Members decide to include Members of the Saeima in the Disciplinary Commission, then it is obvious that there will also be a number of amendments to other laws. However, the Commission did not support this proposal on the basis of these arguments.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U81	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U82	Why did I propose such amendments? I could already say in previous speeches... I said... One is Curry's saying that we are too close to each other, especially lawyers, when we have to decide about our colleague, our own, in this way, a group member or acquaintance, or... and so on... And I have already shown that in many cases when I have to decide on my groupmates, my acquaintances, and, as I say, the fate of my positionmates, there are problems: ‘ How am I going to be blaming a person like that? It's a member of my group!” It is therefore this proposal that we put in there a representative of the people who, by its very nature, must represent the interests of the people, so that these sworn bailiffs, so to speak, act in the interests of the citizens, not create laws in their own interests. I have no claims against a lawyer. We wait very long and very well known (it seems to me from the time that Gaidis was sitting in the Foundation “Fatherland”) and we are very close. I have no hatred and hatred, and I have sympathy for Gaidy and other lawyers, but I am talking about purely human values. I would also find it hard to punish my groupmate, somehow to snatch. There is therefore my proposal to make these decisions more objective, not in their own narrowness... in this way, in a narrow circle. Even so, however, the leaders of the people place their attachment, so that the level of trust of our citizens may be higher for sworn bailiffs!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U83	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U84	Colleagues! As I pointed out, the Commission did not support this proposal on the basis of the above arguments. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U85	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Member Nanozol's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 1, against - 68, refraining from - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U86	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which has been supported by the Commission and which provides for an increase in the amount of the fine as one of the forms of disciplinary sanctions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U88	8 / 8 - Member Kalnozol's proposal, which is in fact related to pending proposals - Proposals 5 and 4, which would oblige the Minister of Justice or the Council of Sworn Judicial Executives of Latvia to initiate disciplinary proceedings and take any of the decisions accordingly. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U89	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U90	In this way, those who eat will not understand, so I would like to remind you once again: these proposals are aimed at ensuring that it is also true for children to be brought up. To have both mother and father. Although court decisions related to the need for a child to meet his father and mother would be executed, not just decisions related to money, where a certain percentage of this amount can be recovered and obtained.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U91	I closed the debate. Is there anything to be explained in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U92	No, thank you. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U93	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Member Nanozol's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 0 to - 69, refrain - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U94	9. There is also a motion from Member Valdis Kalnozols, which has not been endorsed by the Commission. This proposal essentially obliges the bailiff to impose disciplinary action if the disciplinary committee finds possible violations in enforcement cases which are not related to material values. In fact, one category of cases is divided and if such a proposal is supported, it may turn out that other types of infringements could not be subject to disciplinary action. The Commission also had a discussion on the deadlines proposed here, namely a month, two, three and more months... the time limits for the enforcement of the court order. Mr Kalnozol referred to examples of the exercise of rights of access, but other examples were given at the committee's meeting. For example, if there is a court ruling on ensuring the right of access and the bailiff to comply with this court ruling, they find that the child is ill and there is also evidence, then it is impossible to enforce this decision. If the legislator sets a specific time limit within which the decision is enforceable and then the infringement takes place, it will be disproportionate in these specific cases also with regard to respect for the rights of the child. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U95	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U96	Those involved in entrepreneurship or leadership, organisation, motivation to act know exactly who motivates people to act. There are good things, there are bad things. If you have an incentive to get money, it motivates you to recover a court decision that contains money inside. If you don't have any motivation to execute any court decisions, then it doesn't happen. And this is not about the allocation of cases, but there must be a system of motivation for all court decisions to be enforced. Not only are they related to money, but also to other things. And there's a clear system of motivation to motivate the execution of a court order to... Talking about the things that Gaidis Berzins has just mentioned. Yeah, there are cases. If compulsory mediation were to be introduced, the parents themselves would understand that involving third parties is unethical: they themselves have to deal with this issue. But since we don't want to do this and believe that the parents should involve third parties - a court, a family court, an sworn bailiff... That sworn bailiffs work consciously and in the best interests of the child. It is not in the child’s interest to grow up with only one parent. It is in the child’s interest to grow up with both parents. And an sworn bailiff, if not possible today, sets a different time. And at that time they do it. But I believe that the system must be such that the parents agree and do not involve a judicious bailiff in their own matters. There must be an incentive system not to engage a stranger in the conduct of his or her relationship.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U97	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U98	No, thank you. The Commission did not support this proposal on the basis of these arguments.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U99	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Member Nanozol's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 64, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U100	10. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U102	11. is Member Valdis Kalnozols' proposal, which provides for a ceiling on the remuneration of sworn bailiffs... ceiling for the necessary expenses both for the remuneration of the post and for the performance of its activities. Accordingly, a rate of one part, which does not have a second part, is proposed. There was a debate in the Commission on this matter. From a legal technical point of view, arguments were also raised that did not support this proposal. Mr Kalnozol offers to count together the costs required for remuneration and performance activities, but situations may occur where the costs necessary for carrying out the performance activities (e.g. the amount of the valuation and other costs) are similar or higher than those proposed. That's one. Second. The Commission did not support this proposal but generally drew attention to the fact that there would be a transparent tax on the remuneration of bailiffs at least in respect of cases where the bailiff receives remuneration from the so-called recovered amount indicated in the Cabinet of Ministers’ regulations. At the moment it should be noted that the situation has also changed since the previous amendments to these Cabinet Regulations have been made. In particular, electronic auctions have been introduced for real estate auctions, and I very much hope that in the near future we will also introduce electronic auctions for the sale of movable property. The Commission therefore decided to address the Minister of Justice with an invitation to carry out such an assessment, and a letter to the Minister of Justice was also sent on behalf of the Commission. At the same time, however, on behalf of the Commission, attention should be paid to the following case if we review these fees of remuneration (which is based on the question of competence of the Cabinet of Ministers). In fact, currently, according to Section 567(3) of Civil Procedure Law, cases have been established where the recoveror has been exempted from payment of execution of the judgment. Well, for example, these are claims for the recovery of wages, claims arising from personal abuse, claims for the recovery of maintenance and claims when the recovery is made for the benefit of the State. It is therefore clear that expenditure is also involved in the enforcement of those actions and that a certain remuneration for bailiffs is also required for the enforcement of those actions. At present, this system is designed in such a way that the bailiffs cover these costs partly from other income, so in fact it is a form of cross-subsidisation in a sense. And accordingly, if these remuneration rates are revised as a whole (this could possibly also be done, at least in the case of forced sale of real estate and forced sale of movable property), that is a preliminary calculation that would be... I should certainly be aware of the need for additional funds, obviously in the coming period. These are about 300,000, which will be necessary from the state budget to cover the costs of those categories of cases in which the applicant is exempt from the payment of the execution of the judgment. Taking all these arguments into account, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Before we start a debate on this subject, I would like to inform you that Members of the Parliament have asked Abu Meri, Brigmanis, Cilinskis, Upenieks and Morozov to continue the sitting without interruption until all the items on the agenda have been examined. Do Members have objections? ( Impressions: “No! And! None!’ ) So are there objections? ( Interfaces: “There are objections! ” ) Please call us! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 12, for - 1. Decision adopted. The sitting of the Saeima will be held without interruption. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U104	This is perhaps the most serious amendment proposed by the law on bailiffs, the essence of which is to prevent injustice. At present, if you want to sell your property on the Internet, you will associate with the company that advertises yourself, forming an image that can sell the property. And this company will take 2.5 percent of you for this service that you have used to sell your property. But there is a great injustice that a sworn bailiff receives 15 percent for the same activity. In fact, it is money that is not being received by someone who should receive it. If I have to get some funds from the citizen's X, I get 15 percent less money and I need to do something else to get it. And the other. The injustice is that the citizen or citizen from whom this funding is being recovered will still owe 15 percent. He still needs to find, for example, some property to sell. This amendment to the law is in the interests of citizens. There was a question of sworn bailiffs in the countryside that they sometimes took their lives. My view... is the Latvian Council of Sworn Courts and Latvian Board of Sworn Courts. Let it come with its proposals and represent the interests of sworn bailiffs, as they see it! But this amendment to the law is mainly in the interests of citizens, so that citizens do not suffer from the injustice of our laws. As an engineer, I may not have made this law perfectly, but there are many things to stick to. But I'd be very grateful if the Law Office and other lawyers... Other Members, folk leaders who have legal knowledge, help and drown this law so that it is fair and substantive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U105	Name to Member Andris Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U106	Colleagues! I will abstain from voting on this proposal. I think that is worthy of debate. In the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, we have repeatedly looked at the issue of remuneration. The State Audit Office has also noted that this remuneration is disproportionate. If I don't beg you, the bailiff has over 100. And we could divide them up as follows: millionaires, very rich, very wealthy and poor - those who train, let's say, get to the top of that. I think that the work done by the bailiff in comparison... if we look at it from the beginning: there is a judgment, those people have worked... the same judge, I don't know, still others... their remuneration in relation to the remuneration of the bailiffs, not in all cases, but in cases where their remuneration is disproportionate. That, I think, must be taken seriously. That's the effort the bailiff has... I don't know... Just a genius... We need to make one good thing, earn one or two million and say that I can now calmly, let's say one month... Well, I did a year, I earned two million, and now I can live quietly. That is not proportionate! I will, of course, abstain, but to the Ministry of Justice (Inter-Charter.) ... The Ministry of Justice should certainly think about this, it is clear. And also take into account the proposals that the State Audit Office urges: there can be no tsunami that can act as it wishes, and its reward for them is, to be honest, disproportionate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U107	The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U108	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! The density of remuneration of bailiffs has been heard in various formats, in the media. As Mr Burns said, the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit has also spoken about this. But I will mention a very specific case that can apply to every one. The person who owns the real estate inherited from his parents in Riga for non-cleaning of the territory, for not cutting the grass in excess of 20 centimetres, was fined several times. A person who is a pensioner in Group 2 disabled is repeatedly fined EUR 350 for a few... in various cases, also because he did not attend the meeting that dealt with his problem! And it may be that a penalty - 350 euros in a particular case - seems disproportionate, but God applied it to him! But then the most interesting thing happens. This case is referred to the bailiff... The first thing... for EUR 350... shall be handed over to the bailiff. And what's his reward? Compensation of the post - 85,37, payment of documents - 1,45, percentage of the service fee - 52,5... plus one more document sent - a total of 171 euros. So 50 percent is at the €350 penalty. And what does the bailiff do? The bailiff shall send to the State Social Insurance Agency information that from such and such person, from the pensioner, he requests to deduct this amount according to the provisions of law, as long as the law permits. A little over 80 euros are deducted each month. And that's all the work of the bailiff. He receives EUR 170 for this - on every occasion. And there were several. I understand, well, in the first case, let's assume that he still needed to collect information in the database, maybe more work to invest. Maybe it would really cost some more. But in all other cases, only a document is sent - for this too, please, EUR 171 is due to me. Well, my dear friends! Come on! Well, it's kind of absurd! The proposal being drawn up is legally totally unacceptable. However, so that we do not have any problems in rejecting this proposal... And if, at third reading, we put forward proposals, then the President will tell us: “Dear friends! You integrate conceptual solutions into third reading! This is not acceptable!’ That is why I am calling for support for the Nernosol proposal and for precise rules to be introduced into the law, which would impose restrictions so that this fatness and disproportionateness would finally be stopped. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “I support!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U109	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U110	Colleagues! For the sake of clarity only, I would like to inform that the remuneration fees of bailiffs are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers' regulations on the remuneration fees of sworn bailiffs, which in essence can be grouped into two groups. The first is the so-called fixed remuneration tax. For example, about the seizure of the ship - 266,65 EUR or the description of real estate - 133,32 EUR. And the second part is the so-called percentage reward charge for so-called recovered amounts. And what Mr. Nunozol said... To be clear about the 50... 15 per cent of the actual amount recovered mentioned: 15 per cent of the actual amount recovered is only up to EUR 4269. This percentage is subsequently decreasing accordingly. However, as I said, the Commission also considered that this amount of remuneration would certainly be transparent in this section. And in the light of the above arguments, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U111	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Member Nanozol's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - 2 and for - 1. The proposal is supported. We are continuing the legislative process.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U112	Colleagues, I'm sorry. We have devoted two meetings of the Commission to this issue and only 10 minutes to other issues. So I guess... yeah. See below. 12. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U114	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U116	14 is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U118	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from the Legal Office, which has been partially supported and included in the list of 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U119	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U120	16. is a proposal from the Legal Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U122	17. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U124	18. is a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U126	In proposal 19, the Legal Commission has drawn up transitional provisions that have been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U128	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Legal Bureau clarification proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U130	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice on transitional provisions. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U132	22. - The legal commission's proposal, which has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U134	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the law on bailiffs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U135	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Performers of the Courts”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U136	The deadline for submitting proposals is February 20, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U137	Thank you. Proposals are due by 20 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Promotion and Protection of Mutual Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U138	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable and honourable Members! In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported for the first reading the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Promotion and Protection of Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement”. On the substance of the bill. Latvia has concluded bilateral investment promotion and mutual protection agreements with 22 Member States of the European Union. In 2009, the European Commission pointed out that the situation of the existence of investment treaties between the countries of the European Union is contrary to the European Union legal framework because it infringes or allows a parallel jurisdiction for the translation of several fundamental principles of the internal market of the European Union: the free movement of capital, the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services. Such an agreement was concluded with Poland on 26 April 1993. In order to avoid any infringement proceedings against Latvia and to refer to the offer of the Polish Government, we have launched the denunciation process of the specific contract. I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U139	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the Promotion and Protection of Mutual Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U140	Colleagues, deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 26 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U141	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is February 26, this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U142	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues! In its meeting, the Foreign Commission examined and supported for the first reading the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on Amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments and Denunciation of the Agreement”. On the substance of the bill. As in the case of the above-mentioned agreement with Poland, the denunciation of the agreement with the Czech Republic was initiated because this type of agreement is contrary to the legal framework of the European Union, because it infringes or allows a parallel jurisdiction for the translation of several fundamental principles of the internal market of the European Union. Such an agreement was concluded with the Czech Republic on 25 October 1994 and, referring to the proposal of the Czech Government, we have launched a process of denunciation of that agreement. I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U143	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment and Denunciation of the Agreement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U144	Colleagues! Let us wait until 26 February this year for the proposals for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U145	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is February 26, this year. On the agenda - draft law on the first reading of the agreement on cooperation in disaster prevention, preparedness and response between the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U146	Colleagues! In its meeting, the Foreign Commission examined and supported for the first reading the draft law “On the Agreement on Cooperation in Disaster Prevention, Preparedness and Response between the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania”. The nature of the draft law. At present, issues related to mutual assistance between Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia in the event of natural disasters and other major accidents are governed by bilateral agreements, which will be replaced by a regulation in support of this agreement, which will ensure more effective cooperation between our countries in the field of disaster prevention, preparedness and response in order to protect people, the environment and property. Such a tripartite agreement will provide mutual assistance for disaster prevention, preparedness and disaster response. This will facilitate and accelerate the movement of rescue teams and individual specialists, as well as the supply of necessary equipment to the territory of the country where the disaster occurred. Compliance with the commitments contained in the agreement will be ensured within the allocated state budget funds, i.e. without additional funding. I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U147	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the agreement on cooperation in disaster prevention, preparedness and response between the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U148	The Commission will wait for the second reading until 26 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U149	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is February 26, this year. On the agenda - Draft law Amendments to the law on the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Citizens of Other States, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U150	Honourable Members! In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported for its first reading the draft law “Amendments to the law on the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Citizens of Other Countries”. The nature of the draft law. Taking into account that the State Chancellery ensures representation of the state interests in international investment disputes, it is necessary to amend the law, by stating that the State Chancellery is the competent institution representing the Republic of Latvia in the investment dispute resolution centre, represents the state in international investment disputes, in addition to establishing the task for the State Administration to provide methodological assistance to other state institutions in matters related to international investment protection. With regard to the nomination of representatives to the list of peacekeepers and the list of arbitrators, the former order is to be maintained, i.e. they are to be defined by the Cabinet of Ministers on the recommendation of the Minister of Justice. I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U151	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first-reading amendment to the draft law on the Convention on the Settlement of Investment Disputes between States and Citizens of Other States! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U152	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 26 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U153	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U154	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Commission has considered amendments to the Law on the application of taxes in ports and special economic zones. In order to ensure support for the companies of the Freeport of Riga and Ventspils, as well as Liepaja, Rezekne and Latgale Special Economic Zones for the execution of investments, it is necessary to harmonise the provisions of the Law on Tax Application in Freeport and Special Economic Zones with the amended regulation on business support and initial investment, i.e. the Commission Regulation (EU) 2017/1084 of 14 June 2017. Amendments to the law will enable new investments to be attracted in the future by applying the statutory reliefs from corporate tax and real estate tax. When preparing the draft law, the Ministry of Transport has consulted the Ministry of Finance, as well as Ventspils and Riga Freeports, Liepaja, Rezekne and Latgale Special Economic Zones. The draft law will have a positive impact on employment in the regions, taking into account the possibility of starting new economic activities or extending existing ones. There is no additional economic burden. The Commission calls for urgent action to be taken on the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U155	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for -69, no one for -11, no one for -11. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U156	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U157	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U158	The proposals should be submitted by 20 February this year and the second reading by 1 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U159	Thank you. Deadline for the submission of proposals - 20 February this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 1 March this year. Dear colleagues, Members Artuss Kaimiņš, Ivars Zariņš, Sergejs Potapkins, Andris Morozovs and Arthur Rubiks are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include in it the draft law "Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order". Do Members object to these amendments to the agenda? ( Interfaces: “No, no! ” “ Yes!” ) Members have reservations, so we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for amendments to the agenda of the Saeima sitting, including the draft law on Amendments to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure roll! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 37, for - 6, for - 39. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima is not amended and the draft law is not included on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to Law “On Judicial Power”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U160	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, When assessing the criticism of insolvency proceedings in public spaces, the Council for the Judiciary heard a number of opinions and suggestions at its meeting on 22 January and 5 February of this year on further action on issues related to insolvency proceedings and supported the need for amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability, as well as the related law “On Judicial Power”, providing for the Judicial Disciplinary Committee the right to establish professional... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) providing for the right to determine an extraordinary assessment of the professional activity. Therefore, this amendment to the law “On Judicial Power” also provides such a procedure. It should also be noted that this amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” and subsequent amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability have been reviewed and supported by the Commission for Judicial Policy. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support to the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U161	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Judicial Power” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U162	The deadline for submitting proposals is February 26, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U163	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 February this year. Mr. Nunozol! Do you want to motivate your vote on this bill? I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. V. Kalnozols: “I’m short!” ) The name of the vote to motivate the Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U164	I applied for the previous... I have a great request: put our energy and arrange the judicial system so that our best and smartest and most intelligent lawyers would like to become judges! And another great request: let us also open the law of so-called officials, that the judges may have a worthy salary, that they may be called judges.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U165	Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Disciplinary Liability of Judges”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U166	Colleagues! As I have already mentioned, these amendments relate to the amendment to the Law on Judicial Power, which has just been approved. Moreover, in these amendments it is also planned to change the composition of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee, removing from this composition after the election of the new Judicial Disciplinary Committee... In other words, until then, the existing College continues to work, but there would be no judges in the new College of Land Registers. Appropriate amendments are planned to include the Land Register judges in the composition of judges of general jurisdiction - with all rights and duties of judges of general jurisdiction. And more. This draft law contains amendments related to the correction of errors of rewriting decisions adopted by the Judicial Disciplinary Committee. The Commission supported this draft law. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U167	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Disciplinary Liability” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U168	Also for this draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 26 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U169	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 February this year. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the member Ritvars Jansons, Hosama Abu Meri, Raivja Dzintars, Jānis Upenieks and Jānis Dombrava submit the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Mr. Ritvars Jansons, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U170	Honourable Members! The purpose of the amendments is to implement the principle of self-defence democracy - to protect Latvia's national security and democratic state system. Currently, the law prevents former employees of state security services, intelligence services or anti-intelligence services of the USSR and the Latvian SSR from standing in the Saeima elections and from taking office as member of the Saeima. But this is allowed by the informants. On behalf of the objective of protecting the national security and democratic state system, the proposed amendments to the law provide that the informants of the former state security services, intelligence services or counter-intelligence services of the USSR and the Latvian SSR cannot be applied for as candidates in the Saeima elections and cannot be elected to the Saeima. Any electoral system should be assessed in the light of national political developments. The historical political circumstances under which restrictions are to be imposed must be taken into account. The Republic of Latvia's secondary Communist occupation lasted from 1944 to 1990. During that period, the security authorities of the USSR and the LSSR provided occupation power in Latvia. It was also provided by the informants of these institutions, which carried out their activities until August 1991. When the State of Latvia took over the KGB documents, the active informant had more than four thousand people. Above all, in age stages with public activity. Most of these people remained living in the Republic of Latvia. As the law prevents the public from knowing about the cooperation of whistleblowers with security authorities, very few former whistleblowers have declared this fact to the public. Informants' work and personal cases are located in Russia, so there is an opportunity to blackmail these people. This is a threat to the security of the country and to the system of a democratic parliamentary state. Against this background, the restriction on former informants of the security authorities to stand in elections to the Saeima and to serve as a member of the Saeima shall be justified and justified. On August 30, 2000 the Constitutional Court decided that the restrictions on the political rights of the employees of the state security services, intelligence services or anti-intelligence services of the state state of the Saeima and the City Council, the District Council and the Parish Council Election Law were proportionate. The judgment also leads to proportionality in limiting the political rights of former informants. In accordance with the law “On the maintenance, use of documents of the former State Security Committee and fact of cooperation of persons with the establishment of the KGB”, restrictions on legal relations with employees and informants of the KGB are not without a time limit. The removal of a candidate from the list of candidates takes place not as a result of administrative arbitrariness, but on the basis of an individual judgment. Consequently, the fair defence of the court as well as the right to use a lawyer is guaranteed to these persons. On 8 February of this year, the Members of the Saeima transferred to the committee responsible amendments to the Law on Elections to the City Council and District Council of the Republic, which prevented former informants from occupying the office of Member of the Municipality. And it is only logical that it is decided to ban these former informants from taking up the post of Member of the Saeima. I call on you to support the referral of the draft law to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U171	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The agenda for the sitting of the Saeima has been examined. However, I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today. On the question of Member Viļuma, Šics, Freezers, Krumins and Platoper, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis “On Elections of the rectorate of Daugavpils University”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given. Mr Janis Dūklavs, Member of the Minister for Agriculture of Morozova, Orlova, Jakimova, Zuvėvs and Ribakov, “in relation to the duration of the phytosanitary control post at the border crossing point “Riga International Airport” and the consequences of this violation”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Member of the Minister for the Interior of Viļuma, Freeer, Ruka, Šics and Smiltēna, Rihard Kozlovskis, “On a Passage System in Border Authorities”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. On the question of Member Orlova, Ribakova, Morozova, Urbanoviča and Potapkina, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the remuneration of the new head of the hospital at the Riga Eastern Clinical University”. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. Member Zarina, Orlova, Arthur Rubika, Raimonds Rubika and Tutinas, Minister of Transport Uldis Augums About airBaltic’s investment in the Pilot Academy’s subsidiary airBaltic Training. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but the oral Members do not wish to ask further questions. On the question of Member Pimenova, Arthur Rubika, Tutina, Morozova and Potapkinas, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis, about the implementation of the task given in the law “Amendments to the Law on Education”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Member Arvil Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs, Orlova, Urbanoviča, Andreja Klementyeva and Morozov, "As regards the avoidance of EM, provide information on the real task of the "control group" and its composition and the subject matter of its inspections". No written answer to the urgent question has been provided. The Minister is on a mission and will not be able to attend for an oral answer. The replies to Members' questions scheduled for today will therefore take place at 5 p.m. Members Pimenov, Potapkin, Mirskis, Cilevičs and Ribakovs submitted the question “On the International Agreements of the Republic of Latvia in the Field of Education”, which we submit to the Minister of Education and Science. Members Morozov, Potapkins, Raimonds Rubiks, Orlovs and Ribakovs submitted the question “On funding for Daugavpils Regional Hospital”, which we are giving a reply to the Prime Minister of Health, Maris Kučinskis. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, Recently, on 11 February, our 35th anniversary was celebrated by our colleague Edgars Putra, and we congratulate him! I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Thank you very much. Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the results of registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U172	Colleagues! Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Dombrava, Artuss Kaimiņš... is, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Ivans Klementjevs, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Kārlis Sergeants and Edvins Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-02-15-PT12-465-U173	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
