ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! Excellency! Mr. Foreign Minister! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can start the 25 January sitting of the Saeima. First of all, the amendments tabled to the agenda of the parliamentary sitting. Kleinberga, Viļums, Ruks, Krumiņš, Melgailis, Šics and others are asking to make changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Gunars Kūtra, Member of the 12th Saeima of the Republic of Latvia from the office of Secretary of the Saeima”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting, including draft decision on the withdrawal of Gunars Kūtras from the Seimas Secretary of the Republic of Latvia 12. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 27, for - 31. The draft decision shall not be included on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima. Consequently, the next item on the agenda - Election of a member of the Saeima Secretary - is not put to the vote and is not on the agenda. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and includes a statement “On administratively punished Members during the period from 4 September 2017 to 8 January 2018”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” (No 984/Lp12) until 29 January 2018. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the appointment of Ilze Andriškina as a judge of a district (city) court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the appointment of Jolanta Uminska as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting to examine the amended agenda. On the agenda: "Annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union". Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U2	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Presidium! Dear Members and honourable Members, Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pleasure that the foreign policy debate of the Saeima has become an inalienable tradition of Latvian parliamentaryism. It is a moment of the current international system, which helps to better capture new foreign policy challenges and strengthen our national interests in the long term. Basically, the fathers of the State of Latvia have laid values and principles that determine the existence and progress of our country in today's Latvia. Freedom, democracy and the rule of law - these are fundamental values. It is not an empty sound, but a real foundation that forms a modern, democratic and European society in Latvia. On 18 November 1918 the independence of the state of Latvia was not gifted, but was born in battles. In the fights of independence, each and every one of them made sacrifices to create the state of Latvia. Then the work was carried out by diplomats of the new country. ‘ Latvia has completed two stages in its fight for state independence, namely: Latvia's release and Latvia's recognition. Both of these fights are crowned with victory. The first fought with weapons in the hands and the victims of human beings, the second did not demand more than feathers and brain.” It was in this house that the first Latvian Foreign Minister Zigfrīds Anna Meierovics said these words at the meeting of the Constitutional Meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! This year, Latvia's foreign policy is in its second centenary. This is not just a symbolic event. Despite the process of globalisation, each sovereign country will continue to participate in global policy-making, both bilaterally and through international organisations. Latvia is no exception. The world is and will be full of surprises. We often face contradictions in the face of rafted geopolitical choices. Jerusalem's status, Iran's nuclear agreement or the climate agreement are a good example of this. Although we would all like to see international relations as a masterful chess party, they often remind us of the game “Circs”. Hot-blooded rhetoric, the laxity of players or the unsuccessful amount of dice can lead to a stychiic outcome - the will to fly up with white smoke, but often happens as a monkey or a goat drown down. It can play. Honourable Members! Since the restoration of independence in discussions on Latvia's foreign policy objectives and tasks, there are still conflicting views. There are those who regard Latvia as a gateway or bridge, or as a stopway to Russia. And there are those who see Latvia as a full-fledged part of the Western system with its inherent belief in the values of a democratic and legal state. These are mutually exclusive concepts. Since the establishment of Latvia's state state, Latvia's foreign policy has been a constant goal - ensuring the independence of our country, and this goal will always exist. In future, Latvia's foreign policy will continue to be a strong European Union and NATO, strengthening international rule of law and increasing our own prosperity. Latvia has always been in favour of respect for international law, because we know well what brutal force means in international relations. No one has abolished the principles of international law in international relations. And they must be observed! Supporting respect for the principles of international law positions Latvia as a responsible partner of international cooperation. Therefore, Latvia supports strengthening the role of the United Nations, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe in international relations. International law guarantees the territorial integrity of countries. It is crucial for Latvia that this principle is respected, as it is also closely related to the security of Latvia. Latvia will always and in the future stand for the territorial integrity of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. In the future, Latvia will consistently follow the policy of non-recognition of the illegal annexation of Crimea. Ladies and gentlemen! ‘ To get closer, you have to come here, not wait for it to come." These words of Imants Ziedonis well describe the developments and challenges currently taking place in the European Union. Latvia's position in the discussion on the future of the European Union is clear: countries that want to do more should be given the opportunity to build closer cooperation. It is important that such cooperation is open to all Member States. It is in Latvia's interest to be at the heart of Europe. The question is often asked: how common is the European Union? The European Union is also united in 2018. Yes, not everything in the European Union is optimal; sometimes decisions are slow and difficult. They may be delayed, but that does not mean that something is delayed. The essence of the European Union is to do what can be done more effectively and which makes us stronger together. The European Union is not just a single market or an economic union. It is a union of values and laws that is in the interests of our national existence. We are part of a free, democratic world, of European values, that is our European identity, and that is something that needs to be done. An effective European Union creates a strong Latvia. The refugee crisis at the borders of the European Union is still topical. While differences of opinion exist between Member States on the issue of dealing with the migration crisis and the importance of strict fiscal discipline, these will not be issues that will cause insurmountable difficulties for the European Union. The tendencies of populism and radicalism are much more at risk for the unity of the European Union. Therefore, it is not possible at present to talk about the division of the East-West, North-South or Old-New Member States. The dividing line is between responsible politics or populism and chaos. In the coming years, we will have to deal with a number of issues: Brexit, the European Union's multiannual budget and the future of the European Union. I am convinced that we will succeed in finding a mutually acceptable model of relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union after Brexit. The first stage of negotiations has already come to an end, taking into account the fundamental interests of our country, that is, the rights of our citizens. It is now essential to build a close trade and security relationship between the European Union and Great Britain. Latvia must play an active role in strengthening the defence capabilities of the European Union, developing the euro area as well as the digital, energy and transport union. We are open to proposals relating to strengthening the governance and efficiency of the euro area. During the discussions on the European Union's multiannual budget after 2020, Latvia's position should place great emphasis on cohesion and the common agricultural policy. This is important for the development of our region and for balancing living standards. Latvia is ready to engage in further discussions in order to find the right balance between the European Union's internal development objectives and new challenges such as migration and protection. These are just a few, but important issues that will determine foreign and domestic policy choices for a longer period of time. Dear Members, There is no room for compromises on our country's security and defence issues. Only true Latvia's membership of the European Union and NATO guarantees the security and independence of our country. Already this year, we are giving two percent of gross domestic product to protection. It is an important contribution of Latvia to strengthening our own collective defence and that of the Alliance. It is not just a row in accounting, and it is not an end in itself, but a contribution to the development of our capabilities. In order to strengthen resilience to traditional threats and modern challenges, we must continue to increase our national defence and security in the near future. We cannot stop at what has been achieved with regard to NATO's presence in the region either: strengthening NATO's air and maritime defence elements and improving command principles. Today I would like to thank our allies from Canada, Spain, Poland, Slovenia, Italy and Albania for participating in the NATO Battle Group in Latvia. Canada and the United States show real work in strengthening close transatlantic links to collective security. I would also like to thank the Danish and Italian contingent who is taking care of NATO airspace above the Baltic States this year. Latvia is not only a security consumer, it is also a provider; this is demonstrated by our participation in international missions. I therefore thank the representatives of Latvia who are currently participating in military operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, Mali, the Mediterranean and off the coast of Somalia. I also thank our representatives on civilian missions in Ukraine and Georgia. Cooperation between NATO and the European Union is one of Latvia's priorities in security and defence, which needs to be developed. It is also essential for Latvia to promote cross-border military mobility. Closer cooperation between the European Union and NATO on security issues is taking place. The permanent structured cooperation framework, or PESCO, launched last year, is an important step towards strengthening the common security and defence policy of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! We are aware that Russia is close to us geographically, but very far in value. Therefore, relations with this country are being developed both through dialogue where possible and through a policy of deterrence and sanctions for as long as it violates international law and the sovereignty of other countries. The dialogue with Russia is being conducted on issues of practical cooperation between the two countries. Last year, the final documents of the demarcation of the state border between Latvia and Russia were signed. It is a great step not only towards strengthening security in Latvia, but also the need for an effective fight against illegal immigration and organised crime. A subordinate line is needed so that Latvia can fully protect the external borders between NATO and the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Improvements in Latvia's economic competitiveness depend solely on us, but economic growth also depends on external factors. The potential of Latvia's external trade lies both in close markets and in large and rapidly growing regions of the world. Therefore, the internal market of the European Union and, in particular, the Baltic-Nordic region, is increasingly important to us. At the same time, great attention is paid to North America, including China, India, Japan, South-East Asia and the Gulf region. The acquisition of new markets opens up new opportunities for our businesses, makes it possible to increase competitiveness and reduce dependence on politically manipulated markets. In the years to come, it is necessary to work to recognise Latvia in the world with its quality and innovations. Let each activity be accompanied by one important motive from the state, local government or the private sector: we do every work in Latvia qualitatively, honestly and with a high quality, or just good. It is not easy, but it is also not impossible. The centenary of the country in this context is a great opportunity to attract our foreign partners' attention to Latvia's achievements and promote further cooperation in concrete projects in economics, security, culture, education and science. To be dynamic, convincing and highlight Latvia's achievements is the task of the daily work of the foreign service. At the same time, it should be remembered that our diplomats cannot replace the necessary efforts to improve Latvia's competitiveness. Often the most effective reforms are implemented, but if there is an external incentive, not only an acute need. For example, the accession process to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, has helped to introduce the necessary improvements in the financial sector and in the management of public undertakings. In its own sense, it is subject to chaotic change and fragmented measures. This trend also affects the medium-term challenges of Latvia's foreign policy, as continuous changes in one area and lack of improvement in other sectoral policies are obstacles to attracting significant investments and conquering new export markets. Honourable Members! We are a small nation, but a big world. Our cultural and sporting excellence, scientists, students and every professional in the world is making us big. Latvia is big. Our countrymen are united abroad by Latvian language and belonging to their home - Latvia. Our Corporation participates in the preservation and improvement of Latvian identity. It's all our Latvia, and it's all our wealth. The State of Latvia has a duty to protect and care for this wealth. The State of Latvia consistently provides support to the Diaspora Sunday schools around the world in learning Latvian. The state of Latvia is interested in building a clear and predictable long-term relationship with its company, so it is time to prepare a legal basis for supporting the Latvian company. This would be an opportunity to promote the attraction of the potential of the Diaspora to the growth of Latvia and the defence of interests internationally. I would like to thank you for the work that has been done so far and for your mutual support for all the Diaspora organisations in the world. Excellency, honourable Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, Today we stand on the threshold of the anniversary of the international de iure recognition of the Republic of Latvia. On its own behalf and on behalf of the Latvian Foreign Service, I would like to thank the President of Latvia, the Saeima, the Prime Minister, state and local government institutions, non-governmental organisations and social partners, as well as the restorers of our country and, in particular, the diplomats of the state. Thank you to all those who take care of Latvia at home and outside, and to all our friends in the wider world. Thank you for your work. Independence is fought with the heart and guarded by the mind. We will be proud of and praise all the people of Latvia who make our country safer, stronger, better and more beautiful every day! Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U3	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his report. Colleagues, let's start the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U4	Name of the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U5	Colleagues! Is there no objection if the two times of the debate are combined, if necessary?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U6	Are there any objections from Members? Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U7	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr. President. Members of the Saeima! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr Rinkēvičs, for the comprehensive report. Indeed, when Latvia enters the new centenary, it is essential to agree on further foreign policy objectives. Our main responsibility is and remains strengthening the independence and security of Latvia. May every one of us, every family and society as a whole feel secure and secure. The fact that the centenaries of our country can expect to be safe is a huge achievement, a great result of the joint work of Latvian patriots. Soldiers of our own and other NATO member states are strengthening our security on the land of Latvia. Latvia's growing economy, which is supported by growth in Europe, is also a good news for the centenary. We see that Latvia's participation in Western democratic institutions is the right choice. It must remain that way. In difficult times, the task of politicians and diplomats is to preserve and maintain what has been done with great effort and not to allow it to fail. This has its own reasons. At present, the democratic world is threatened by various forces trying to turn it into a narrow-interest deal, cyber attacks, terrorism, violence, the threat that "the nuclear button is always on the table". We have an aggressive power right next to us. Russian military training “Zapad 2017” was a force test for a large-scale conventional war against NATO in Europe and the Baltic seizure. Those who hope to divide the world into spheres of influence by force have not disappeared anywhere. What to do? Only to unite, work together with partners in the European Union and NATO, strengthen the transatlantic link, cooperate with the Baltic and Nordic countries, as well as the Eastern Partnership countries. We sometimes rely too much on and hope that democratic institutions will automatically protect us. In fact, though, we must help to protect them. The rule-based international order needs to be strengthened in all efforts. A law - governed person, not a self - sacrificing one. That is why we are with Ukraine. We must not allow aggression and occupation in Europe to be legitimised. The decision currently taken by the Saeima, calling for sanctions to be imposed on those involved in the Sergey Magnitsk case, is also our basic position by joining other democratic states against violations of human rights and democracy in Russia. NATO is at the heart of the security framework. The NATO Battle Group in Latvia demonstrates the Alliance's capacity. We all remember that, in September, when the Canadian Senate was speaking to us here from the parliamentary tribunal, the Spyker confirmed that the Canadian presence in Latvia demonstrates Canada's commitment to NATO values and long-term commitments towards Latvia. Once again, thank you very much to our allies from Canada, the United States and Europe. I would also like to thank the Baltic-Nordic Spekers for their strong assurance from the United States Congress in summer that the United States is committed to Article 5 of the NATO Agreement. It is important for this Saeima, as well as for the next, to continue the active dialogue with the United States Congress and the Canadian partners. In the field of defence, the Baltic-Nordic cooperation must continue and be further activated, but the future defence dimension of the European Union, which was also mentioned by the Foreign Minister, must be developed by developing both defence capabilities and in line with NATO's territorial security plans. Let us keep in mind that the important task of NATO is to extend the presence of alliance forces in the Baltic Sea and Air as well as to reform European border crossing procedures so that NATO military equipment can cross national borders much faster. There is great satisfaction that Latvia has achieved a shift of two per cent of gross domestic product to defence. This decision should be maintained for that parliamentary term, which will adopt the budget for 2019. Estonia and Lithuania already spend more than two percent of gross domestic product on defence. Latvia should also gradually think about a greater contribution, because security objectives are, however, the same for us all in the Baltic States. We in Latvia know what solidarity is. We are helping others and will continue to participate in international missions and operations. Solidarity is also a key word in the European Union. For Latvia, the European Union means much more than just the market and money. We need the European Union as a union of values. This year, negotiations on the future budget of the European Union after 2020 will begin and Member States will seek to strike a balance between all needs - cohesion, agriculture, security and migration issues. We must be aware that after Brexit Latvia there will be less European Union money. What we expect from the European Union is cohesion. Among Latvians, support for the European Union has increased significantly, seeing that, following the Kremlin's aggression against Ukraine, we in the European Union have been able to be united against the aggressor and retain sanctions against Russia until the Minsk agreements have been fulfilled. We must not split. Brexit was harsh. Politicians woke up with bruises and pups, experience what games with populism meant. Nevertheless, the European Union has managed to reach agreement on essential issues. We look forward to the current dialogue between Germany and France, both of which are and will be the engine of Europe. And Latvia must be at the core of the European Union - there is no doubt about this. We are already there, both in the Schengen area and in the euro area, and we need to be active, both in developing economic and monetary union and in addressing security and defence issues. China's rapid growth leads it to look for ways to enter the world's economic and political life and, at the same time, to maintain its existing international order. China's constructive engagement is not only important in the area of climate change. Right now, when we visited China, we, the Baltic-Nordic Parliamentary Sparrows, have seen China's openness to cooperation with our region and the European Union as a whole. In particular, I would like to stress that knowledge of Latvians living abroad is very necessary in Latvia's economic and political life. Diaspora has great potential for Latvia. Mr. Foreign Minister! The formation of the Diaspora law has been initiated in the Saeima. Foreign Affairs Commission and Members are working on this. I know that our compatriots are very much waiting for its adoption abroad. Honourable Members! Continuity is important in foreign policy. And in this respect, foreign policy has the most direct link with domestic policy. 12. Members of the Saeima have played an active part in the formulation of the country's foreign policy, and thank you, colleagues, for that. This autumn the voters of the Saeima will decide again who will further shape and what Latvian foreign and internal policy will be. During the pre-election period it is necessary to take into account the informational attacks from the outside of the war; the fact that separate Russian media and agents of the economic and political influence of the Kremlin will be involved in the electoral battles in Latvia. It is expected that false reports will be spread to denigrate our country and also our politicians. The threat to the independence of the State is also the attempt to steal the state and corruption. Corruption can be a very powerful tool in the hands of the Kremlin. I believe that Latvian voters are mature enough to decide in favour of a democratic, legal, socially responsible and national state. I believe that when we decide on the future of Latvia, we will not slip on a banana bark and we will not be stunned by the magnificent fireworks in the centre of the capital. The reality is complicated. The task of both foreign policy and internal policy is to prevent foreign influence from taking place in our country. Our aim is clear and it is an independent, democratic, national, safe and prosperous country. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U8	Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima. Name in the debate: Ojārs Eriks Kalniņš, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U9	Are there any objections to the use of both speaking times? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U10	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Dear Ministers, Dear Bureau! Colleagues! Your honors! Ladies and gentlemen! We celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Latvia this year, thanks to the fact that 27 years ago the Latvian people restored our national independence. If there weren't events in 1991, then this country wouldn't exist and this Saeima wouldn't get there. The fact that we are once again debating Latvia's foreign policy priorities in the Saeima today is in itself a proof that our foreign policy course has been correct in the last 27 years. In the restored Latvia, we have achieved the most important foreign policy objectives: we have maintained Latvia's independence, promoted a safer international environment for our welfare, and have opened up all the practical, commercial and cultural opportunities of the world for our citizens. All this has been achieved thanks to our good relations with most countries in the world, participation in key international organisations and active role in the European Union and NATO. Latvia, which celebrates its 100th anniversary this year, is well known and respected almost worldwide. Our security has never been as widely and strongly supported as today. Thanks to our NATO membership, the 27 countries have promised to defend Latvia against any aggression. More than 20 of them, including the US and Canada, have deployed their armed forces in our region to directly protect our security. Looking from Latvia's interests, NATO policy in the Baltic region is one of the greatest diplomatic success in the last 10 years. Of course, there is a security threat. Russia's aggressive behaviour in Georgia and Ukraine, international terrorism, uncontrolled flows of refugees and proliferation of nuclear weapons - all of which are huge challenges for all countries in the world. In addition, there are new challenges of the 21st century - hybrid war threats, cyber security and strategic communication. Latvia can avoid such threats only in close cooperation with other countries of the world. That is why our diplomacy and participation in international organisations are so important. As always, the main goal of our foreign policy is to promote the well-being of every Latvian citizen. Welfare is only possible in a secure environment, therefore it is being maximised by the successfully developed multi-lateral foreign policy course of Latvia. In any sector, we work with all possible partners. Every Latvian citizen has this opportunity, and all Latvian foreign policy objectives are dedicated to broadening these opportunities. If we want to cooperate with the world, we need to protect it at the same time so that it is safe, predictable and stable. Solidarity with our allies - it is not an empty phrase; it is a concrete strategic action. It is in Latvia's interest to have a global order based on international law, mutual trust and common values. That is why NATO and the European Union are so important for Latvia. And yet our foreign policy goes further than the European Union and NATO. Latvia has taken a significant place in the Far East. Our bilateral relations with China, Japan and South Korea continue to deepen in all sectors. And more and more it follows with a special interest in the rest of the world. We are also a significant leader in relations in Central Asia in Europe. Our regional foreign policy has also been successful. Latvia's cooperation with the Baltic and Nordic countries within NB8 is another foreign policy success story. All that is reflected in the report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is evidence that we have taken the right course of foreign policy and must continue to do so. If we ask what Latvia's current foreign policy specifically gave to the people of today, there are several answers – a safe and stable country to live in; unlimited growth opportunities for any individual or company that wants to develop at the world level. Our foreign policy has opened up markets, audiences and created cooperation partners in very many countries. Today, every citizen of Latvia has the opportunity to travel for business, educational, cultural, sporting or tourism purposes to all countries with which Latvia has developed relations. If I am not mistaken, there are more than 170 countries. The security, prosperity and development of citizens contribute to a successful foreign policy. Of course, this great freedom and mobility has contributed to one undesirable effect: our compatriots continue to move to other countries. And there are two possible solutions. First. Do everything to make fewer people drive away from Latvia and to return more. But the second is to use this vast, rich and experienced international resource to promote Latvia's interests in the world. Every foreign Latvian is a potential partner in economic, scientific, educational and cultural matters. We need to strengthen our links with, and help us with, the Diaspora organisations and individuals. Today Latvia can only flourish and flourish if we realise that we live in a globalised world, and only if we use all our diplomatic abilities and means to ensure that this globalisation serves our interests as Latvia. In my opinion, the last 27 years of independence have proven that Latvia's existing foreign policy is doing so. It is balanced, principled and capable of defending Latvian interests anywhere in the world. It is for whom we can thank and with which we can be proud this anniversary. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U11	Thank you, Mr. Kalnins. Name: Lolita Chiganė, President of the European Commission on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mr. President of the Republic! Ministers! Foreign ambassadors! In 2017, the Commission of European Cases examined 131 positions of the Republic of Latvia on various issues of the European Union. If we count the year, then in fact every third day we have come together, discussed, thought and sometimes corrected the positions of the Republic of Latvia in the European Affairs Commission. I mean, we like to work. When there was a debate on the possible withdrawal of some countries from the European Commission, we heard that there were countries that would like to "take back" controls. We never had to complain about this in Latvia. Because we in the Commission on European Affairs are already in this control position thanks to timely and intelligent decisions on how the Saeima engages in European policy-making. We see how European Union policies are developing, we are following them from the very beginning, in the intermediate stage and also in the end. So we have no surprise when any new European Union policies come to us in the Saeima and must be incorporated into our laws. At a recent conference, where representatives of the European Commission for European Affairs gathered, a colleague from another country said: “We also wanted to take over this Scandinavian model, but then we were afraid that there would be a lot of work to be done.” But we're not afraid of doing a lot of work. That is why I would like to say a great deal of thanks to the Members of the Committee on European Affairs, colleagues, for the fact that we have not been afraid of doing a great deal of work in this House's last foreign policy debate. Our discussions are intense, intellectually saturated, and we are able to debate meaningfully all kinds of issues: whether it is climate change, whether it be fisheries policy, waste management, or the external relations of the European Union, for example, with our Eastern partners. Colleagues, thank you very much for these intense and intellectual discussions. For me, this has been a very interesting and very intense time. And finally, thinking that we are deciding on a European Union policy on behalf of the Saeima every third day in the European Commission, it must be concluded that in fact we, the public, often do not think about what the European Union means to us. Because it is so common that the European Union has a say in many areas. I would even like to compare it with a lovely ometh that glows in our kitchen. In the kitchen there is always a light, a name of which the fire smells like an apple bread in the kitchen, and it is so used and nice. Only when the moment comes and these omites are suddenly no longer there, we understand what it really meant for us. Fortunately, in this situation, the European Union is certainly not the omite who will leave. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Speaker of the Saeima have already emphasised that we have chosen to be at the heart of the European Union and we must therefore ensure that the European Union continues to live, expand, develop and benefit the well-being and peace of our society and stability in Europe. We have a duty to talk to our societies and to explain the role of the European Union. This is our duty, because we are now convinced that words mean that bad and angry words about the European Union are important, and we need to be aware of that. We must tell our societies that Brussels is not "we" and "they". We have to tell our society that Brussels - these are all of us together. Both the Speaker of the Saeima, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Mr Kalniņš have already stressed in their speeches that our relations with the European Union have lasted 14 years. To think a little bit about what it means to be 14 years, I looked for a wedding jubilee catalogue, and it said that the 14th - century marriage was an ivory wedding. It is symbolised by white, and it is the moment that the spouses have cleared their bad habits over the years and become more sensitive and understanding of each other. I think, a little bit of a joke, that is certainly a very good description of our current relations with the European Union. As has already been said, we want to be at the heart of the European Union, and we need to contribute to the future of the European Union. Dear colleagues, The Speaker of the Saeima has already mentioned a public survey conducted in 2017 - a survey on our public opinion of the European Union. Peace and security in Europe are a key issue for our societies in relation to the European Union. Our society understands very well: if Europe is not at peace and security, then we will not be at peace and security either. All this is directly linked. And that is why I too want to mention very briefly the very important issue of values. The European Union is, of course, a welfare and economic organisation. However, it is also a common organisation of values. Let us remember that, when we join the European Union, we have signed up to values such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, including the rights of minorities. Dear colleagues, If there were any country in the European Union that would restrict and build up its civil society, the media, its judges, it would have a direct impact on how we can live together and how we can trust each other. We therefore need to preserve these values in our own homes and ensure that they are preserved and honored elsewhere. And that is very well emphasised in our Foreign Minister's report that we are interested in the European Union being and remaining a union of values. Finally. I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs very much for its openness and readiness to discuss with Members of the European Affairs Commission all the issues under its responsibility. Thank you once again to the Members of the Committee on European Affairs for their willingness to get up early on Friday because when perhaps some other colleagues go on Friday to the regions or in some other way, we come and work closely. I would like to thank the Saeima Presidency very much for supporting the activities of the Committee on European Affairs, because we are doing much more than just looking at the positions of the Republic of Latvia. I would also like to thank the European Commission's representation in Latvia very much, because it has given us the opportunity to discuss meaningfully with the European Commissioners responsible for the specific policy areas, and I would also like to thank the ambassadors of the European Union and other countries for the open dialogue and friendly relations that we have formed during this time. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U13	Thank you to the Chair of the Committee on European Affairs. On behalf of the Unity of the Group. - Member Hosams Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U14	Good morning, Mr. President-in-Office. Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Mr. Rinkēvičs! Ministers! Excellency! Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Unity I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Members of the Saeima's Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and the chairmen of these committees, Latvian diplomats and the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for their work in strengthening and protecting Latvia's positions, as well as the absence of Latvia's name, work and thoughts in the world, especially in this year of the centenary of Latvia! I would also like to thank all foreign diplomats for friendship, cooperation, support and advice. We believe that 2017 has been one of the most successful years in Latvia's foreign policy. At the start of the centenary of Latvia, we are proud of Latvia as an important international partner, not only with the support of allies, but also with our responsibilities towards them. We are very pleased that this report is aimed at the future, highlighting one of the most important tasks of Latvia's foreign policy - strengthening belongings and ties with people outside the country. In a time of globalisation, these people are our wealth and an integral part of society. Latvia has a duty to involve these people in events of national importance. Last year Latvia has been looking for new export markets, helping its entrepreneurs to realize their services and goods. In support of international sanctions against our eastern neighbour, we have also allowed ourselves to say that we stand up for democratic values, respect for human rights and strongly condemn the disregard of national borders recognised internationally and any violation of fundamental rights. We have created a common opportunity for our people to adapt to the situation and to learn new export markets. I would like to emphasise not only the involvement of state officials, but also of Parliamentaries and businessmen in promoting this cooperation, by establishing close economic ties, including with a number of Asian, Gulf and African countries. The task of Latvia's state is to provide opportunities for honest entrepreneurs to develop their business and to ensure that support is provided also in those countries that are ready to help them adapt and expand their activities. The Unity of the Group has always entered and will continue to do everything to strengthen Latvia's place and role in the common European family - a secure, strong, stable and united European Union - in defending our common interests and values, which are the basis for the creation of a united Europe. Today, Europe and a large part of the world are being shaken by the threat of populism, where people are trying to take away or limit the opportunity to decide their own future, thoughts and actions by suppressing them with empty and short-term slogans, threatening stability and growth. Public awareness is one of the greatest challenges, the ability to receive accurate and unmodified information on developments within and outside the country. Our biggest challenge is to dispel the myth that sometimes appears in public space, about Latvia as a failed state. We must be able to resist false news, which is distributed with the aim of destabilising Latvia's internal political situation. We are pleased that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has so far shown active and genuine resistance to the spread of false news, trying to disprove them with every effort. When we talk about security, we can say that Latvia has been not only a consumer of security, but also a promoter of security. The presence of our allies and their repeated statements about Latvia as a reliable ally also proves this today. In future, Latvia will continue to be tasked with fulfilling its commitments, so that they are not just empty words, but concrete actions. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign stability is the state's ability to protect its citizens and represent their interests internationally. I want to believe that we will support anyone who is willing to go outside Latvia in order to develop his skills, businesses or skills, thus bringing Latvia's name to the world. We do not want to see that representatives of individual politicians, parties, organisations or municipalities, as well as other individuals, would oppose self-determination by implementing individual foreign policy contrary to the interests of the Latvian state. The next hundred years... (Applause) In the next hundred years, we must work to be constantly proud of Latvia as a country that actively defends its interests in the international environment and is trusted in an ally to the community of democratic countries. I thank our Minister for Foreign Affairs once again. I wish you strength, energy and health! And continue to represent the name of Latvia all over the world! Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U15	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance - Member Jānis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U16	Ladies and gentlemen! Europe faces many challenges: the conflict between its left and its traditional values; the low birth rate of Europeans; mass immigration from third countries, terrorism and the expansion of Islam; the different standard of living in Europe, resulting from the relocation of millions of Austrians to Western Europe; and a nuclear-armed aggressor state in the east of Europe. In this situation, Latvians, as a numerically small nation, must act wisely to ensure the development of our people, our language and our culture through the centuries. For a long time there have been conflicts between the right or representatives of traditional values on the one hand and the left or liberals and socialists on the other. Some are based on the values that have passed the test of time, trying to preserve their identity and the future of the peoples of Europe. The other is trying to destroy the identity of the peoples, promoting the mixing of peoples to create a single grey society. The German Social Democratic leader Martin Schulz, who called for the creation of the United States of Europe by 2025, is one of the far left politicians. Another example is Jean-Claude Juncker, who not only promoted immigration and the division of Europe on the issue of the redistribution of asylum seekers, but allowed Poland and other Eastern European countries to be described as racist only because they do not want to receive migrants from regions of the world with a high level of terrorism. It must be made clear that this is a harmful activity on the part of high officials of the European Union. These people are disintegrating Europe by their actions. They do not have the right to impose their subjective will on European Member States. These officials must not be disdainful towards the Member States. The citizens of Poland, Latvia and other countries have not voted in favour of Juncker. This official should be aware that he has dubious legitimacy and should therefore not interfere with sovereign decisions of states. Latvia is interested in the unity of the European Union and in the future there is also a union of sovereign states, not a single country. Without Latvians, there would be no meaning for Latvia. Similarly, without Europeans, there would be no sense for Europe. Latvia has managed to significantly increase the birth rate, but they still do not reach a sufficient level to ensure the nation's generation. Despite this fact, we are in front of many other European nations, which have a much lower birth rate. The difference in living standards in Europe, which has the effect of moving millions of Austrians to Western Europe, is no less important. We are pleased that the National Association managed to achieve that the foreign policy report records that during this year it is necessary to adopt the Diaspora law. However, the solution to the demographic challenges and the different standards of living in the European Union should be sought not only at the level of the Member States, but at the level of the whole of Europe. That is our common problem. Instead of dealing with minor matters, the European Commission and Parliament should focus on these problems. The National Association considers that immigration from third countries of the world cannot be a solution to these problems, regardless of whether immigrants are economic migrants or asylum seekers; therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs report called for the position that Latvia will not support the proposal to participate in the new asylum re-allocation scheme. We believe that the European Commission's approach to those Member States of the European Union that have refused to receive asylum seekers is an intervention in sovereign decisions by the Member States. It is clear and clear that on these issues we will be with those Member States that will not receive immigrants. This position is supported by the people of our country. ‘ In a Eurobarometer survey, 86 percent of our country’s population said that immigrants do not give the country anything. So what else are we talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Latvia must either give up completely or reduce to a minimum the number of migrants arriving from third countries. We cannot close our eyes to Islamic terrorism. This is a very serious problem. Over the years, these criminals have killed several hundred and injured thousands of Europeans. Latvian citizens are also not protected against terrorists, given the free movement of people within the European Union. European countries should stop training with these radicals. It is necessary to act decisively, both at national and international level, before they commit actual crimes. We have a nuclear-armed aggressor state in our neighbourhood, which has killed thousands of people in recent years and occupied Ukrainian and Georgian regions. It is an economically weak country. Russia's gross domestic product is negligible. Latvia's gross domestic product per capita is 40 percent higher than that of Russia. However, despite the weakness of the economy, Russia invests enormous amounts in the armed forces and tries to influence other countries with soft arms of power. Among the objectives are the countries in our region where Russia wants to strengthen its influence. Latvia is threatened by many things, but at the moment, only Russia is facing a real threat to the independence of our country. Only a blind person can see it. Latvia will hang its foreign policy in order to mitigate this threat. Close cooperation with those countries that are interested in ensuring that the Baltic States are economically strong and independent from Russia is important to Latvia. Close cooperation with our strategic partner is very important to us. In international institutions, Latvia needs to support the position of the United States, and it is essential for Latvia to receive the support of the United States on matters important to us. The National Association has achieved that the report includes Latvia as a candidate for the UN Security Council seat. This priority is a question of Latvia's security interests, so it will receive the attention of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the coming years. Latvia supports initiatives aimed at achieving more effective work of the UN Security Council, preventing the application of veto rights in cases of mass crime and restoring trust in the Security Council as an institution aimed at ensuring peace and security in the world. It is in Latvia's interest to have a strong NATO organisation. The Baltic States, Poland, Romania, Great Britain, Greece and the US spend two percent of their gross domestic product on defence. We also call on the other NATO countries to increase the defence budget so that NATO becomes even stronger. We need to develop particularly close cooperation with countries in our region - Poland, Ukraine and others - which face similar security and economic challenges. The ability of these countries to cooperate among themselves will determine European geopolitical policies during this century. The National Association encouraged to emphasise that the promotion of Latvia's exports, as well as its business activities in the United States and Canada, as well as attracting investment from these countries in the Latvian economy, is a priority for Latvia's external economy. They are large and rich countries that take practical steps to ensure the independence of the Baltic States. We also need to strengthen economic cooperation with these countries. Further cooperation with the United Kingdom should also be highlighted. We must respect the British people's decision to withdraw from the European Union. The fact is that Britain is still a member of NATO, which also contributes to strengthening the security of the Baltic States. Let us not support any claim aimed at weakening Britain as a result of the referendum decision. It is not in the interests of either Latvia or our allies. Could I unite... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U17	Do Members have reservations if both speaking times are combined? There is no objection. Keep going!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U18	The National Alliance has, for a long time, highlighted and taken preventive steps to mitigate hybrid threats. Whether the attack takes place in cyberspace or it is propaganda campaigns against Latvia's state from foreign paid public organizations or media, the fight for human minds will continue. We will not allow democracy to be misused against democracy itself. Ladies and gentlemen! 100 years ago, our country was established. Latvian soldiers won freedom. When entering the centenary, Latvia aims to make our country strong, fair, Latvian and independent. For our people, its language and culture to exist and develop through the centuries. To make our countrymen feel secure and to live in prosperity. Latvian policy in the coming years will focus on achieving the objective of the State enshrined in the Constitution. God bless Latvia! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U19	Thank you. on behalf of the Group. - Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U20	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Dear Ministers, Excellency! Welcome! Honourable Members! The first lines of the annual report on Latvia's foreign policy state that it is in Latvia's interest to maintain and develop the current international system. At the same time, it is clear and indisputable that the security of the Baltic region depends on the interests of the US and the UK. The challenges of foreign policy include changes in the global economic system due to the rapid development of the countries of China, India, the Republic of Korea and East Asia. It has been said that we are now living in a completely different socio-economic system with new, previously unknown challenges. We see that the European Union is no longer the union of countries in which Latvia joined in 2004. The new US priorities related to the changes in US defence policy and domestic policy, as well as the UK's withdrawal from the European Union, have raised the issue of European security, and the issue of establishing a common defence force for the European Union is once again on the agenda. Until 2016, Latvia was in the number of main opponents of this idea. But now, in most EU countries, the political elite believes that such an army would help the European Union to establish a common foreign and security policy. The EU's official representative, Margaritis Šinas, has announced that the establishment of a European army would save the European Union up to €120 billion a year. The Macron Plan and the Juncker Plan provide for a European federalisation. Martin Schulz made a statement that by 2025 the European Union should turn into a United States of Europe. At present, issues related to the increase in inequality and thus to the implementation of the single European social policy are becoming increasingly topical. Calls are being made for the development and implementation of a common tax system throughout the European Union. All of this leads to the conclusion that "preserve and develop the current international system" reminds us of the plan "let us hope for their best". In order to gain the Latvian foreign policy strategy, we must learn to look into the future and acknowledge that the world is changing dramatically. And over time, the stages of these changes are getting shorter and shorter. It is not only the processes within Europe and relations with partners of the curtain that affect the security and development of Latvia. Now we can see the beginning of a new resistance - the geopolitical opposition between China and the US. There is no reason to hope that it will develop in accordance with the scenarios described in the books of history. China has consistently implemented the ‘Yellow and Road’ initiative and has now announced its plans to resist the US hegemony, namely, China is proposing a new initiative, the ‘Governor of Humanity’ initiative. This initiative was presented by Chinese leader Sji Džynpin in Beijing last December to more than 200 political parties from various countries around the world. Delegates of three Latvian parties, including representatives of the Prime Minister's party, also participated in this forum. However, already in January this year, the US Ministry of Defence published a new military strategy in which China was ranked as the first US strategic competitor. Russia is second, followed by Iran and North Korea. The United States has the right to identify risks and its opponents for itself. But we must remember that over the past eight years not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also three Latvian governments have actively developed their relations with China, which has assumed the role of coordinator in the 16+1 transit dialogue. We hosted the China Prime Minister Li Kecjana in Riga and organised the China-Central and Eastern European Group of States Dialogue Summit. The government has repeatedly called on entrepreneurs to focus on new directions, promised to open up the Chinese market, to open up container trains along the “new silky road”. How will our priorities change now because the existing security guarantor and our current strategic partner have declared our potential partner their main competitor and threat? Most of the report on the opening of new markets is devoted to cooperation with China. But is the government ready to make a commitment now to defend Latvia's transit and business interests and to guarantee that it will do everything to maintain good relations with China? Will Latvia's prospects not become hostages to the Chinese and US geopolitical resistance? In the interests of Latvia's transit, clarity may be necessary not only in relation to China. Kazakhstan has also been referred to as our strategic transit partner on a number of occasions. In January, 22 billion dollars from Kazakhstan's stabilisation fund were arrested according to the Moldovan businessman's request. Is it worth noting that the arrest of such an amount in Kazakhstan's state accounts does not indicate a good prospect of relations between countries? What if in future the US decides to introduce sanctions against Kazakhstan, which is one of the main strategic competitors of China and Russia, namely the US,? Hopeful to maintain the current system of the world only because it is convenient for us, do not try to look into the future, to give up active action and just to respond to changes taking place around the world and in Europe, without creating our own policies, means to be short-sighted. We cannot dictate the agenda in the world, but we can do it in our own country according to our own geographical position and our own interests. At a time when Europe and the world are changing rapidly, we need an open discussion and a clear understanding at all levels of what our priorities will be: are we prepared to support European federalisation, support the creation of a European army, defend the implementation of a common European social policy and support the harmonisation of the tax system? Do we want to maintain strategic relations with China, Kazakhstan and the countries of Central Asia if our overseas partners end up in conflict with these countries? Will we stand up for dialogue with the great neighbour in the east, or will we continue to isolate it further? Unfortunately, every year, the geography of the report continues to narrow. Russia is no longer mentioned as a trading partner. In Europe, we are beginning to restrict ourselves in the form of NB8, the transit direction west-east has already disappeared from the transport sector and only the direction north-south has remained. Logistics are limited to Baltic-Scandinavia logistics and warehouse services. And there is an ever-increasing section dedicated to the work of the Diaspora abroad. I would very much not want China to disappear from the report next year and the whole foreign policy to turn into work with our emigrants. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U21	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/ Farmers' Union, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U22	Dear President, Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Excellency! Prime Ministers! Colleagues! The main call of the Greens/Farmers Union in the debate will be to continue to work purposefully on the representation of Latvia's external economic interests and to continue the strongest cooperation with our strategic partners in the field of security within NATO. At European Union level, it will be most important in the near future to work to defend our economic interests in the context of the European Union's budget for the next programming period, with particular emphasis on the common agricultural policy and the support of the Cohesion Fund for regional policy. We would like to welcome the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Embassy of Latvia in the preparation of the last visits of the senior state officials. It is welcomed by Latvian entrepreneurs. During these visits delegations were accompanied by Latvian entrepreneurs, and the embassies offered a wide range of opportunities for entrepreneurs to establish contacts. It is important that work continues in a targeted way after the visits - the work on the opportunities for economic cooperation identified during the political dialogue and their maximum full use. It is important that our interests do not remain on paper, in beautiful words, but that this is followed by concrete works, real daily work in dialogue with businessmen. At the same time, we would like to remind you that Latvia does not have an embassy in certain important European countries. We believe that the issue of the embassy network should be discussed and that potential businesses, cooperation with rapidly developing countries should be taken into account as a basis for the embassy to also serve as a basis for supporting entrepreneurship. We are convinced that Latvia can serve as an innovation platform in Northern Europe. Latvia has all the preconditions for becoming a “magnet” for innovation activities in Northern Europe. We believe that the main message of Latvia to promote economic cooperation in foreign markets is: our work is aimed at connectivity, the concept of a data-based nation, integration into global value chains and the development of contacts with large international companies. I note to connectivity two aspects: (1) transit, logistics and tourism promotion; (2) digital connectivity, the emphasis on areas of smart specialisation - the bioeconomy (traditional sector in Latvia accounts for about 36 per cent of exports); biomedicals, medical technologies, smart materials (for future growth sectors where we see potential); smart energy and ICT (sectors with significant horizontal impact). The involvement of Latvian and foreign universities in the implementation of joint research projects is also very important. The government has also developed the concept of a Date-based nation, the three basic principles of which are: 1) free access to public data; 2) public education and participation through open data; 3) development of innovative products through public services for product approval. When Latvia is in the European Union, we can also ensure more efficient storage and distribution of goods in the Baltic States and Scandinavia, as well as convenient storage of goods before delivery to other countries. These and other developments aim to successfully position Latvia as an attractive environment for business. Environmental issues are always important for the Union of Greens/Farmers, so we believe that cross-border cooperation in the field of environmental control and protection, as well as environmental protection in the Baltic Sea, should be encouraged. I would like to mention the context of the Diaspora in the drawing of the centenary of Latvia. People who are currently professionally successful outside Latvia, for example in international corporations, can help us with contacts and experience so that we develop cooperation with these important international players. It is a common opportunity for Latvians both in Latvia and abroad to promote Latvia's growth and prosperity. At the same time, in the context of the report, we must ask questions: what is the motive behind the centenary's foreign policy, and what is the message of our centenary's foreign policy? In this report, we do not see a clear message and an answer to these questions. We also want to defend the interests of Latvian citizens in other countries as effectively and quickly as possible. Like us, we defend the interests of our partners. For example, Latvia's blacklist, which prohibits entry, includes people who have caused harm to citizens of other countries. That's good. But why has this list not yet included officials of other countries who have done harm to Latvian citizens? For example, there are countries where our citizens have been deprived of investment and are sentenced to inadequate prison sentences, but there is no follow-up on our part. I would also like to mention the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Undoubtedly, we are facing a change in the context of Brexit. In this case, we have the opportunity to position Latvia as an EU Member State, a euro area country that offers a stable business environment. It is necessary to talk specifically and proactively to those foreign companies that want to develop their activities outside London. This is particularly true of the Asian regional corporations that have so far been based on London in the European Union's single market. And it’s not just a call – “Look at Latvia!” No, no! This means that we carefully assess what interest this corporation is in what are the vital factors in its decision making and come with a specific offer. This will, of course, once again require coordinated action by several ministries and agencies. But this can be the opportunity of our small country and a test of the effective functioning of public administration. We want the Brexit process to be both controlled and as clear as possible. It is in Latvia's interest for the European Union to be strong, prosperous and secure after the change. It has to be said that in relation to Brexit, the Greens/Farmers Union first puts the interests of Latvian citizens, who have chosen Great Britain as their home country. We will take care and stand up for their interests to be defended at the highest level. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that the Union of Greens/farmers considers the security of Latvia and the defence of economic interests to be priority areas in foreign policy. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U23	Mr Viļuma, will you have enough debates with 10 minutes, or will you want to combine the times of debates? So that's 10 minutes. We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the Group of the Regions of Latvia - Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U24	Dear President, Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Prime Ministers! Foreign representatives! Ladies and gentlemen! In the opinion of the Group of the Regions of Latvia on Latvia's foreign policy, I would like to touch on some very practical issues. First of all, cooperation between the Baltic States and the European Union's future budget. If time is running out (but probably it will not be left), I will also try to say very briefly about the parliamentary group in support of Russian civil society. I'll start with the simplest. Baltic cooperation. The report states that this year Latvia will start holding the Presidency of the Council of the Baltic Sea States. It is essential that this organisation carries out practical projects to strengthen the sustainability, security and identity of the region. The priorities include building and preserving the cultural heritage of the Baltic Sea region. This progress towards practical projects in the field of culture is certainly welcome. We have also talked about this in the Baltic Assembly - the joint cooperation organisation of the three Baltic parliamentarians - and its resolution already includes the task of the responsible ministries of the three countries to ensure proactively the transfer of even a small amount of funding for the development and implementation of joint projects of international importance. So far, within the framework of the Baltic Assembly, we have awarded awards every year for achievements in various fields, including culture. However, this has not been enough to initiate closer cooperation with our immediate neighbours. Therefore, action must be stepped up and seed money, or impetus, should be given at an early stage to strengthen closer links. In order to keep the cooperation between the three Baltic sisters out of the memory of the Baltic Way, the Livonia, the Sun War, or even earlier events, it is important to build such closer cooperation (the Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) in the field of culture, as this will also help to achieve a common understanding in content and in economically more intensive sectors (protection, health, various economic areas such as infrastructure, start-ups and so on, and so on). We really need to start working with other Baltic countries to do certain things, not just talk about it! A good example is already the joint procurement in the health sector (in particular, the purchase of vaccines), which also made significant financial savings in the state budget. If we are talking about the area of direct responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then in the context of the three Baltic countries, I call for closer cooperation in the organisation of embassy work. Perhaps I have simplified everything too much, but I think it would be more strategic and cheaper in a number of countries within the European Union (and not only) to have an embassy or consulate, not for each of them, but for each of them - the three Baltic States. It would also be a concrete example for the whole world and a model for real cooperation between the Baltic States. And, at the end of this point, I would also like to mention the communication with the Diaspora. If, in Ireland, Britain or perhaps another country where every Baltic nation has more of its own nationals, there are grounds for each country to act individually, then let me say that in many countries, too, a greater result can be achieved through cooperation in this area. All the more so, even if this particular report stresses that everything is based on "the initiative of the migrant communities and the capacity to organise themselves". However, in order for the same human activity to be as effective as possible, a clear and appropriate support system must be put in place. In various discussions within individual commissions it has been repeatedly stressed that one responsible ministry should be established for the issues of the Diaspora, as currently they are the responsibility of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Economics and municipalities (and indirectly the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development). The report mentions the need to develop and adopt a specific law on the Diaspora of Latvia. As far as I understand, some colleagues in the Saeima have already taken this issue seriously, and that is welcome. I can assure you that the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia will certainly support the promotion of such a law in the Saeima. The report states that the new Diaspora Policy Planning document will be drawn up only for two years - in 2019 and 2020. In my opinion, this is too short a time limit. I think it should be extended for at least four years, so until 2022. Just don't you want to have this kind of tumult every year: what are we going to do next? The second big issue that I would like to make on behalf of the Group of the Regions of Latvia to speak briefly is the process of drawing up the next budget of the European Union. The report states: "Latvia supports the principle that funding for new EU priorities should be balanced with funding for existing priorities. This is particularly important because the objective - convergence or reduction of inequality between the Member States of the European Union - has not yet been achieved." The new budget of the European Union "after 2020 must strike an effective balance between funding for regional development co-financing" and other objectives (including, of course, security and defence objectives). It is to be congratulated that these issues are discussed and coincided with the priorities of the Latvian Association of Regions not only at international but also at internal political level. Thus, the principle of convergence must also be strictly observed in the way our government is acting, planning the overall development of the country. That is to say, if we ask of Europe for something, then it must be carried out in our own homes. The section of the report on the Baltic Sea Council also states that Latvia will now be actively involved in the development of the Baltic Sea Strategy and Tactics and Vision. I invite you to look at the illustrations. We certainly see the Baltic Sea region not as a monocentric region, but as a polycentric region, and we call for this principle to be respected both within the framework of the Nordic countries, namely the Baltic Sea region, and also, as I said, in the development of Latvia and small areas of cooperation, as the Ministry calls them. On behalf of the Group of the Regions of Latvia, I call on both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the government as a whole not to be afraid to take greater initiatives to implement practical ideas at the level of the Baltic Sea region and the three Baltic States regarding ideas of cultural space development and awareness of all Baltic people, education of each other, as well as coordination of joint actions to ensure the efficiency of foreign services, of course, in communication with the entire Baltic community in Europe, America and elsewhere. In turn, while working on the common policy priorities of the European Union, we wish the government to succeed in defending the interests of small countries and the principles of smooth development, which we call for not only in the context of Europe, but also here - Latvia. On behalf of the Group of the Regions of Latvia, I thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U25	Thank you. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the statement to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U26	Good morning, honourable colleagues! A meeting of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science will take place in the red hall in five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U27	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U28	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ainārs Mežulis, Igors Pimenovs, Edgars Putra, Arturs Rubiks, Edwards Smiltens, Zenta Tretjaka and Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U29	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U30	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting! On the agenda: "Annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union". We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U31	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Ministers! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! 2018 is extremely important in Latvia's policy, because this year we celebrate the centenary of Latvia's statehood. The centenary is also an important reference point in our foreign policy power. Foreign policy has played a crucial role in the creation and development of Latvia's state. 97 years ago, the first Latvian Foreign Minister, Zigfried Anna Meierovics, achieved international recognition of Latvia's statehood, and the foreign service has helped to ensure the continuity of Latvia's statehood. Colleagues! This year it is 14 years since Latvia's accession to NATO and the European Union. These years have proved the correctness and timeliness of our foreign policy choices. It is the historical lesson that has contributed to such a resolution. Now we can share our foreign policy experience and knowledge with the Eastern Partnership and the Western Balkan countries. I would like to highlight Belarus, a neighbouring country of Latvia, from the Eastern Partnership countries. 2017 has marked a new dynamic in our bilateral relations. There has been an exchange of historical visits at the level of vice-pickers from both national parliaments. The highest parliamentary visit of Belarus took place in June since the establishment of diplomatic relations between Latvia and Belarus. In October, Latvia's highest parliamentary visit to Belarus took place over the last 19 years. On a working visit to Minsk, I was convinced that a more active and closer dialogue with our neighbouring country has contributed to both Latvia's security interests and interests in the fields of economy, transit and environmental protection. A visit by the Prime Minister of Latvia to Belarus is also planned for February this year. In addition to active cooperation with the Eastern Partnership countries, Latvia's dialogue with the Central Asian countries should be further strengthened. Both the contribution to development cooperation policy, sharing our experiences and closer contacts in trade, transit and education are important. Regional formats that have been effective so far should also be further strengthened, in particular cooperation between the Baltic Assembly, the Baltic States and the Nordic countries in NB8 format, cooperation with the Benelux countries, as well as cooperation between the Central and Eastern European countries and China in the 16+1 format. The Baltic-Nordic dialogue is particularly active at parliamentary level and allows regular exchange of views as well as coordination of action on important regional and global issues. The long-standing visit of the Baltic and Nordic Parliaments to China in the context of this year has opened up new opportunities for more active cooperation with a country whose political and economic importance is increasing in the world. Dear colleagues, The Foreign Minister's report repeatedly mentions the need to balance any relationship or process. I hope that this year Latvia will succeed in implementing a balanced foreign policy in which the interests of Latvia will be as balanced as possible with the interests of our allies and partners (the Head of the sitting knocks on a hammer.) , without sacrificing its values and principles. The report gives a vision of Latvia's place in Europe's core, not its peripherals. Care should be taken to ensure that such a very ambitious goal does not make us unmistakably support the initiatives of the large Member States of the European Union by putting their national interests in order. Politics and compromise art. However, it is important to weigh and balance the potential risks and benefits as well as the long-term consequences of each decision. A good example, when Latvia has maintained its fixed position, is the issue of mechanisms for relocation of asylum seekers, which Latvia supports on a voluntary basis only. It is important to hold such a firm position on other issues important to Latvia as well (for example, defending Latvia's priorities in the common agricultural policy of the European Union after 2020 - namely, maintaining direct payments and achieving equality). Latvia should not avoid defending its legitimate national interests and rights even if it affects one of our long-standing and close ally. This is demonstrated by the decision of the European Commission in favour of Latvia on the issue of the derailment on the Lithuanian side of the route Reņģe-Mažeikis. Following this Decision, Lithuania has undertaken to restore this track. This decision confirms the ability of the European Commission to prevent unfair competition from neighbouring countries for years. We must also look at how we can balance bilateral relations with neighbouring countries, with which we have disagreements on a number of issues, but at the same time we must be able to maintain dialogue and agree on issues where practical solutions are needed. As a success, the final documents of the demarcation of the border between Latvia and Russia were signed in October 2017. It is essential that this border is also the external border of the European Union, the arrangement of which allows Latvia to perform fully the functions of a member of the Schengen Agreement. As the Ministry of Foreign Affairs pointed out, the long-term alignment of the border is an important signal for building bilateral relations between Latvia and Russia. I would like to emphasise that Latvia should develop a pragmatic and practical cooperation-oriented foreign policy with our neighbours, while not derogating from the principles of international law and respecting Latvia's security interests. However, it should be borne in mind that - irrespective of the policies pursued by our neighbours - they are and will be our neighbours. Cooperation with our neighbours is vital for our country's economy and for the well-being of our citizens. Therefore, by sticking to common guidelines in foreign policy, let us not try to be larger Catholics than the Pope of Rome. Colleagues, the Foreign Minister's report highlights the change from traditional economic sectors and traditional markets to new markets and innovative sources of economic development. Knowing the growing importance of future technologies, however, I firmly believe that traditional sectors in Latvia, such as transit and logistics, fisheries and fisheries, agriculture and milk, as well as wood industry, also need to be further developed. At the same time, Latvia's goods and services also need to continue to acquire traditional markets - both the single market of the European Union and the markets of neighbouring countries - the Baltic States, Belarus and Russia. It is the traditional industries and traditional markets that make up the majority of gross domestic product in Latvia. Dear colleagues, Last year, the issue of the protection of the rights of Latvian citizens abroad, both in the context of children's rights and in the context of Brexit, became increasingly topical. The agreement on cooperation between institutions in the protection of the rights of children of Latvia abroad has to be welcomed. The progress made in the European Union's negotiations on the continued status of citizens of its Member States, and therefore of Latvia, in Great Britain after Brexit, is positive. Dear colleagues, While I look forward to Latvia's centenary, I would like to remind Zigfried Anna Meierovica of what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said at the Constitutional Meeting on February 18, 1921. Zigfrīds Anna Meierovics said: “Latvia has completed two stages in its fight for state independence, namely: Latvia's release and Latvia's recognition. Both of these fights are crowned with victory. The first was fought with weapons in the hands and the victims of human beings; the second did not require more than feathers and brain.” Ladies and gentlemen! Color and, in particular, the brain, need to safeguard freedom and democracy, to strengthen security, to promote prosperity and growth. Let us think of how we can design our own foreign policy wisely in order to live up to our commitments but not to hurt our citizens. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Latvian Foreign Service and colleagues in the Saeima for their joint work on Latvia's foreign policy interests. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U32	Thank you. The name to the Member Atm Lejny. Do Members have reservations if both speaking times are combined? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U33	Prime Ministers! Presidium! Excellency! Dear Members and honourable Members, As you will notice, we live in a strange time. Last year, American writer George Sanders said that he received the prestigious Man Booker Prize for English written literature. We know exactly what this strange time is, so I'm not going to get to it. I will just mention that, between 2010 and 2017, populists' success in the elections increased from seven percent to 35 percent. We have seen it only once before - in 1930, shortly before the Second World War. I will return to this at the end of the speech, as this fast-growing phenomenon could have an impact on our future security. But if we look back at our three foreign policy priorities, or the road maps, that we set out in this house last year, we can see that we have achieved a lot, except in one of the third priorities. But now for everything in turn. The first priority was, and still remains, to strengthen the country's external security in close cooperation with our allies and NATO partners, the US and Canada. I wonder if there is much more to be done here. Everything has really happened and is happening! The US has further strengthened its armed forces in Europe and the Baltic States have received $100 million in military assistance for the next three years. Sometimes you have to be surprised at Putin’s actions. One thing when Russian warplanes are trying to threaten our airspace or that of Scandinavia or Canada, but if they are trying to do the same in relation to the State of Alaska? Last year, we were afraid that an agreement between the US and Russia would take place at our expense, because the new President of the United States was the first President of the United States who did not mention Article 5 of the NATO Agreement in Brussels, although it was written in the text. We were not the only ones. Christoph Hoisgen, the Foreign Affairs and Security Adviser of Merkel, said: “We were very afraid at the beginning that the Trump government could make a deal with Russia.” This did not happen and could not happen either. Despite rhetoric, on both sides of the Atlantic has returned to the belief that one side cannot do without the other. Because, as recognised last year by the Federal Intelligence Officer of Germany, Bruno Kalal, Germany is no longer a strategic partner: it has become a potential threat. And not for Germany. Russia is deeply involved in German policy. The Kremlin has established a branched propaganda network in German and has hired prominent Germans as its lobbyists. Among them is former German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder. Second priority. Engage actively in the development of a single and secure Europe. This is also being done. But, of course, a great deal still needs to be done in the future. If we are talking about defence, a good start is the mentioned PESCO, which has also been signed by all three Baltic countries - that is, the permanent structured European defence cooperation. The European Defence Fund is also established. However, the money allocated to it - one and a half million euros - is essentially a small money. Europe can no longer afford to pay four dollars to protect itself for the same thing that the US gets for one dollar. It would not be good if the world began to laugh at Europe, that its noble words do not coincide with works. Let us see how the cooperation protocol between Germany and France on the invention and production of the fifth generation destroyers will move forward. France used to compete with the Eurofighter project, now with Germany and other European countries. But thanks to Brexit, the Eurofighter project will remain a member of the UK. This is not just about warplanes, but about developing a whole set of weapons, including tanks. And that's where many billions of euros will be involved. We need to look at whether we can't join. Challenge to our science! Now, a little bit about the big policy in Europe. About Brexit. It must be said that the voices of the survivors are being adopted, and the British parliaments in both chambers have formed such a silent majority for the UK's stay in the European Union, at least in the single market and in the Customs Union. In this context, the victory of Emanuel Macron in the French elections can be considered a pure miracle. For a moment it really seemed that Brexit would follow the Frexit. But then Jean d’Arka appeared again (this time in the form of a man), and everything again stood on sound foundations. Macron saved not only France, but also the European Union and perhaps even NATO. I would like to offer your attention a short negotiating text that could have happened between the two presidents in the luxurious Castle of Versailles last May, when Putin met with Macron. Of course, I have thought a little bit about it, because the press conference took place after the negotiations. So Macron: “Mr. President, you did not get: your candidate lost!” Putin: “What are you, what are you? I just accepted a fashionable Lepene in my apartment as a friendship gesture for France. She wanted to lift the sanctions." Macron: “Not only that! But what about the future?’ It is not clear what Putin really answered. But after this meeting, Lepēna throws the fur on the other side: the Frexit project vanished and, at the same time, the passionate desire to leave the European family. The third priority is to promote stability and development in the eastern and southern neighbourhood of the European Union. This priority actually coincides with the two already mentioned. As we can see, on the “Eastern Front” without change. The European Union and the US retain their sanctions against Russia because the seizure of the territory of another country in Europe is not acceptable. On the “South Front” without change, but it is clear that conflicts can turn into a new war if relations between Saudi Arabia and Iran worsen. At present, hostilities do not spread outside Yemen, war in Syria continues. Obviously, the Palestinian and Israeli question of the establishment of a Palestinian state in the near future will not be resolved or at all... But the biggest challenge for Europe is another. This is about uncontrolled immigration, illegal immigrants, who have shaken the political stability of the countries of the European Union under the cover of Syrian war refugees. In order to restore control over the borders of the European Union, Member States adopted a joint decision to establish a European Border and Coast Guard Agency within the framework of Frontex. This took place very quickly during the refugee crisis in 2016. It's important! Our contribution to the establishment of this agency, and Frontex as a whole, is very much. Here I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, in particular, the Ministry of the Interior. They have worked closely with the Commission on European Affairs, which our President, Lolita Chigane, has already said. It builds the prestige of Latvia and - who knows! - could ever open up a whole infantry battalion in our safety field. But there is another challenge - a huge challenge! - that's getting more and more topical. Please allow it to be given two minutes! Nigeria has almost 200 million inhabitants, and in 10 years' time it could already be 300 million. However, although it is a very rich state, it is also the worst-managed state. As a result, from 159 countries in terms of the equality index, it is precisely at 159, at the bottom. There is a dramatic change in the climate, and sub-Saharans are becoming more and more dry. It is therefore expected that there will be even greater pressure on Europe in the future from this region. Even now, the majority of refugees from Libya come from Nigeria. The problem is identified in our Foreign Minister's report. The European Union's economic aid must be concentrated on this region. And Latvia also suffers from climate change. The coasts of Kurzeme collapse. We should further strengthen these considerations in the foreign and security documents so that the lobby does not reach, for example, the felling of trees off the coast of Kurzeme. Finally, we are returning to the subject of populism. The above data on the rapid increase in populism are taken from the Financial Times interview with the New Yorker Ray Dalio, the owner of the world's largest hedge fund. The hedge? Hedge fund - a hedge fund. His wealth is $160 billion - it is almost two thirds of Finland's budget, which is $237 billion. Here it is worth remembering that Latvia's standard of living before the war was as high as in Finland. What was to happen if last year's budget was only EUR 9 billion? That would be a little over 11 billion in dollars. Partio predicted the collapse of banks and the explosion of credit markets in 2008 - perfectly perfected. And what does Dalio warn about now? If there is no reduction in inequality, the future development of the market will be determined by less economic indicators than by political conflicts. Political issues will be more important than macroeconomic issues, as more than half of the population does not feel economic recovery. It already seems to me that the reforms that we have achieved in this Saeima so far, including tax reform and modernisation of the SRS, will lead Latvia towards greater prosperity and reduction of inequality. And that's what we're already feeling. I would very much like Latvia to belong to countries where inequalities are reduced and no longer grow. A good indicator is that more and more emigrated Latvians are returning to the country. We have to make more return than leave in the centenary of Latvia. It is strange, however, that we had to wait for accession to the OECD before we realized that theft of a state in the form of insolvency administrators and the judiciary had to be eliminated. By then, we lost 650 million euros in seven years. If we lead the reforms to the end, Latvia will have the money for the very necessary... reserve fund for future needs, both increased foreign investment. We can say with certainty that two million euro of accession money to the OECD against hundreds of millions of euros recovered and received in the future - that will be a pretty good return. It is still time for this Saeima to implement the 2018 budget so that our country's 2019 budget exceeds EUR 10 billion. In fact, we had to have such a budget...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U34	Thank you, thank you. Unfortunately, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U35	I'm done. I'll finish right away.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U36	Unfortunately, the debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U37	... already this year, if he had started working on reforms more quickly. ( The internexion: “To all men the same thing... !” ) It is a reminder not to leave the job halfway. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U38	Mr. Leiens, I am very sorry. The debate is over. And we have already extended it to you through both speaking times. Thank you. The debate continues with Member Rihards Kols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U39	I ask Members to allow both times to be joined up for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U40	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U41	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Sir, Ministers! Excellency! Members! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you, Minister for the report. I welcome the fact that, after every foreign policy debate, during this parliamentary term, each subsequent annual report improves in quality and content. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs addressed both members of the Saeima and non-governmental organisations in the preparation of the report, inviting to submit comments and recommendations. It is evident that the report integrates a number of proposals that have been submitted and that this is a welcome action. This reflects the emergence of a favourable and constructive environment based on multilateral cooperation. It is a good thing that this year's report has also focused seriously on our Diaspora. However, there is a slight feeling of bitterness. It is regrettable that, in the context of foreign policy, our own people, our citizens, are not at the top of the report as one of the most important foreign policy priorities, but at the end of the report. The main task of foreign policy, however, is primarily to defend its citizens, and a policy aimed at a multi-faceted defence of national interests is then followed. The Latvians living abroad - in Europe and the world - who, by the way, form one of the largest diameters in Europe in proportion to their population in the Member States of the European Union are an integral part of Latvia's country's culture and its identity. Until now, political rhetoric has often heard that the Diaspora is described as a resource, and it would be time to recognise it as a true and constant value. Latvians must not be separated from Latvians and Latvians. The work with the Diaspora must be carried out systemically and systematically to ensure long-term accessibility of the Latvian language, culture and identity. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, the need for a transparent and horizontal policy was highlighted, bringing together all the support plans and programmes relating to re-migration, the policy of the Diaspora, including education, culture, economy, identity, traditions, as well as ministerial and local government programmes in a single comprehensive law that would define a clear and unambiguous public policy on the Diaspora. Not to decide annually on the issue, but to lay down the obligation and the fact in law. This commitment made several years ago has already materialized and envisages that the Saeima's agenda will soon be presented with a draft Diaspora law. After all, we are protected by the power of the law by what we really care for and what is truly valuable. It would be worthwhile and consistent with our desire to confirm our enhanced cooperation with the Diaspora by law in the centenary of Latvia, thus promoting further involvement of the Diaspora in the internal and external processes of Latvia, including the economy. Work on draft law will soon be completed, and in February the draft law will begin its way already within the framework of Saeima. I look forward to the involvement and support of representatives of the Diaspora, parliamentary colleagues and ministries, as well as representatives of local governments for the successful progress and adoption of this draft law. Dear colleagues, Now there is one very important chapter in the foreign policy report, where there is a fundamentally different vision. This is the last foreign debate in this parliamentary term, and the future of the European Union is already being discussed and discussed. ‘ I wish you could live in interesting times!” If we might have a positive wish, then, for example, you know it's a curse for the Chinese. All of us, if we want to or do not want to, have a daily reality. Tomorrow, Latvia and Europe 2018, 2019 is ahead of us. This will be a time when decisive decisions will have to be made on the future of both Latvia and the European Union. In order to strengthen our country, it is important for us to strengthen the international environment in which we are located. We don't live in isolation. Therefore, our success and our strength depend directly on how we will be able to defend our interests in the international environment and how we will be able to cooperate with different partners. Foreign policy is our most effective instrument. I therefore believe that Latvia's greatest foreign policy challenge is closely linked to the future of the European Union. With last year's 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, the European Union is on its way. In recent years, we have been in a crisis regime: just as it seems that light has appeared at the end of the tunnel, followed by the next challenges. One existential crisis is followed by another. The British are coming out of the European Union, still fighting against migratory pressures, increasing radicalisation and Euroscepticism in many places. These challenges constantly test the ability of the Member States of the European Union to agree on a common vision for the future and a common approach to solving problems. And, with respect for the Member State of the European Union who has chosen to leave our community, I would like to quote Winston Churchill: "Good crises should not be left unused." The European Union can come out of this crisis as a stronger organisation if we learn to make the right use of this crisis. And this has already been clearly demonstrated by the crises that have hit Europe so far. Success has been on the side of the European Union. And I hope that will continue to do so. This is a time when we have the opportunity to offer ideas and solutions and to defend them skillfully to build a better European Union. The five scenarios put forward by the European Commission have brought the so-called "multi-speed European concept" to the forefront of the discussions. It has raised the issue of the core of Europe, which we have heard many times today. What kind of core? What is that? Is Latvia there? Which countries are there? Well, if many already believe that Europe's core is the euro area, then it is talking about our membership of the euro area. This heart of the European Union is like a monster on Lake Lohnes - it appears at times, but no one has seen it, and no one really believes it. The European model of a number of speeds, by establishing this mythical nuclear and peripheral system, to which the founding Member States of the European Union are mainly called, will create an even greater gap between Member States and will further distance European citizens from the European project. When we voted in 2003 in favour of joining the European Union, we voted in favour of one European project - the fundamental principles of equality and equality. Europe does not meet the interests of both Latvia and the European Union at several speeds. And this idea must stop at its very root. By formally establishing nuclear and peripheral sites, we will marginalise a large part of the Member States and their citizens, risk weakening the European Union's position in a globalised world and, in fact, end up in conflict with the fundamental principles of the European Union. No country within the European Union has more rights or privileges than it was between the founding Member States of the European Union or for any other reason. By creating new borders and political structures within Europe, such as an investment programme for euro area countries only, a common euro area budget or a heading of the Minister of Finance, Europe is in fact divided. It's dangerous. Because the European Union, as a political entity, is either united and states are equal, equal, equal, or it simply does not exist. Any move towards a Europe of speed or formal political union within the European Union - it only deepens the bog from which we try to purge. Because now, as it turns out, we live in all sorts of unions - a banking union, an energy union. It is inconceivable why all the good recent initiatives that really strengthen the European Union are deliberately named not what they are - systems, concrete instruments, political formations, structures - but the unions! Returning to the issue of a number of speeds of formalisation, such a fundamental change would require serious changes to the existing European Union treaties, and it is only possible for all the Member States of the European Union to decide on this jointly and not by any abstract core whose composition and privileges are not known by anyone. I fear that this choice of route could irreversibly mean the beginning of the end of European unity. But don't do anything - it's not the solution either. There may be an alternative. We need to be aware that Europe has evolved at different stages and in different formats. The development of the countries of the European Union has not been the same for any moment, from the accession and integration processes to the development of mutual cooperation. But this is not Europe at several speeds! It could rather be referred to as a changing geometry of cooperation, which involves not a different course of integration or a division between Member States in mystical kernels and peripherals, but cooperation in different policy areas. The current governance form and model of integration of the European Union have always provided for cooperation between the different national blocks in certain policy areas in different geographical locations. It is a modus operandi and a reality of the European Union, because the national interests of the Member States of the European Union cannot be homogeneous. These different forms of cooperation have been important support for the promotion of specific issues, often specific to one region, and for the representation of interests, such as the European Defence Fund and the promotion of cooperation policy, resistance to the Nord Stream 2 project, support to the Eastern Partnership, sanctions against Russia and others is relevant. With the awareness that the interests and priorities of the Member States are different, we can agree on further work, on the European Union's agenda. It is understandable that in a Union of 27 countries, everyone will not take the same pace of development and will not consider the same issues as their main national interests. The solution is not a number of speeds by technically and linearly dividing the countries of the European Union. We don't need a revolution, we need a renaissance. Not centralisation, but decentralisation, which at the same time will bring us all together again. Instead of formally institutionalising transnational relations, we can build national communities, specialised groups of European policy-makers. Instead of centralised bureaucracy, policy-making can be decentralised between a number of groups of policy-making Member States to monitor and develop relevant policies. Member States would be free to choose which communities to join in accordance with their national interests, while maintaining the common decisions reached so far, such as the common defence and foreign policy of the European Union. These groups could continue to act as political drivers, bringing about more rapid and effective implementation of new initiatives and setting new objectives such as defence, cybersecurity, economic stability or other areas. Introducing such a principle instead of passive conciliation for each Member State of the European Union would ensure an active and positive role in shaping the European Union's agenda. The existing treaties of the European Union already have reservations about the voluntary establishment of national blocs, whether in a specific sectoral policy direction or not. And if we want to be so much at the core, then in case of such a scenario all of us will be at the core. But who can do all of this? Neither the existing European Commission nor the existing European Parliament. In order to address Europe's most serious problems and to be able to convince millions of Europeans of the way forward, it is critically important to be aware of their weaknesses, mistakes and failures. Instead, the European Commission continues its destructive tendency to blame for the lack of money or political will in all its failures, as if the criticism of the whole and any European Union is a populist delirium. The President of the European Commission has refused to listen to the people of Europe, including those who believe that the European Union has deceived them. Consequently, the President of the European Commission and all of its existing composition have lost its symbolic mandate to the public. The biggest challenge of this credit of confidence is not the generation of new governance models - let us do it for the future! - The main challenge of this term is to do something. The future of Europe will be the next, elected in 2019, the European Parliament and the European Commission. Those who will have the support of European citizens will probably also be those whose political platform will not be based on dreams of how to make Europe great again, but on how we can live well on it, and who will be able to remind us that the meaning of the European Union's existence is no less than providing an institutional basis for European values. Europe is made up of people, not administrative areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U42	Thank you. The name of the Member Immant Debtor. Are Members opposed if the speaker brings together the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U43	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Resurrection! High Minister for Foreign Affairs! The annual report by the Foreign Minister contains some encouraging features, but I would like to describe the report as superficial, formal, without added value. In fact, it is amazing how so little can be said with so many words! And the biggest problem is that once again, the biggest challenges and threats of the future for Europe, Latvia - just as it was with previous reports to the Saeima. In 2014, society was not warned that Russia can denounce the crisis in Ukraine. The result was that neither the Saeima Members nor the public were prepared for the coming crisis. On the other hand, the 2015 report did not mention the upcoming migrant crisis at all, although previously it was known about huge refugee camps... concentration of camps in the immediate vicinity of Europe. The long-term activity of human smuggling in the Mediterranean. There was no word in the Foreign Affairs Report about this. Find out these messages and make sure that you are on your own. The family and society as a whole were once again faced with a crisis unprepared. We saw the same inadequacies in the rather chaotic activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when these and other crises were overdue and hasty. Did we hear some serious message about the challenges of the future this year in the report? I don't think so! In fact, almost no mention has been made of Latvia this year, perhaps the biggest existential threat. First of all, such threats in Europe are in the foreseeable future. The first is economic threat. The trend towards global backwardness and loss of competitiveness has long been taking place in Europe. A very simple example. We live in an age of IT technology and the Internet. Look at your smartphones and computers: almost 100 percent have not been produced in Europe! Technology, IT solutions are owned and controlled by megacorporates located outside the European Union. The same applies to most IT technologies and internet giants. Today's most globally important and influential companies are out of European control. An even more convincing and equally symbolic example is the development of quantum computers. In this respect too, powers such as the US and China are far ahead of us. These are the technologies of the future, which are likely to bring about a fundamental change in science, world science, and economic development. Europe has long fallen behind in this race. The reasons are obvious, as can be seen from very simple statistics. How many of the world's best, most powerful universities, or global intellectual power plants, are in Europe? Of the top 10 universities in the world, only two are in Europe. In fact, the situation is even worse, because out of 10 Europeans... Only two are in continental Europe, and eight in Britain are going to leave the European Union shortly. There is a trend! It is no wonder, therefore, that science and thus economic competitiveness are clearly marked by the threat of backwardness. The report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not highlight this problem in particular, so almost nothing has been said about Latvia's vision, possible contribution to changing this very real threat to the future system. Perhaps we do not see it, we do not worry about it, and we do not intend to engage actively, but maybe, however, it is worth Latvia to at least mark this global European challenge in its foreign policy discourse? The second is security, linked to the demographic crisis. In general, the report highlights Latvia's position, but does not, in particular, highlight the most significant threat of the near future. If Spain has now sent 300 troops under NATO assistance, then perhaps we may have to send 3000 or more soldiers to Spain in the future. It is only open eyes to look at what is happening in the neighbouring regions of Europe. Africa is on the other side of the Mediterranean, with 1.2 billion people now living there. Many of them are already suffering from lack of drinking water and food. Ecological trends do not promise anything good: heat will increase and the resources needed for life will be further reduced. A number of African countries have a serious democratic deficit and are on the border of anarchy and chaos. While we are expanding various support programmes for families with children to promote more diverse families and our nation would grow numerically in the future, the number of people on the other side of the world is growing at mega speeds. It is forecast that around 2050, after 30 years, the African population will double to 2.5 billion. Where will these people stay? Badness, lack of water, grievous and desperate conflicts, they will certainly seek salvation. They could have the closest purpose of asylum in Europe. I am not talking about one or two million, which broke literally into Europe very recently. This is about hundreds of millions of potential refugees. Is the current European security architecture ready for these threats? Does Europe have any real plan to help them overcome the challenges ahead? What is Latvia's vision and our potential contribution? The report contains only a few paragraphs - general and unspecific. Will Latvia and Europe once again prove to be a contradiction between each other and an endless debate weakened, without effective and safe solutions? Will we, however, start working on this right now? Now Latvia's biggest threat is already this year. The third threat - Russia's influence on the electoral process and its results in Latvia. The world is actively discussing how and how the Brexit vote in Great Britain and the presidential elections in the US were affected from outside. Latvia has Saeima elections this year. We are much more vulnerable than these big, experienced democracies. The Russian propaganda machine still feels quite free here. Similarly, we have not heard that the safety authorities would be particularly effective in catching possible spies. While in Estonia at least four high-level traitors have been captured in recent years, in Latvia only one failed “overriver” has been detained. There is no doubt that Russia's foreign policy manipulators, various influence agents and, above all, the countless TV propaganda channels will do their utmost to have a massive impact on the results of the elections. These channels are not in fact subject to any laws or regulations of Latvia, and it is clear that they will campaign without any restrictions about Russian friends. The pro-Creme forces will have resources which will be extremely difficult for normal political parties. For Russia to add a couple of millions of euros to support campaigns of its friends is a cash. In essence, at the price of one or two tanks they can take over the political influence of the Latvian Parliament and government. It is also important for Putin, now internally, to have a government that is favourable to him in one European Union and NATO Member State. There is no doubt that this time they will make a special effort. If there are old friends and colleagues of Putin in Latvia, then it will be a victorious victory of Russian diplomacy and, in fact, an irreversible loss to Latvia. These men, as they know, once came to power, do not give it up. Manipulate and subject public opinion - that is the art that they have fully developed. The report by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not give a clear warning to Russia - to refrain from interference in the electoral process. There are only general phrases and well-known clichés. There is no clear message that any external manipulation will be stopped and ended decisively and in principle. This must be done very clearly this time. Unfortunately, we did not hear that. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not fully taken advantage of the opportunity to warn the Saeima and the public about this extremely serious threat to democracy and the future of the country. In conclusion, about our Catholic brothers and our reputation for them. There is one point in which I would ask you, Minister, for absolute clarity. For several weeks now, the biggest media in Spain and Catalonia have discussed the news that Latvia's silence on the Catalonia issue has cost Spain EUR 63 million. It is about the fact that Spanish soldiers have been sent to Latvia in exchange for their promise to remain silent on the issue of the independence of Catalonia. The source of this information is the former Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs and Member of the Prime Minister's Party, José Margaljo, who recognised it almost publicly. Currently, the name of Latvia is very widespread and shameful in Catalonia and Spain media, as a country that can be bought up. It looks like a Spanish. But the Catholics are all the worse. For them now, Latvia is shown as a principle of self-determination by a country which trades secretly with their independence. If that is true, then it is a shame that will be difficult to wash for decades. I very much ask you to confirm with a clear “no” to the Saeima and to the general public that such a transaction has not taken place in the form of an oral agreement either in writing or in the form of an oral agreement. This is also essential for NATO's reputation. We must clearly know that assistance between NATO Member States is based on the principle of mutual solidarity, not on dubious, collusive transactions linked to the efforts of the independence of other peoples. Please confirm this in the name of NATO's reputation! We should not fall into a shadow of suspicion on such important matters. Because if we trade today with the fate of the Catholic people, what will we be prepared to sell tomorrow? And who's going to do the same thing to sell us? On behalf of Latvia, confirm that the former Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs has publicly said the truth on such a matter of principle! The other thing is just as important. As you can see, I've put a yellow tape. It is a sign of solidarity for Catholic political prisoners in Spanish prisons, where two democratically elected politicians and two prominent heads of civil organisations are currently being held in jail. This is disproportionate and disrespectful behaviour by a democratic society. We are deceiving ourselves by saying that it is a Spanish internal matter. This situation shames the entire European Union and therefore Latvia as a Member State. In fact, the European Union has come down to Putin's Russian level where otherwise thought-out political opponents can be thrown into prison. In this way, we are issuing a free ticket to Putin to continue to do exactly the same and to lose Europe's moral authority in democracy and human rights. Political cynicism is the way to nowhere. I ask the Foreign Minister to call on Spanish colleagues to resolve this shameful situation without delay. Avoiding silence and failing to act will be a support for all populists who claim that democracy has turned into a fiction and sinking into a cowardly double-moral bog in Europe. I would remind you that the first President of Latvia, Jānis Čakste, has been sentenced and imprisoned for calling for democratic principles to follow. Yes, in the sense of the Russian imperialists, Chakste was a judge. Do we really have to watch the Catholics humiliating themselves in today's Europe just the same way? Mr Rinkēvičs, please confirm yourself as a true and courageous defender of democracy and human rights. Please confirm that the words you have given here today (I quote) “Freedom, democracy and the rule of law – these are fundamental values” are really not just an empty sound, but a real basis for our position! And the rule of law is also, first of all, the principle of the right of self-determination of the nation. These people represent several million citizens of the European Union. Do not let them feel humiliated or rejected! Spain must immediately release these at least four political prisoners. Here I would like to recall the prophetic words of the great European thinker and former President of Estonia, Lennart Mary, who said: “The call for any nation to waive its right of self-determination is a prey to its self-confidence.” Today, in the European Union, the Catholics have been severely scattered. Latvia must tell Spain clearly and lightly - it is time to stop, to turn back! Reiterating the position expressed by the representative of the National Union, Robert Zile, Member of the European Parliament, I quote: "The knees of Catalonia will not benefit the European Union. It is a question of reason - not to humiliate any nation in the European Union." Minister, we must be those who provide support and help to get up! And finally. I ask the Foreign Minister to accept my criticism with understanding. Pastor and thinker Juris Rubenis recently reminded us: “We often see people as enemies who do nothing wrong for us but bring us a challenging message.” I am not your enemy, Minister, but I call on you to speak more clearly and directly about the major challenges for the future of Latvia and Europe. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U44	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U45	Dear President, Honourable Members! Ministers! Excellency! It is a pleasure that, at last, we have also started to talk about moral values in Europe. The Minister mentioned fathers' founding fathers and European values. The question is, are we not too far removed from these values? The author of the Declaration of 9 May 1950, the French Foreign Minister, Robert Schuman, and Conrad Adenauer treated these values in a different way than the honourable minister mentioned. Everyone can get acquainted with Schuman's quotes in this book. What kind of Europe did these fathers founders imagine, and what did they write in their first documents, such as the United European Charter? ‘ Political unity does not mean absorption of the people. Political integration does not mean abandoning national sovereignty." “The European value is democracy and secularity,” our Foreign Minister says. Minister!... Oh, Minister busy... Scularism is a set of principles and beliefs that are free of religion, God, or any greater Absolute. What does Schuman say, European father? The book is also called “Rober Schuman. European father’. ‘ Either democracy will be Christian or it will not exist. Anti-Christian democracy is a cartoon which is settled either in tyranny or anarchy.’ Today, it is demonstrated by Eurovision, where women with beard appear. What should be the community of peoples in the European Union? A very precise definition once again: "The community of peoples like the European Union is being formed between countries rooted in the same civilization. It is on this basis that countries are free to unite." "Christian civilisation has developed in all European countries. It is a European soul that needs to be revived." And to conclude on this subject. ‘ Only the same civilisation can be the matrix of the nation community. A community idea that mixes peoples from different civilizations cannot have a different purpose than an economic one.’ That is, profit. ‘ Otherwise, there is a risk that antagonistic fundamentalist forces will be released... “ All things have been fulfilled accurately! We see representatives of various civilizations, millions of refugees, terrorists, police officers with machines and everything else. So these values put in by Schuman and the way in which they and Adenauer hoped that Europe would develop... I think we're not going in that very direction. Another issue that the Minister has not touched on, but that has already been mentioned here by the previous speaker, Member of the Debtor, is the increasing hypocrisy that prevails in the European Union. We have heard a number of statements from the European Commission that Poland has no rule of law. So in Poland, obviously, Members of Parliament are being put in prison for expressing their political views. It turns out, not in Spain, but in Poland, they are being imprisoned! Members, yes! The European Commission's statement: "Madrid was not condemned by unprecedented violence against voters by civilian Guard fighters." Well, that's the little thing: the women got in, the hair dragged... Above all, let us focus on Poland! On 9 October last year, the Foreign Minister said at an interview: “If the Government of Catalonia declares its independence, Latvia will not recognise such independence.” Well, Latvia, thank God, is not such a presidential state where the Foreign Minister does not make decisions! I think that this is, above all, a matter of discussion and of Parliament. But this is not about independence, it is about human rights. We can ask the Minister a question, maybe he will answer. How many times, Mr Rinkēvičs, the Catalan people must elect a majority of those supporting independence to listen to Madrid and enter into dialogue? We are already talking only about the need for dialogue. Do we have to be proud of this kind of foreign policy? To be honest... Well, I did... Yeah, I looked at various foreign authors and magazines... Well, for example, such screaming headlines... Do they honor Latvia? It says that Spain bought Latvia's silence on the issue of Catalonia's independence about 30 Judas... No, I'm sorry, for EUR 63 million. Former Spanish Foreign Minister José Manuel Garcia-Margaljo said that he met with representatives of the Latvian Government four times, offering various assistance and demanding silence on the issue of Catalonia. I think it would be better to confiscate these 63 million to an oligarch - that is not so much. Next. Other foreign policy issues. In this report, I did not hear anything about Turkey attacking allies of the other NATO country - the Kurds. How do we view this? I have not heard anything about the future of Syria in Latvia's foreign policy. We remember, however, that in the previous report there was a huge amount of long talk about how Syria... how the Syrian policy has evolved and how we will help address the Syrian issue. I didn't hear anything about East Jerusalem. Slovenia has announced that it will recognise East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine. What is Latvia's opinion on this issue? But we can read that Kosovo will soon be a candidate country in the European Union. ( Internouncing call.) So, Kosovo, which destroys the Christian churches, several hundred and sprays the Orthodox monasteries, is obviously very close to us in terms of civilisation and will enter the European Union very quickly?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Section on a competitive Latvian economy. In the 1990s, Latvia concluded a large number of bilateral investment protection agreements. We lacked experience and lawyers to conclude these agreements, and today we enjoy the fruit of these agreements. Every year Latvia loses tens of millions of international court cases (I am talking about the economy here), because these investment agreements allow Latvia's jumper to become a honorable investor when changing his nationality, say, when he moves to Germany or the United Kingdom. And what is lost in Latvia suddenly turns into the subject of this bilateral investment protection agreement, to which Latvia can do nothing, and we are losing another case. Well, it's not enough with Flice... Yes, one such example is that he has now become a honorable German investor from Latvia. We also have several investors in the UK and in other countries. These contracts were concluded for a period of 10 years. I think there is enough time for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs... Well, maybe this one won't work anymore, but the next one... submit corrections, review together with the Ministry of Finance, with our entrepreneurs, with the Ministry of Justice. Corrections should be made to most of these contracts. This is about competitiveness. For new markets. I found nothing about Iran, which has 80 million inhabitants. I know a large delegation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs led by Secretary of State Pildegovič. The visit was very successful. More than 40 organisations expressed their willingness to cooperate. Iran’s railways are transporting goods from India and from Iran and are ready to cooperate with “Latvian Railways”. This was not mentioned here. Well, maybe for some other reason or for forgetfulness. The benefits of the single market. Has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs clarified why our road hauliers are not on the French market, as our Members of the European Parliament have mentioned? Why are Latvian manufacturers of folding houses so far unable to sell these buildings in France? What is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs doing after the US Congress has voted to abolish Internet neutrality? That allows Facebook to... Well, in these social networks... For example, advertising to slow down small producers and speed up advertising for large producers. It's indifferent to us. Maybe there's some kind of conversation going on? I would like to hear from the Foreign Minister. These are the main things I would like to hear. Let me finish by saying to the very honourable Member, Mrs Chiganas, that it is only when the omite leaves that we appreciate and love him. I hope that what Mrs Chigan is saying is not a Unity but a foreign policy, and I hope that the new Saeima will really be able to develop policies that will answer these questions that we are asking here and, of course, thank the Foreign Minister for his work. But obviously there will be another foreign minister. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U46	Thank you. Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs applied for the second time in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U47	The time has come to gather and answer a number of questions. Let me start with a brief reply to Mr Kirstein. Mr. Kirstein, the omite is still alive. As regards the question of the European Union, the European Union's core, the European Union's speed, which has been affected by several Members both from the position and from the opposition. In reply to Mr Potapkin, I would like to say very briefly. In my reports, in discussions and in the positions of the government, it has always been said that Latvia sees the European Union not as the United States of Europe or the Federation, but as a strong union of national states. We have repeatedly said that we do not support the creation of a European Union army. Last year, just a year ago, we have already discussed this. The path chosen in the area of defence cooperation is, in my opinion, very correct, precise and we support it. Especially because the European Union and NATO on defence issues, hybrid threats are currently working more actively than ever. I listened with great interest to Mr Kola's speech and thought that it would be very, very crazy to say a lot about the core, about the speed and everything else. But at the very end of Mr Kola, he said exactly what I said, namely, that there will be decentralisation, that there will be several speeds and that there will be different integrations. Let's see what's happening now. The Schengen area is not all 28 countries (at present, 28 will be 27 Member States). Some countries have made it clear that they do not want to be in the Schengen area. There are 19 countries in the euro area. Several countries have pointed out constitutionally that they will not even be going to be in the euro area. Defence cooperation. That's exactly the same thing. There are no 27 or 28 countries. Because, for example, Denmark has constitutional restrictions on defence matters for cooperation with the European Union. So the core, as we see it... the most important issue at the moment is whether the governance model of the euro area will be more political or not. If we do not participate in these negotiations, our views will not be taken into account, but this model will be. So, from this point of view, at this moment's discussion of the need for some decentralisation and for some groups, it is precisely the same thing that we were talking about, in other words. I understand that the will is different. Let it be! But basically we see things in the same direction. As regards investment issues. I fully agree with Mr Dombrava on the need to work more actively with North America in the area of investment, but then I call on the Saeima and the relevant ministries, which have been fighting for this matter for several years now, to finally sort out a range of issues affecting the depths of the land. Because, for example, investors from Canada are not prepared to come here and work for the simple reason that we cannot move these issues for several years. We have so many insurmountable problems that I have not understood as a foreign minister so far. China and what Mr Potapkin said. I do not see any particular contradictions between the strategic partnership with the US and cooperation with China, although I understand your concerns that these choices may be more and more complex in geopolitical and geostrategic terms. However, I do not see such problems in the geoeconomics. Mr Viļuma spoke here about the Baltic Sea Council and one of our priorities - the cultural heritage. However, I call for a distinction to be made. The Council of the Baltic Sea States is not the Council of the Baltic States. It is a broader spectrum. Regarding Baltic cooperation. You know, I'd say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the only ministry that now... The Ministry has been able to create the Latvian and Estonian translators' prize, which has now become a broader award and which has been in existence for almost 10 years. This year, together with our Lithuanian colleague, we have signed the articles of association on the creation of the White Prize. It is a practical, very important contribution to our cultural cooperation. I hope that the centenary and all the programs we have... By the way, the Baltic States are very much... together goes beyond the borders of our region. London Book Market Fair... Orse in the museum, France, will be an exhibition of artists from the Baltic States. In many places we cooperate quite well. So that's also a good answer to what you said. The Baltic States cooperate in solving cultural issues. But I think it's also a question... As usual, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for all areas, from transport and fisheries to culture... also our colleagues in other government bodies... Regarding your mention of the Baltic Embassies. We have a practice where we are in the same room. However, I have already often discussed here the fact that the formation of joint embassies of the Baltic States is not possible, because we also have various economic interests. It is possible for our embassies to be located in one room, perhaps cost reduction, and this is happening. For example, in Egypt, we are with Estonia, and some time ago we had an embassy in Kazakhstan with Lithuania. So we are prepared to continue talking about this too. Catalonia question. Mr debtor, four years ago in this debate, you have already spoken on this subject and you called for the immediate recognition of it by Latvia after Catalonia declared its independence. And then I answered you and repeat the official position of the Latvian Government. These issues are to be dealt with in Spain by internal political and constitutional means, and we will not in any way advise the parties here. We had this debate four years ago, even before the NATO summits on NATO's presence in the Baltic region were decided on before the illegal annexation of Crimea took place. I call on you, in principle, not to rely on the very exacerbated informational war that is currently taking place in Spain, where both sides use half-truths, some sort of expression. I can assure you that Latvia's position on the Catalonia issue will not change. We regard this as an internal issue for Spain. It is also a matter that we have to deal with in the treaties of the European Union, where it is clearly stated that the Member States of the European Union will support and in no way impede the territorial integrity of the other Member States of the European Union. The Spanish contingent, on the other hand, is not here as a result of any business. The Spanish contingent is here based on Article 5 of the NATO Agreement. And there has been no agreement on 63 million and some kind of silence in Catalonia, for example. These are absolutely different, I must say, categories. And I call on you to read very precisely what the former Spanish foreign ministers and colleagues say and not to allow yourself to be the information war in which... We are trying very quickly to get involved in a very emotionally charged issue. Of course, it is interesting that in some of your statements I hear thoughts that I have read from other authors. But... Well, let it stay. Regarding what Mr Kirštein said. In my opinion, we can, of course, talk quite a bit about the range of issues that affect our cooperation with Iran, the building block of a whole series of economic policies. I can only assure you that we are continuing to work here. We have discussed all this quite a lot in the previous debate. And, to be honest, honourable Members, you yourself are a little out of the way. On the one hand, you want details, but on the other, you want a vision. On the one hand, you say that we discussed this three years ago, so we do not need to discuss it now. I try in every way to make this debate sufficiently visionary from a political point of view, as well as detailed. And, of course, each of your recommendations is interesting to me. Finally, the black list mentioned here by Mr Krauze, in which we should include a whole line of people who have done something to us. However, I want a certain degree of specificity. What are we talking about? In general, using a blacklist to promote economic interests would be very innovative even against the general background of the European Union or region. If you have any specific proposals and ideas, I would very much like to hear the names they have done to our partners and so on. As far as Egypt is concerned, for example, I think that our task there was not to place the blacklist on it, but to achieve the release of Latvian citizens, which was also successfully done by diplomatic means, not by the blacklist. Therefore, I think, let us be realistic, let us look at things in a balanced way. And given that I will have the opportunity to speak after a few more Members in the next part of the sitting, I am now thanking you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U48	Thank you. The name is Arvil Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U49	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, Thank you for the opportunity to speak in the parliamentary debate. I must say that, as head of the economic development service, I absolutely appreciate very much our foreign policy, our foreign policy service, its leader and its functioning. I have to say that I regard Latvia's foreign policy as a successful and professional. It is fully in line with Latvia's economic interests and responds to the major challenges facing all people related to the economy. We receive clear answers on how the effects of geopolitical tensions are mitigated. Latvia is very successful in maintaining its agenda in the European Community, its economic interests, as well as - and this is very important - foreign policy service is successfully addressing issues that are less discussed in Latvia, and it is the architecture of the future of Europe. We are also very successful vis-à-vis the global power, let us say, the dynamics of balance change, we see that this position is in the interests of the Latvian economy. Latvia is also integrated into all international institutions where we have interests. In general, we see that part of this work is reflected in the growth of the Latvian economy. Last year's and this year's economic growth in Latvia has been measured by international investment as balanced and successful, exceeding the averages of the European Union's economic area. I would like to say that, to a large extent, this has also been due to the performance of the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Economics and its main priorities at this time. I want to name four priorities here. These are export and investment incentives, competitiveness and the development of human capital. If we are talking about investment, then the drop in investment in Latvia in the last two years has been halted. In Latvia, investors have become safer, and one of the main reasons is the decisions of the Warsaw Summit and the security guarantees provided by NATO in the region. Here I would like to say with full responsibility that Latvia's investments in security have paid back to the last cent. I also call on the government from this troupe to think that we can increase these investments by at least 2.1 or 2.2 per cent. Something like an answer... I want to see at least a five-fold increase in foreign investment this year, which will exceed EUR 710 million in nine months. Why is this important? Let me explain. It should be noted that currently there are 4.5 thousand companies in Latvia with more than 145 thousand euro turnover and at least 50 per cent of foreign capital. These companies account for one fifth of all Latvian companies and contribute almost half of Latvia's total tax revenue to the state budget. If we are talking about exports, then it has reached 11.4 billion last year, and it is clear that this is the most important indicator of Latvia's economic growth. At present it is 58 per cent of GDP. And, I must say, the four percent growth that took place last year can be seen as good, but not sufficient. It is absolutely clear that in the future Latvia must focus on export growth - much more and much faster! - to a much higher added value. And I have to say that exports to small, open economies like Latvia are fundamentally important, exports must become a much larger part of GDP. This component must reach at least 70 per cent of this figure. If we are talking about productivity, it should be said that at the moment it is one of the most problematic issues, with the Latvian economy becoming part of the global or global economy and integrating into global value chains. It has to be said that the average of 42 percent of the European Union's average productivity is a fundamental problem for Latvian companies. It must be said that companies at the top of this competitiveness see integration in the global market as an excellent advantage. However, for those companies that are not productive and are unable to compete on the global market, this situation is unfortunately dramatic, often we hear many calls as an aid, and we need to think about how to help these companies develop and move forward. Of course, a huge challenge for Latvia is the issue of human capital. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister has come with an initiative to establish a Diaspora law, as there are still quite a number of countrymen leaving Latvia. And it is clear that the global strengthening of Latvia's concept is already with a legislative initiative! - is extremely important. It is quite clear that we need to think about how we maintain our relationship with these people and try to attract them to the Latvian economy. Of course, we have a huge issue with regard to human capital: lack of competence, and here we need to think about how we develop these competences in Latvia through cooperation between different international educational institutions. If we talk about Latvia's challenges in the global space, then I invite you to be much more focused in the future and work on the features that we have. And these, as we see, are very good results. If we are talking about Latvia's exports, then I would like to say that Latvia's membership of the European Union... that the European Union is Latvia's most important trading and investment partner. And this has already been said here. Latvian trade turnover with the 28 countries of the European Union in the first three quarters of 2017 amounts to 71 percent or 17.2 billion. On the other hand, the corresponding investments account for three quarters of all incoming investments. It has to be said that this year 25 years have passed since the principles of the single market, free movement of goods, services and capital began to be successfully implemented in the European Union, as well as the opportunity to work and study in any Member State of the European Union. It has to be said that the free movement of labour has caused significant loss of living power for the country. In my opinion, a successful policy of the Diaspora will make a significant contribution to the development of the Latvian economy and their return. Although Latvia's presence in the European Union has become an obvious thing for us and, as Members have mentioned, we perceive it as an omite in the kitchen, the future benefits of the single market will not be without our active participation in the development of the common rules of the game. Because now - in the context of internal political processes in France and Germany - there is a much faster decision-making on issues relating to deepening the single market. In view of the discussion on the future of the European Union, Latvia should actively participate in the development of the European Union's common architecture and in the resolution of many issues related to economic interests. As one example... As one of the challenges, I would like to mention the various decisions on balanced industrial development and the great ambitions of the European Parliament with regard to climate and environmental requirements. It has to be said that it often places a disproportionate burden on industrial development. And for Latvia's foreign policy, foreign policy and economic policy makers this is a great challenge - to find good solutions. If we are talking about excellent examples of cooperation, it is certainly a European energy policy, it is a liberalisation of the gas market, the creation of a regional gas market, synchronisation and development of infrastructure. For our interests in the international environment. I would definitely like to mention that the Ministry of Economics of Latvia has chosen the three most important markets for export cooperation, namely the USA, China and the United Arab Emirates, which are the gateways to the Gulf countries. We are currently working on issues of cooperation with India, Japan and South Korea. As far as the United States is concerned, we see a huge potential and an increase in economic activity of 65 percent compared to the year 2016. It has to be said that the United States has become not only a country from which we expect trade and investment, but also a country where Latvian entrepreneurs invest. Here I will mention the Valmiera glass fibre factory in Atlanta, as well as the Printful company, which has several companies in America and is developing dynamically. At the end of 2017, the Chicago conference showed that Latvia has huge opportunities for cooperation with the United States. Cooperation with Canada has also been activated through the CETA Agreement. The Ministry of Economics also pays great attention to cooperation with China and the United Arab Emirates (we plan to participate in Expo 2020 in Dubai), as well as to the developing countries that I have mentioned, where the President's visit is about to take place. Finally, I would like to call on Members to pay attention to Latvia's new modern economy. What do I want to mention here? They are companies that have successfully integrated...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U50	Minister, your debate is over. Is there a need for extra time?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U51	I'm one minute more...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U52	Are there any objections to Members if the debate is continued for one and two minutes, bringing together the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U53	Thank you. I would like to say a few words about the new economy. We are still seeing a phenomenon that there are companies that successfully integrate into international value chains, make good use of the findings of university scientists and work successfully in many international markets. I would like to mention Liepaja company UPB as an example, which successfully offers innovative solutions for construction in Scandinavia. I would also like to mention here the natural cosmetics producer Madara cosmetics, which is quoted on the NASDAQ stock exchange, which has 30 percent growth per year and over 8.5 million turnover. In Finland it is a natural cosmetics number one, and currently Madara cosmetics is successfully trying to create their position on the German market. I also want to talk about start-ups, which are also developing successfully. We see more than 320 new companies that have been able to attract more than EUR 200 million in investment in the previous period. I see that the successful cooperation between the foreign service and the economic development service is at the heart of the development of the Latvian economy on the global stage. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared. Name to Member Edward Smilten for his statement.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U55	Colleagues, little attention! We have a rather large group of Members for cooperation with the German Parliament. A small technical problem has arisen: there is no group leader, because Mrs Āboltiņa has left the Saeima. I therefore call on the members of the group to come together now in the Red Hall to re-elect the group's leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U56	Thank you. Name to a member of the Secretary of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U57	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dombrava, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ainārs Mežulis, Andris Morozovs, Edgars Putra, Romualds Ražuks... It was right here, applied... Edward Smilten... I just said... and Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U58	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U59	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda: "Annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and planned in the country's foreign policy and the European Union". We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U60	Dear Excellency! Colleagues! Mr. High Minister. The best that you could show us today by solemnly launching your report would be that the protection of the interests of Latvia and its citizens in all areas is a priority for your Ministry. Your work must be identified with pride in your country. Unfortunately, we are far from seeing your policies strengthen people's confidence in the national conscious leadership of the ministry. I will talk about people today because, unfortunately, they are very little mentioned in your report. In your report, you stress, for example, that Latvia's priority in international human rights organisations is respect for the rights of human rights, minorities and other minorities. But at the same time, your nominated representative in UN bodies is voting against the preservation of life for unborn children, ignoring the fact that the right to be born is one of the foundations of human rights! Similarly, in the vote against the resolution, which gives parents the right to decide on matters related to sexual education for children, your appointed representative creates a misconception about the country of Latvia. On 3 July 2015, in connection with the vote by your spokesperson against the UN Resolution on Family Protection, you explained that it was important for you to be with Europe in the vote because taking the same position with Russia would mean returning you back 25 years ago. ( Internouncing call.) Then it is not understandable to what values you are moving Latvia if representatives of other countries of the European Union have been shocked by our lawyers last year about the ardent speech of the representative of Latvia against unborn children. On matters of value, it always seems important for you to emphasise support for the position of strategic partners, but this time, with the support of the US, our biggest strategic partner, we were in the opposite position on this issue, and only with the support of the US, the two resolutions were, however, supported. I would like to point out that your appointed representatives, against whom you are not opposed, create a distorted projection of Latvia's values in the international community. It is sad that you always find a justification for a misstatement of values and, proud of the interpreted values of Europe, you, Mr Rinkēvičs, have forgotten the system of values that the European Union has already mentioned today, Robert Schuman, the father of the European Union. Still about people. As Mr Kola has already said, it is really symbolic that the issues about the Diaspora in your report are in the final place. You have given enough money and attention to the concerns about hybrid threats, but you have forgotten that the biggest problem for Latvia's security is the departure of the disappointed Latvian population from the country. And even more so when our citizens, who long for home with their heart and soul, do not receive support at a difficult time. It is even more cynical when one of the Ambassadors of Latvia expresses himself in public space, thus undermining the image of Latvian citizens and making life more difficult for people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “It wasn’t like that! It wasn’t!” ) On 28 January 2016, the Saeima adopted a Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Minors of Latvian Citizens abroad, announcing its responsibilities to support the interests of children separated from their families. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also has its own tasks in implementing this declaration. Since October last year, my colleagues and I have been trying to find out from the opposition how you have achieved these tasks in the last year, what information seminars have been for foster families and parents in the UK. We are still looking forward to some information on the progress of these measures. As regards Members' questions, Members' requests and the debate on 14 December last year, we have constantly asked this question, but there is no precise answer. I'm starting to look like you just don't have anything to tell. The last hope is for the honourable Commission on Foreign Affairs, which had recently held a meeting with Mrs Braže's participation. Your Ministry has been able to count possible errors among Members, following the debate on the protection of the rights of the child, and at the same time you still cannot really count how many times you have refused to help our nationals in the UK, where most of our compatriots live abroad. And how many times have you gone to court in recent years to carry out your direct consular duties? Three times? Five times? I call on you to be consistent and open and to clearly record in the Diaspora law that you will not come to the aid of the compatriots in difficult situations while they are still abroad, just as you try to deceptively record it in the Consular Rules. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “Come on, come on!” ) You are not used to working like people who really care about Latvian citizens. You are not used to working, as the representatives of the Riga orphan court do, who, for example, sat at the computer last night at 11 a.m. and thought how to help a child whom you have refused to help. The weak policy of the Diaspora, arrogance and inaction on matters that affect our greatest value - people - may, in my opinion, become the banana bark mentioned by Mrs Murniece. Colleagues! That's all I wanted to tell you about the failure of the Foreign Minister and the damage to the image of Latvia. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U61	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U62	Dear colleagues, Minister! I took note of the extremely long report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In my opinion, too many phrases, too few or no specific things for me and society. There are very many references in your speech to threats here and threats there. I am going to get more precise answers from my country's foreign reserve than any of these threats, and I would like to get a clearer understanding of what we will do and how we will do in the situation of changing the balance between global leadership, because Europe and the US are getting weaker, but the closest and outermost East are starting to form some associations, starting to create new poles of interest. What are we going to do, for example, at two speeds in Europe, where the forgotten 'coal and steel community' is being restored in a new look? We only qualify for the parameters set by Juncker in Europe at the second speed, so what you have said about our proximity to the core of the European Union is an example of what you would like to say is what you are doing. The subject of enlargement of the European Union Turkey is currently in a very high level of human rights violations by the Erdogan regime. His forces are aggressively attacking the territory of Syria without any international mandate. There would be a need for a concrete, society-friendly and accessible justification why we should support such a country's accession to the European Union. Similarly, with regard to EU immigration policy, what the Minister said about the balance between immigration and European interests has not been achieved. At the moment it seems that the policies implemented by the three European countries - Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic - on immigration issues are much more effective and more in European interest than Latvia's empty declarations and excessive obedience to Brussels. It is obvious that with us and in Europe, without even taking into account the slippages caused by immigrants, the social differences and problems of Europe's own fundamentals are getting deeper and society is strangled even further. This requires faster, more concrete action than well-known and multifaceted phrases. The subject of the European Union budget This is an important and perhaps uncomfortable question: how, without additional contributions from Member States to the European budget, will it be possible to provide the same amount as it has done when Britain has left and when, moreover, there will be new additional priorities? I think it is clear to the public: Europe wants to keep the total budget, and when the Brexit money ends, we will need to pay more to the European budget. Shouldn't we pay more? The next unanswered question I wanted to know from your speech. How and where are we going to be more involved in the EU's security and defence processes? Will we take part in the French or German missions? Let us protect Italy from refugees? We're gonna go on missions or do something else? It would have been very helpful if you included an estimate in your speech and informed the public about how much we spent on foreign missions in 2017 and how much more we will spend in 2018 and in the years to come, as well as whether our companies actually participate in the supply chains of the military industry in order to ease the increase in defence budget expenditure. Unfortunately, the whole speech is sounding through the principles of European and US elite world-building. What will be the main priorities of Latvia's specific foreign policy in the coming years - apart from the above-mentioned representation of EU and NATO interests? It cannot be read. Latvia itself lacks specific priorities as a sovereign country. Populism has increased worldwide for nothing. And the anti-elite themes you have called - this is the result of a very long one-way process, when everything has so far changed for and around the interests of the global elite in all regions of the world, so also in the Baltic region. It is quite normal that democratic society is counterproductive to the activities of the elite that are already being seen in public. But your global democratic values in society are distorted for objective reasons. In other words, it is the result of double, changed values or even lies that have been artificially cultivated for decades by the so - called global elite. The crisis in such a situation is inevitable, because living by an old elite, as defined by an elite, wants an ever smaller number of people, but a young elite does not yet learn or learn. It is so far removed from the rest of society that its thinking and ability to act in real, necessary processes are extremely limited or even completely lost. It is just a statement that Western democracy guarantees the rule of law. All forms of corruption exist in all democratic countries. Here we do not have to look for an example in our own homes. The problem of the Oligarchs, or interest groups, exists in all countries. The rule of law is often also violated within Western democracies, and the Catalonia crisis last year is a living example of this. You say that Latvia has stood up last year for the rights of minority groups and the guarantee of the various freedoms. What about the same Catalonia crisis? Did our foreign reserve clearly support a nation of one minority in Europe's desire for self-determination? Or were you waiting silently for the rest of Europe's action and position - at the first speed? Why does Latvia not position itself and propose an initiative to be a mediator in the regulation of such conflicts, if once we ourselves have gone such a path in the recent past? This could and I think it should have been done in the Catalonia crisis. For our relations with Russia. In the context of information and disinformation circulating in the public space in recent years, it has long been necessary for society to be clear that there is also a fight between different world views and the division of spheres of influence. It is not that only in Latvia oligarchs divide spheres of influence and resources; this happens all over the world. And so we've been seeing the fight of the US Pole against the Eastern neighbour Pole for not the first decade. Currently, there are technical possibilities for any party to influx both true and false information in the information space. It does all the powers and systems. Our main task in this context is not to lose our own identity and therefore our own country. Find your meaning and contribution on global issues. In recent years, even more distant EU countries have been in pain to mitigate sanctions, as sanctions have had a negative impact on their economies. I think that it would only be beneficial for our country if Latvia became a mediator in European-Russian relations. If we had at least a medium-term objective that would have been made known to all parties, this could bring an enormous benefit not only locally but also globally, because reducing tensions and prejudices between political groups should be a global challenge. And we could possibly help to maintain our country with all its citizens. If tensions are only growing and we will continue to maintain them on our own, then in a situation of maximum discharge of these tensions, or a hot war, this may end as a border area with a general crunch. We ultimately do not benefit from the aggressive discharge of the potential accumulated by the powers. As leaders of a small state, and above all you - the foreign reserve - we must follow with us and clearly show and explain the processes in the world as far as possible in an objective manner, with stakeholders in every global policy event. The time to continue maintaining the views and thinking of the monopolar or bipolar world has passed. At the moment, we are in a context of global change, where we have to set ourselves a clear position and goals for our own country and, above all, for people. First of all, we really must all recognise, in an audable way, that the policies that have been in place so far have brought an extremely critical loss of human resources to our country. In my opinion, this should be spoken of loudly and directly on every opportunity, rather than saying that it is a normal charge for being in a single Europe. In my opinion, there was a lack of concrete ideas and visions in your view, as we will now correct these political mistakes, or the questions of people who have left forever. It is proud to say that we are following the directions, reforms or principles of almost the whole of Europe, we are not allowed to forget that our country is now ending, because it is passing away in a small number, its main resource - people. No matter how much this territory is developed, no matter how many train lines are built or how much cargoes are transported, no matter how cheap the imported workforce works here, no matter how long there is a foreign army that we will pay for with foreign currency notes, it will unfortunately no longer be the kind of Latvia that our ancestors created 100 years ago and which they fought for at all times. On a global scale, we are a territorially small country, but we can be large people. I believe that we will have a time when our country will no longer be like an exchange coin or a placdarism between close and distant powers. Therefore, I call on our foreign restaurant to stop wanting to live and operate in a comfortable way in accordance with the principles of the existing foreign system or world structure by pretending or knowingly not to see various alternative ways. The world is changing much faster, and the country's development goals, including foreign relations and attitudes, need to be adjusted more quickly. If our foreign people had not been looking 100 years ago and using even the slightest way to create an opportunity to create and retain this country in the extremely difficult circumstances of the time, then today there would have been a completely different form of government in this building and space if we had taken another opportunity to make it as a sovereign territory so far. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U63	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U64	Hello, brothers and sisters! As an experienced and knowledgeable leader, I find today's debate strange. How can we appreciate someone who has not been assigned? I understand that if someone is asked to do something, it can be assessed whether he has done it or not. How can we measure something in our country if we do not have objectives, have no strategy, have no action plan? In fact, Mr Rinkēvičs, you should have come here with your action plan. I'm talking to you! He's higher, he's a minister, he's not a Member. He's taller. You should have come here with an action plan and said: 'We managed to do this, but this failed.' All that happens here, sorry, I think it's a blah, blah, blah, blah. And I have a request: if ministers, executive power, see that there is no goal to which they are going, don’t try: “Oh, we’ll get money! We will not do anything, we will show here, we will do work, we will receive money.” Well, come here to the Saeima, Mr. Rinkēvičs, and come and say, “I offer this goal. I propose such a strategy, such an action plan." We will support it. And then you will come, and we will say, “Love, Mr. Rinkēvičs, you have reached this point. That's hard for you. And here, we understand, it was difficult, you didn't do it.” But now it's all blah, blah, blah, blah! The main thing I want to say. In my opinion, the most important thing that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should do is to make sure that our economy develops so that the interests of citizens and the country are defended abroad. And my belief is that security... I understand that I have to take care of my own security. But we don't know why we understand it: if we want to take care of our safety, then we have to take it, I don't know... There Artie must talk to him to see if he's with Mr. Pimenova. First of all, we need to take care of our own security, and then we can call our help. But we're all the other way around, "You do, someone in Canada will take care of our safety!" Well, forgive me, why not the Chinese? Why a Canadian? Maybe the Chinese guy's better take care of it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Do you not think it is logical that we do to ourselves.” ), not... Come on, don't! And if you look at the dry balance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from this point of view - well, I do not see that. I would see Mr. Rinkēvičs say: ‘Vot, we are working on the Indian market, on the Chinese market, our numbers have increased there, and so on.’ Well, that's not it! And the same is true of the issues that Mrs Stepanenko spoke about. What's going on with the United Kingdom? With our children? Well, that's just crazy. I'm sorry! I forgot exactly how to name Britain. The same happens to me in America, where my children have been abducted. I turn to the embassy and pray: “I have children who have been robbed! Well, we return Latvian citizens to Latvia!” “ No, we don’t care. We have ph for it.” I say, “Now, at least, help to implement the court decision so that Latvian citizens can execute the court decision!” - “Ah, we have ph, we have shout, Nanozol!” So far, I can't say anything good about the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, many of my former employees would say: “Nanozol, you have very rarely said good for us in your work.” What else do I think is important and what must be done? In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we invest around 100 million: taxpayers' money. We need to consider why we are doing this. If we spend this money, these about 100 million, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then we must be clear why we are doing it. What do we want to achieve after these 100 million investments? For this moment it looks more like we've put on a map of the world: we have an embassy in India, China and there, and there, and there. But what benefit do we have? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “Export is growing!” ) Our citizens benefit? Why have we taken these 100 million from the pensioners? Why? We need to be justified. My view is that, if we do not have such a clear goal, Mr Rinkēvičs could come and say: "Okay, we are suffering cantors and join the common foreign policy of the European Union! There's a couple of staff left in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and everything's fine." And the last and, I think, the worst thing I want to say. Everything that happens at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shows that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs represents more of the forces and the interests of the forces that are outside the Republic of Latvia than the interests of our own country and its citizens, and that is the same, the most sad. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U65	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U66	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief. We celebrate the centenary of Latvia this year. Centenary of our country is also celebrated by our southern neighbours Lithuanians and our northern neighbours Estonians. And it's not just a centenary or a centenary I want to talk about. I also want to talk about one anniversary, which may not have to be celebrated, but which should be remembered, at least by telling it here, from the Saeima Tribute. That is, at the end of August this year, we will have lived more freely... The period from November 1918 to June 1940 and from May 4, 1990 to the end of August this year will exceed 599 months of occupation, i.e. we will have lived longer in the free country than in the occupation power. And I think that is a remarkable or commemorative date. In the Baltic Sea Commission, we have worked directly with the Baltic issues, and it is precisely about the unity of the Baltic States and the cooperation of the Baltic States that I want to speak more today. Here Mr Viļuma mentioned the possibility of joint embassies. As the Foreign Minister replied, there is already an introduction. At the same time, many may have a desire to see something similar to the Scandinavian Embassy Complex in Berlin, which was redesigned. I think that we may not be going to something like that, but, as has been said, practical cooperation in Egypt and Kazakhstan, Astana, is remarkable. The Baltic States are often forgotten because they are... Our largest trading partners, for example. If we look at last year's trade balance, Lithuania is in the first place on our export markets, Estonia - in the second, Russia - only in the fourth place. At the same time, if we look at our import partners, Lithuania is the first, Estonia - there are four and there are some Scandinavian countries in the middle. So that in this case... If the Baltic countries were not to exist, we should come up with them because, after all, there are things that we will have to do in the next four years. And one of the most important issues is the interconnection of power transmission networks between the Baltic States and Poland. This will finally enable us, 27 years after our independence has been restored, to turn the navelline to the Russian electricity networks and to become truly independent from our neighbour behind Zilupe in terms of the electricity market. The Foreign Minister mentioned the creation of the White Prize, which has existed since this year, in addition to the Baltic Assembly Prize. Finally, I would like to appeal to our Ministry of Education and Science and colleague Kārlis Šadurska and remind you that in the 1930s all three education systems in the Baltic States agreed that students from Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania learn anthems from all three countries during their school years. I think it would be a practical offer that our schools could remember, namely to teach anthems for the centenary of our three Baltic countries in honour. That's what I'm done with. I thank the Foreign Service staff and the Minister for their work. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U67	Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U68	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say very briefly about the group of Members in support of Russian civil society, and I hope very briefly to touch on the issue of Tibet and Catalonia. One student recently asked me if there was any point from the annual foreign debate at all. As a positive example, I could mention the parliamentary group in favour of Russian civil society set up at the beginning of last year shortly after the previous foreign debate. As last year, in the ministerial report on Russia, everything was said in dark colours, which is understandable - cyber security threats, Crimea, military exercises at our border, and so on. At the time, the report also included the following sentence: "At the same time, attention will be paid to cooperation with Russian civil society and the non-governmental sector". I have to admit, it looked like it was put in a bunch after. It is not for nothing that this year this topic has completely disappeared from the report. Vladimir Kara-Murza, quite a well-known Russian opponent who has visited Latvia several times, has always stressed that “Russia is not only Putin, and Putin is not the whole Russia”. Looking at past practices (e.g. the Saeima has a group of MEPs to cooperate with both the Chinese Parliament and Tibet), it is quite logical to have an initiative for Russia also to establish a second, alternative group of Members, which could facilitate dialogue with that part of Russian society, which is not represented in the current vertical of power and, admittedly, is being oppressed in some ways. Moreover, the combination of words “the part of Russian society”, we want or do not want to recognise it, also includes a large number of people living in Latvia. The parliamentary group has had meetings with local Russian broadcast media, such as the editor of the Russian section of the LSM.LV portal and many others (I will not list them at this time). We also met Dmitry Savina, who is the first and probably the only emigrant from Russia who has obtained political asylum in Latvia for the time being. He based his personal experience on the fact that Russian people have much more freedom here than Russians in their own country in Russia. It is not for nothing that the civil society movement Open Russia has been organising its largest forum for several days in Vilnius. Meanwhile, in Latvia Putin is voted more as a percentage than in St. Petersburg, for example. There will soon be the next elections, and I think you will be able to make sure that. The report now states: "There is nothing to suggest that there may be a positive change in Russia's foreign policy." So we need to be patient and I am still calling for: we can support the discussion with the other part of Russia (not Putin). Sooner or later, Russia's official power will have to change. No totalitarian regime has existed forever and cannot exist forever. I therefore also welcome the progress made by the so-called Magnitsk law in the Saeima and hope that in the near future we will join the politically responsible decisions taken in Lithuania and Estonia in this regard. We have accepted certain sanctions with our international partners against Russian officials, but the criticism of China for violations of human rights in Tibet is much more moderate. As years passed, it seems to be completely silent. The European Parliament resolution just adopted, which calls on the Chinese authorities to put an end to any persecution of human rights defenders (you can get acquainted with this resolution), and at the end of this resolution calls on all the Member States of the European Union to adopt a strong, value-based approach to China and not to engage unilaterally in initiatives or activities that may undermine the effectiveness and consistency of the European Union's action. In conclusion. A very brief question about Catalonia. Mr. Debtor has already made a very strict statement. I will not be as rigid as I call on the Saeima to set up a working group in support of Catalonia, because such groups are both in Lithuania and in Estonia. In addition, there is already a group of Members in the Saeima in support of Tibet and a group of Members in support of Russian civil society. We all understand that it is difficult for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to engage in dialogue with both parties in the conflict for one reason or another, and then the Saeima Members can come to a helping position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U69	Name to Member Ivar Freezer.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U70	Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that, in the Foreign Minister's speech, we have heard confirmation that Latvia's independence remains a priority. The Minister's speech did not mention the concept of a national state, but several other speakers mentioned it, including the Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Mūrniece, and, in particular, Mr Kirštein, who quoted one of the European Union's fathers - Robert Schuman. Isn't it so that in today's Europe, Schumans would like to be counted among populists? Does an independent Latvian state also have to be a national state? My observations are that when it comes to a national country, there is a risk of being called a populist. The view that national states belong to the past is the most enthusiastic defence of political power in Latvia, which is not currently represented in the Saeima, but seeks to get into the next Saeima. The statements of the leader of this political force about the harmfulness of a national state are surprisingly in line with what a number of high-ranking politicians in the European Union have said. Will there be another political power in the next Saeima that will defend Latvia as a truly national state, not just with slogans? I believe that the future for an independent Latvia is just as a national state. Nationality is not an ethnic concept. Those people who consider themselves to belong to Latvia, Latvian culture, Latvian language and social environment are also Latvia. And it's not as important as their ethnic background. A national state is as high a priority as an independent state, and the call for European federalisation, as the United States of Europe, is an appeal against the independence of Latvia, which is a criminal offence. On several occasions it was mentioned that independence of Latvia would not be possible without events 27 years ago, when Latvia was united in the restoration of independence. However, we must not forget the role of small Iceland. CONNECTION, you don't care about it as usual. We must not forget the role of small Iceland, which did not fear to encourage the large countries to recognise Latvia's independence with their example. At present, there are peoples in the world, including Europe, who are fighting for their independence and their national state. These nations also hope to have a courageous state that will stand up for their independence. But there are no such bravers. Will it be Latvia that will show courage? It's quiet about it. And only Mr Debtor and Mr Kirštein dared to stop this silence today and ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs questions, which I was also interested in hearing answers. But the answer was brief: it is not our business. All right. Now on the markets. We have heard how important the markets of China, Japan and India are for the Latvian economy. It was also recalled about the traditional European markets and their importance. And only one market was not mentioned. It is a Latvian market. I hope that this is due to the context of today's debate, not to the fact that this market is seen as the last priority. The Minister of Economics's speech, though indirectly, made this happen. The Minister spoke about how good the Latvian economy is that the share of exports from gross domestic product is growing and that this increase still needs to be accelerated. I conclude from this that, in the opinion of the Minister and the Government, the optimal share of exports in gross domestic product would be 100 per cent. Or perhaps 110 percent? Maybe 120 percent? How good that would be for the Latvian economy! Only what will happen to the people of Latvia? They're leaving. In the past, however, the Minister for Economics said: “Don’t worry, the departure of people from Latvia is decreasing every year.” And when everyone has left, the numbers will be very good. Then nobody will leave. That's what we're going on. Exports and foreign investments are the top priority of the Ministry of Economics. Think about it. Exports and foreign investments are a sacred thing. They create jobs. However, there is already a sharp shortage of labour to fill this job. It is therefore necessary to import the migrant workers who will then produce products for the priority objective of export. Products will go to China, to the United Arab Emirates, to the traditional markets, investors' profits will be made for investors who are, of course, foreigners, wages - for migrant workers. The question is, what will remain of Latvia? Without figures on the rapid growth of the economy. What will remain for the people of Latvia? Of course, the government and the coalition are aware of the answer to this question as well. I have no doubt that I will hear the answers, as Mr. Nanozol mentioned here, such as the Minister of Foreign Affairs, allow me to say that Mr. Debtor speaks like this... But I think that government representatives stand out for this. Okay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U71	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U72	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, high-ranking Minister! Hello, Members! I would be very happy if every year every minister came to the Saeima with his report. At the moment, that tradition is that the Foreign Minister is doing it. With regard to your report, Mr Rinkēvičs, I would like to draw attention to an issue which, in my opinion, is not precisely defined. It is uncritically accepted, and therefore it poses a threat to Latvia's state policies and, unfortunately, to the possibilities for the country's survival. In your report, Mr. Rinkēvičs, you often and falsely use the concept of populism, which is already popular in Latvia. And here's a quote from your report: "Today, the challenges for Europe's future and its values come not only from external influence, but also from within the European Union; a clear indicator of this is the growing populism that operates anti-elite themes. Using citizens' expectations, fears and fears, such forces aim to change democratic processes and undermine democratic values. From this perspective, the change in values clearly points to a deep crisis in society." Mr. Rinkēvičs! I believe that the concept of populism is very narrowly defined as an anti-elite theme, it is an inaccurate definition. The argument is considered true without a separate analysis - simply for the reason that most people believe in it. So it happens: if the populist claims that the elite ignores the interests of the people, and that his righteousness would be justified by the fact that the majority in Latvia believes in it, then that is the case. But the situation is not that simple. Mr Rinkēvičs, in fact, that justification for the critics of the anti-elite is not the only one, because everyone believes it, but it is a broader result based on research. Thus, for example, if we consider as a standard of impartiality in Latvia, let us accept the Audit reports of the State Audit Office, then the government's inability to manage comprehensively is demonstrated many times. The Audit Report of the State Audit Office on the efficiency of the budgeting process among other shocking cases states: “The Government confirms expenditure of the budget restaurant without information about what specific objectives will be achieved and what measures will be used for about 90 per cent of the state budget.” The budget is the basic government document and it affects 8.9 billion - billions! - euro. But the situation is that the justification for the critics of the anti-elite is not the only one, because everyone believes it, but rather... it is a much broader study-based analysis. If you use, let's accept, the Audit reports of the State Audit Office as a standard for impartiality in Latvia, Mr. Rinkēvičs, then the inability of comprehensive government governance is demonstrated many times. Among other shocking cases, the Audit Report of the State Audit Office on the efficiency of the budgeting process states: “The Government confirms expenditure of the budget restaurant without information about what specific objectives will be achieved and what measures will be used for about 90 per cent of the state budget.” This means that it is not clear to the government where, why and who is responsible for spending any kind of money. What conclusion can be drawn from this? The anti-elite theme - this, Mr. Rinkēvičs, is not populism! The problem is not with criticism. The problem is with the elite. The country is left in the air, decisions are taken irresponsiblely. People... and, Mr. Rinkēvičs, listen to me now! People from Latvia are fleeing. The existence of the Latvian people is under threat! You're... Minister, do you not see that? You claim that elite criticism, whether justified or not, is just the use of human hope, fear and fear. This is written in your report. The use of anti-elite themes - you claim - leads to a reduction in the value of democratic values and is a clear path to a deep crisis in society. Members of the coalition come here and also talk about populism. But the opposite is true! First... And now open your ears. The society is the deepest of the crises that have occurred in Latvia, as is clearly demonstrated by demographic data. Since 2000 Latvia has lost 18 percent of its population. The percentage of emigrants from our country is the highest in the world! The Most High in the World! You are proud that we have a very large diaphragm. Yes, we have a very large diaphragm, of course! But is it really that a very small nation like ours should boast of great diaspora in Europe or in the world? I don't think so. And it is also the highest achievement of the Latvian elite. Secondly, the importance of democratic values is undermined by questioning and simplifying the motivation of elite criticism. Thirdly, the direct path to a deep crisis in society is the functioning of the existing elite in public administration. I think there are two clear conclusions from what has been said. Firstly, it would be good for Latvia to replace the existing elites of power. Secondly, Latvia's foreign policy, as set out by the Minister, protects the existing elites who, as I mentioned at the beginning, pose a threat to our country and the country's ability to survive. That is the terrible truth. Thank you for your attention. I invite you to listen to these words.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U73	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U74	Good afternoon, everybody! I understand that the day has been long, the debate has been long, so I will start my speech with an anecdotes, who was desperately born listening to this debate. And the anecdote is as follows. The head of the family is big and tells the rest: “Our family has all the tasks divided. My wife is responsible for having the children fed so that the children have the arrangements to go to school so that I can always have something to eat at home. I am responsible for the crisis in Syria in our family, for Brexit, for the opposition of China and the United States." That is about how we are having this debate today. We're talking too much about things... I understand that it is very pleasant for a politician from this troubling to talk about things that are not dependent on him and for which he has nothing to do, they will also do. In fact, it's an empty seduction. I would very much like to hear about certain things that no one else will do without us. First of all, on the tracks of Regel, on our relationship with Lithuanians. No one else except us will deal with this relationship. I would like to hear what our position is, as we will. For several years we did nothing, and only thanks to the action of another foreign company will these tracks be restored. What? - We couldn't do it ourselves?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why is it time for the Lews to fight when their interests are offended somewhere? Consider a very recent example. Perhaps you remember that there was once such a smart lion company that took over “Rēzekne’s warmth” and actually engaged in obvious fraud. The principle was very simple: they collected money from the residents of Latvia, but they did not pay for the gas they received. As a result, there was a high level of debt and this should have been dealt with. All court cases in Latvia have also admitted that it was unlawful on the part of Lithuanians. What did the Lithuanians do? They sued us in court, and they wind this trial. And you know why? Because it was an arbitration court where each party had to appoint judges. The Lithuanian side did so and invited a strong lawyer. The Latvian side did nothing. We didn't have our judge. And it is clear that the Lithuanian judge decided in favour of Lithuania, plus ordered us to pay all the costs, which are worth millions. And thanks to the fact that the Lithuanian side successfully attracted the lawyer, we have remained foolish and will pay for all this. Next. We are talking here about the fact that we were the first to sign the CETA agreement. I would like to hear: what further is our contribution? What have we benefited from this cooperation with Canada? How have we continued to do so? For it was like what we talked about once: the gate has opened, it must be used, it is an opportunity. I very much want to hear where this opportunity is, how it has been used. Go on. The Brazilians were talked about the 16+1 format, cooperation with China. I would very much like to hear this debate on foreign policy, where there is a contribution from this 16+1 format. As far backstage as we can hear, we understand that China has already written us down and there will be no One belt, one way that could go through Latvia. Go on. If we are reading this foreign policy report, there is talk of the need to promote the greatest possible integration into the European common market. There is an economic axiom: if a number of economies integrate together and become as close as possible, then the more developed one will benefit. In Europe, therefore, cohesion policy has been established to reduce such inequalities. What I would very much like to hear, and which I think is one of the most important foreign policy priorities when we are talking about our presence on the European Union's common market, is our agricultural issue. The re-allocation of funds, the conditions for funding will start again. We should in principle declare our foreign policy that we will not allow this discriminatory treatment of our farmers, that our farmers receive much less than Greek farmers receive. We are all in the single market! We must say, in principle, that we will simply not allow this discrimination. We must declare this so that Europe takes account of our position and takes account of our situation. Will we then go over again and accept the rejection of the capes in a grateful manner, because this discrimination will be able to continue?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The next thing I read in the report. And that thing made me excited... I completely agree with this: it is a 'data driven country'. Colleagues! We have just heard about what is happening to our e-health. And that's just one story about what's happening. What kind of "data-driven country" can we talk about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Indeed, the direction is the right one, but then we need to work properly. You have to do your homework. And in this regard, I have a proposal for the Minister on how we can deal with it. Minister! I believe that you are one of the most capable ministers in the government, which can do something as well. Given that something is happening in our country only if someone pushes it aside or if it is required by oligarch, I offer you that you could build this agenda for the government. This idea of a "data-driven country" is a very successful one. And, you know, if we didn't spend the pointless money that... Nobody has been able to explain why we needed a deal with Conexus, why we had to buy it, save existing shareholders. There went the enti... Ten million, we would have put it into your idea of a “data-driven state”. We could do a lot. Now we have wasted a lot of money, and no one has been able to explain for what. Because the legislation was all in order, so the unwanted shareholders had to leave there and they could only come in favour of us - the ones that we need. So instead of working and attracting a strategic investor who would come to understand and know how to use this infrastructure effectively, we have simply wasted money in vain and have become hostages to this situation. Because, you see, Conexus is so special... It is a special feature of Inčukalns that whatever it belongs to, it is and will remain in our land, Latvia, and work according to our laws, according to the rules that we will impose. So there's a question: what's going to do better: a country that doesn't have any sense about this business and that's putting it in another country, that is, not its own, but ours, the taxpayer, the money, or the strategic investor, who will have this understanding and who will lay his money there and think how to work more effectively for this infrastructure? A very interesting position with regard to airBaltic. It is also a strategic company of our importance, but from there it is not why the country wants to go out as far as possible and leave nothing, although the situation is completely the opposite: it is a company whose assets can very simply be taken away from the country. The shareholder may have very different interests than the state, and he can really do so. Yeah, obviously... the investment project currently being carried out by airBaltic is perhaps too large for Latvia's country. And to the investor... The new investor may be tempted to simply take away these assets from Latvia. I'm talking about new planes. One more thing. I think that is most important when it comes to what should be done in our foreign policy. We need to understand the global challenges that are coming up and the factors that determine them. And one of these factors is scientific technical progress. Yes, it involves a lot of unknowns, but... and there is a discussion that we should then do, how we could be as ready as possible for these challenges. The answer is very simple: if we want to be ready, no matter what challenges we face, we need to understand that in order for us to be able to respond to them... This is our guarantee that we are ready for them, to make sure that there are susceptible and creative people here. The more creative and responsive people will be, the more successful they will be in meeting these challenges, which means that we will be able to exist in global competition, become more competitive. We will be closer to the desired goals. At the time you implemented your “success story”, I warned you about what it would end for you. That was obvious! And its problems with the labour market, as we are now seeing, have come up. At the moment, politicians lack the courage to talk about how serious these problems are. No matter how we try to improve our demographic situation, it will not be possible to close the pit of this workforce. It will not be possible to resolve on our own that the social system is sustainable, so that we have a decent labour market here. And it is clear that we need to start thinking in good time about smart immigration policy if we want to maintain Latvia as we are seeing it now - with the values that are important to us. Otherwise, the wave of globalisation will come and wipe us out. It will simply be because our economy will not be productive enough, big enough to be able to assimilate here the benefits that globalisation can bring, and then we will get what remains of all the others. And it will be very, very unpleasant for us and our society. I therefore ask you to think about one thing, namely what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could do. It has already taken the first steps. This is about the export of higher education, about the possibility of pumping the brain in here. If we do not start doing this now, if we do not have an ambitious policy, then we will get what will be left over. And the things that are left over, you know, no one will want to see here in our country. Therefore, it needs to prepare for the time, not for the cowardly to lay its head in the sand and wait for everything to light up again. It's too late then. Therefore, I call for far-reaching conclusions to be drawn so that the centenary of Latvia, which we are going to celebrate this year, is not in the last history of our country. Thank you. Let us be courageous and responsible! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U75	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U76	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! Sir, There is enough criticism today about Latvia's foreign policy and about the report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In my opinion, much of what relates to the activities of various restaurants, some other ministries and certain Latvian institutions in the international field is currently relevant to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - both the work done and the work not done. I do not want to deny that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to review everything that is happening in our country in the area of foreign affairs. But each of the players obviously has its own role and responsibility, and I think that Latvia's foreign policy has a very important role to play for us, the parliamentarians. The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia directly works through those parliamentary assemblies in which we have delegated our representatives, as well as in other formats. In my speech, I will try to touch more on those issues concerning Parliament's activities in foreign policy, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Baltic context, in the context of the Baltic Assembly. Some of these things have already been mentioned today by Mr Viļuma and Mr Srollis, but there is one very important area in which I believe that both the Latvian Parliament and the parliaments of all three Baltic countries have been visible in the whole European space in 2017. And this area is the area of the Eastern Partnership. The report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, speaking about the enlargement of the European Union and the neighbourhood policy, states (I quote): "In relations with the Eastern Partnership countries - Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine, Latvia stands in favour of giving a clear European Union perspective to those countries that wish to join the European Union in accordance with Article 49 of the Treaty of Lisbon. Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova have shown their active interest so far." We know that very well. These countries, as well as Latvia's support for their territorial integrity, were mentioned today by the Foreign Minister in his speech. That was also the case in a number of other speeches today. The Latvian delegation to the Baltic Assembly and the entire Baltic Assembly, in cooperation with our three Baltic Foreign Ministers last year, had an opportunity to actively, I would even say - play a proactive role in shaping the European Union's entire Eastern Partnership policy. And how? Here I would like to mention, in particular, last June, the international conference on the Eastern Partnership organised by the Baltic Assembly in Riga, in which representatives of both the Benelux Parliament, the Nordic Council and the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly, as well as the Visegrad countries participated actively, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of all three Baltic States, but especially the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia, provided great informative support for the organisation of this conference. Now that not only this conference has been held in Brussels at the end of November at the European Union Summit on the Eastern Partnership, I can say that what we did together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in June has had far-reaching consequences. And this is confirmed by the fact that, already in the run-up to the November summit, we received at the Baltic Assembly the words of appreciation, the acknowledgements of recognition from practically all the leaders of large international organisations, practically all parliaments and states, that what was spoken in Riga in June - that it was to a large extent the basis for decisions taken in Brussels in November. By this I just want to assure you that if we want to, we can be active and, although we are small countries, can work together to develop a common European Union policy. Also in December 2017, at the annual session of the GUAM Parliamentary Assembly, representatives of the Bureau of the Baltic Assembly confirmed, including in my speech on security policy, their support for the development paths chosen by the GUAM countries, as well as their support for the principle of territorial integrity and, in particular, for the Euro-Atlantic integration of Georgia and Ukraine. The Baltic Assembly, as well as the Latvian delegation to the Baltic Assembly, are clearly aware of the importance of the support that we, the three Baltic States, have given to the strengthening of democratic principles in the public administration and our path to membership of the European Union, NATO, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and other relevant international organisations in the past to the Nordic and Nordic Council, the Benelux countries and the Benelux Parliament. Participation in these organisations, I think we have had - and even more so now, there is a geopolitical situation! - a certain kind of guarantee for the security of our Baltic States, for the stable functioning of the economic and financial system, for the growth of the well-being of the population and for many other things. On the other hand, when it comes to the Eastern Partnership countries, it should be said that now, as never before, the governments of the Baltic States and the Baltic Assembly have a duty to attract their partners in the Nordic Council and the Benelux Parliament and to continue to support both the GUAM countries and all six Eastern Partnership countries in mutually open dialogue and, as far as possible, in establishing real cooperation with the countries of Western democracy. My emphasis today is just one of the active activities implemented by the Baltic Assembly in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia - in addition to our own internal cooperation in the three Baltic States, which has also been active in the field of education, welfare and demographic policy in 2017, in the field of transport and energy, in the field of culture, internal and external security, health care and the development of emergency medical assistance. In each of these areas, the work done jointly by all three countries has been sufficiently successful. There have, of course, also been mistakes, but very often there have been situations in which the corresponding three-country restaurants are only active when the parliamentary pressure from all three parliaments in the Baltic States has been strong enough, long enough. And that's the function of... This is the way we can strengthen the security of our countries, the development of our countries. A big problem remains that, although the Baltic region is small, very often we are trying to compete with each other where cooperation is needed. Today too, in several speeches, both on the railways, on this section of the herring and on other things, it was heard: the Lithuanians do so, and what do we oppose? It is not a question of what is one and the other, but rather of how we can address these issues in the most rational way possible. And as a result of these parliamentary negotiations, we know now that a train can go from Vilnius to Daugavpils; we have fought for this in the Baltic Assembly; we have talked about Valka... ( Milestones.) on the problem of the Valka railway node to be able to drive by train from Riga to Valka and Valga. These issues have also been resolved. What else do I want to mention? In 2018, the Swedish Presidency of the Northern Council is the Presidency. And Sweden has placed cooperation between all eight Baltic and Nordic countries at the centre of its Presidency, prioritising digitisation. At the end of last year, the so-called digital Northern Declaration, which includes issues of intensive cooperation, has been signed so that the digital single markets in the whole of the European area develop according to a scenario that is beneficial for our region, so that we put the foundations together and that all developments are in the right direction for us. These are now very topical issues. Given that in 2018, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia and Latvia launched its Presidency of the Baltic Sea Council, I wish that our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and all this restaurant have the opportunity to work actively with the Nordic countries to build...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U77	Mr. Wuzan, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U78	... European policy in the interests of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U79	Thank you. Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U80	Hello, honourable Members! Dear Minister, My speech will be very short. A few years ago, I reminded the Minister that I think in this foreign policy report he usually forgets to touch on a very serious direction of international cooperation, namely the environment. However, I very, very much wanted, Minister, this time to hear a demonstration of Latvia's readiness to implement a common climate policy with Europe and other reasonable countries in the world. I also very much wanted to hear proof that Latvia, like other HELCOM countries, is very seriously concerned about the fate of the Baltic Sea and that it is ready to cooperate actively in reducing pollution. And regardless of political contradictions with neighbours, it is necessary to promote cross-border cooperation in the field of environmental condition and pollution control, which was very important at the time when the oil spot flooded the Daugava to Latvia. Climate change and pollution are security issues and also economic issues. This is something we see every day in newsboards from around the world, so international cooperation in solving these problems, in my opinion, deserved to be mentioned in just a few sentences in the report. Wishing you luck, I also wish you to travel for floods, storms and orcs. Good luck!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U81	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr Rinkēvičs, as rapporteur, do you want to add something or explain? Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U82	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Presidium! Dear Members, Honourable Members! Thank you very much for the very different opinions, for the very different ideas. I will divide my final speech into two parts. Obviously, however, some questions, as the Speaker of the Saeima said, need some clarification and an answer, and two final words will also have to be said in due time. Because of the lack of time, I had quite little contact with the two points raised by Mr Kirštein in the previous debate. The first is on investment protection contracts. I would like to say that the government has already approved some time ago the proposals made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we will denounce all the investment protection agreements that were concluded with the Member States of the European Union before our accession to the European Union. Already on this Tuesday, the government approved the first two draft laws to denounce such agreements with Poland and the Czech Republic, and this process will continue, because we are, of course, bound by the principles of law in the European Union. And the other thing. Yes, because of the lack of time, I did not answer for Jerusalem, for all the questions concerning the Middle East peace process. Now I would like to express once again the position expressed both in the Saeima's Committee on Foreign Affairs and in discussions with Members in the preparation of the positions in the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council. We still believe that the only way in which the Middle East peace process can successfully end is through the existence of two countries - Israel and Palestine. We believe that there have been three events recently, particularly in December, which do not contribute to this process. The first is the decision of the U.S. administration to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to move the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, which does not contribute to this process. The vote at the UN General Assembly also did not contribute to this process. And, honestly, the statements made by Palestinian politicians, too, do not help to resolve this process. We also saw this on Monday when the European Union's foreign ministers met with the President of the Palestinian Authority, Abasa. But at the same time... We do not currently believe that, within the framework of this existing policy, the recognition of the Palestinian State would facilitate the process. There are different views in the European Union on this issue. Yes, we know about Slovenia's decision not to recognise, as you said, Mr Kirštein, East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine, but... The Slovenian Foreign Minister spoke about Slovenia's recognition of Palestine as an independent state. It's a little nuance. In this case, I believe that, at present, we should not rush into any hasty actions. We must play an active role within the European Union so that, at least on the European Union's side, there is a policy as united as possible with regard to the Middle East peace process. Mrs Stepanenko! In December, there was already a debate here on children's rights. In order to save time, I would not like to repeat much of what has been discussed here. But let us not forget that we need to be correct! The Embassy of Latvia abroad, especially in Great Britain, is doing absolutely everything - and completely responsible! - to provide support to the families of our citizens. But at the same time, you always try very much to conceal that, under international law and the conventions binding us, the primary responsibility lies with the orphan courts and the Ministry of Justice, while the embassies are assistants to these matters. This policy will continue, we will do everything to help our citizens, but I would very much like children not to be hostages of political rhetoric. Mrs. Silver! It was hard for me to understand your speech. I had the feeling that you must have confused the agenda - you talked about the oligarchs of Europe at a time when there is a foreign policy debate. (Applause) You will be able to talk about this when there is the final report of the parliamentary inquiry. On sanctions against Russia, on everything else, I think we have very fundamental differences. Let's keep each one to his own point of view! Mr. Nunozol! In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we were both talking about individual issues, and there you were so satisfied with the answer, as my ambassadors told me. But I will say again: in the first nine months of 2017, trade with the People's Republic of China has increased - 13.5 per cent; exports to the People's Republic of China - 11 per cent; imports - 14 per cent. The Ministry's budget is not 100 million, but 67 million. And it could be, of course, more if you decide it in next year's budget. The bigger the budget will be, the more we will have the opportunity to operate in Latvia's economic interests. Mr. Zarins! Thank you also for your good words. From the opposition it always sounds encouraging and a little frightening. But I can answer for three things. The first thing is about the rails of the Angel. It is not that Latvia allowed only one company to work. At the moment when we realized that the dialogue was not working, we were working very actively with the European Commission to defend our interests. You know the European Commission's decision. We are also working on it and will follow Lithuania’s commitment to restore its tracks by the end of 2019. As well as the Treaty between Canada and the European Union. It entered into force at the end of September last year. So it is not even half a year yet, but I am already aware that one of our furniture manufacturers has literally just started trading in Canada, and I want to hope that the rest of our industries will follow, because we see great potential on the Canadian market. I completely join in saying about higher education as an export product. I would even say that: there is not so much for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will do our job. Here is the question of the ability of our universities to create new programmes in the relevant foreign languages, and this will be a question that you will always discuss in the context of education policy and language policy - how much and what languages of the European Union can our professors use without knowing the national language. But on this point, I think we are in agreement. Mr Vucana, thank you for what you said in connection with the cooperation between Parliament and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on many different issues. We certainly see the Saeima as a good partner. Finally, Mr Līdaka, I can assure you, quite clearly and firmly, that Latvia will be on the side of the reasonable countries on climate change. Perhaps this was not recorded in the report. Then let it sound from this triple. And I can also assure you that we are working very actively on the conclusion of a four-party agreement on environmental problems in the Daugava basin, as well as with Belarus on the exchange of information on nuclear safety issues. I hope that Mr Gerhard will conclude this agreement with Mr Kučinska during his visit to Belarus in February. Unfortunately, not all our partners are prepared to conclude these four countries' treaties as quickly as we do. To conclude, honourable colleagues (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “The number of emigrants?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “), thank you very much. This must be the moment at which, when we close this debate and start this centenary year, this quite difficult year, which will, of course, also be for Latvia's internal politics, taking into account the elections and all the rhetoric that will be... We will continue to discuss various issues in the commissions, to talk about very important things, even if they seem to be just details. Unfortunately, we cannot accept for the obvious fact that Latvia is independent forever and will be independent if we do not work every day. Let us not work in internal politics, let us not work on many issues from the economy to education and culture, and of course also on foreign policy. Let us not think that one or the other of our words is not noticed here. Let us not think that our actions are not noticed. Let us remember that our elections are followed by no less interest than we are following the interests of many other European Union countries. We have a choice. Not only the current geopolitical but also, in a way, the European choice. That will, of course, be in the hands of the voters. It will be in the hands of every political party, who will begin elections and then elect the new government, and vote in favour of the government declaration. At the same time, I want to hope that, despite the rhetoric, despite the fact that it is the simplest thing for us to talk from this troubling to say that Europe is at stake, everyone else is at stake, but not us ourselves, we will find power to build our country, defend our interests, and then there will be less to be caught outside, but more to be proud of what you have done. Thank you for your attention in this centenary foreign policy debate. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U83	I thank Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs for his report. Consequently, the Foreign Minister's annual report on the work done and the planned activities of the country's foreign policy and of the European Union have been examined. Dear colleagues, Members Dzintars, Krādnieks, Gaidis Berzins, Mūrniece, Cilinskis, Kols and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and as the next item of the agenda behind the annual report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the work done and the planned activities in the foreign policy of the country and the European Union, to include the draft decision of the Saeima “On the withdrawal of Deputy Inguna Silverba from the Parliamentary Commission of Investigation on the signs of state theft and the quality of pre-trial investigations in criminal proceedings No 168790000911”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Intercretion: ‘ Yes! Yes!’ ) Members wish to vote. ( The intermediate call: “Do not want to vote! ” ) Please call us! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision on the withdrawal of Ms Inguna Silverba from the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the signs of state theft and the quality of pre-trial investigations in criminal proceedings No 16870000911 as next item on the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 39, for - 4. ( The ring of noise.) Consequently, there are changes to the agenda and the draft decision is put on the agenda as the next item. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member Inguna Silverba from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the signs of state theft and the quality of pre-trial investigations in criminal proceedings No. 16870000911”. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U84	Colleagues! I would like those who have proposed changes to the agenda today and who have proposed such a vote to come here and motivate the need for such a vote from the platform. It's just a circus, an absurd circus you want to continue. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Lejiņš: “Circa are making you!” ) What is the point of this decision? Instead of being able to work, you're... Are you afraid? - What? Are you afraid that this report will be read? What are you afraid of? You cover oligarchus? What about things, come and tell me! Why should this circus continue? How long are we gonna make a circus from the Saeima? Sometimes it seems to me that those restrictions, so that animals cannot take part in the circus, have been accepted purely for reasons of competition. ( The Room Noise) Just to make such a circus here in the Saeima, and you wouldn't have competition. Come on, please, and tell me why it is necessary to continue with this absurdity. Thank you. ( The Room Noise. (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U85	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U86	I want to join Mr Ivars Zarins. I'm an idiot, I don't understand what this is for. What is the purpose of doing so? I can't see the dry balance of all this. You can call me an idiot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U87	Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U88	This step had to be taken at the very beginning of the investigation panel. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “What did you not do?” ) Yes, and I was the person who proposed it at the beginning of the commission of inquiry. And I also justified my opinion because it is impossible to lead an investigative commission a person who is mentioned in concrete negotiations as a Prime Minister, supported by Russia. And it's not just the negotiations, we all know the contacts of Mrs. Silver (who has publicly spoken) with the former head of the Russian Federal Security Service, Sergey Stepapin (for example, in the New Wave). And because of this, the Commission voted for the withdrawal of silver - at the very beginning of the committee's term of office. Unfortunately, the majority of the commission did not support this. I believe that, also in the light of the rendezvous and unspecific final report, this is a symbolic vote on Inguna Silver's responsibility for the report as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U89	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U90	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The symbolic vote was last time, then it had some logic, even though the meaning of the large one was not at all for the withdrawal of silver. But okay... I then voted in favour of the withdrawal. At the moment, I voted against and will explain why. Because the report has actually been finalised, the panel has completed its work. If the Saeima wants to prolong the work of this “loving” committee, for which I see no meaning, because the report that Silver has written is not... In fact, if we now withdraw him, it will in any case be read - either by the expression Silver, who has written this miracle, or by Schic, whom he will entrust, or by Ritvar Janson, who may be making this report. But what is the logic behind this vote?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I should have voted when I had to vote, not now make the end of the circus! I really don't understand!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U91	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U92	I don't know, Ringold... I like everything that's going on here right now! Well, that's it. If you love... If you love... Hosam, you know about love, don't you? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “Yes, I know!” ) If you love, you're sorry, don't you? Let's say, last week, the National Union did not get there. It came today. Very good, very good, really! It is good that this vote is there and it has come to fruition, and the Debtor has not taken the card, and Kirstein has not taken the card, and Kursīte-Pakule has also voted, and even Rebena has voted... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rijana: “You will see this!” ) Paklanos! But when Schic reads this report, it will be interesting because... Mr. Schitz, I don't understand your motivation at all. A week ago, journalists asked you specific questions: “What does the report say? Why is it written there? Why?’ You could have answered? Nothing you couldn't answer! At the moment, you have a separate report, your own opinion. Suddenly! As little Mārtiņš Schics (I think - in size) you have always, I think, consistently voted, as Mrs Silver has told you. I do not think that this report has been written by Mrs Silver. I don't think it's written by Megulis or, let's take Shitz or, let's take Pimenov. No, no! I think someone else wrote it. But we could take away this right... Of course, Mrs Silverba is familiar. I think you have read at least. Give Shitz the chance! Let him mention another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U93	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U94	Colleagues! It seems to me that a large part of us know why these 15 signatures to exclude Mrs Silvera from the parliamentary committee of inquiry have been submitted today. She knows, right? Why today and not last week? Because the media reported last week and social networks also showed statements by individual parties that the Kremlin's agents have won because Silver has not been demolished from the parliamentary committee of inquiry. The media reported that the evil ZZS... but - all due respect! - in front of the camera, Mr Brigmanis expressed his position that he still did not want to withdraw silver from the commission, and so the STECF did... I'm sure I'm sure I'm sure I'm fine. What about the truth? In the vote on the exclusion of silver from the Commission, the difference between the 'yes' and the other group - 'abstention' and 'no' - was four votes. And if we looked at three votes last week before this vote, 93 Members had registered and all 93 brothers voted in favour of amendments to the Civil Procedure Law and other draft laws. ( Milestones.) It is the vote on Mrs Silver... How much took part in the vote, and how was it registered? 87 and 93 respectively. Six cards have gone out somewhere in the air! There are four votes in the vote, colleagues! Six cards are pulled out. It's all clear! It is a political market. And even though the fight is taking place on such aggressive fronts against each other, we are well aware that there is some kind of trade here. That is why I had to sit for half an hour and explore who just had these cards taken off in order to dispel doubts and make it easier for journalists and the public. On behalf of the Association of the Regions of Latvia (which, by the way, voted in favour of the exclusion of Mrs Silver from the Commission) I would like to submit to the Saeima presidency a proposal so that, in the future, all the votes show the choice of all 100 Members of the Saeima, or their actions, what they are doing at that time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What have they eaten!” ) Because so far only those who choose one of the four versions - vote in favour, 'no', 'abstain' or not. There is a fifth version that significantly changes the balance of votes, and that is: to remove a card and not to be registered. I call on the Bureau to prevent this error, to give journalists better opportunities to analyse how each of the heroes - the heroes of the people - acts in a very responsible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U95	Name to Member Valdis Nanozols, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U96	This is what I see as an attack on a vile woman who has been left without a group. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Who would have talked about women!” ) Well, I'm sorry, Mrs. Silver is not in all those corruptions... You want to say that Mrs oligarchi and Mrs Silver were concerned with the gold bridge, Citadele and many other things? Don't laugh! ( Internouncing call.) You don't have to do this here! I... When we have to talk about corruption, I will tell you where I think there is more corruption. Yes! You don't have to humiliate a woman! That's enough! ( Insight: “What is the woman?... ?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U97	The debate has not yet been closed. Debate... Mr. Zarins, you're going to have a debate with one minute? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “In full! Absolutely!’ ) Name of Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U98	Thank you. I would like to continue on this subject of hypocrisy. National Association, everything was in your hands! You could have ensured that the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry was more successful, much more successful, so that there was no whole circus, because you were offered to run this commission. And you would have had all the necessary voices. You would have collected the necessary support, led this commission and could prove that you really want to fight the oligarchs. You chose to cover both oligarchus and... The main reason why you did not do this was you wanted to cover up this insolvency scandal that had arisen just before. And in order to distract attention from this insolvency scandal, you were interested in having a parliamentary investigation commission as it was - that there should be a scandal there and that public attention should be distracted from the scandal that you liked the most. So that you were the main ones - those who took this intrigue and made it parliamentary (Interface.) the work process of the committee of inquiry is pointless. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) That is the truth! We all see this right now! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U99	It's time for a break. The debate will continue after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the communication of the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U100	Colleagues! Not registered at the moment: Aldis Adamovičs... is, Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ainārs Mežulis, Arvīds Platopers... And Platoper... Edgars Putra, Zenta Tretyaka... And... and Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U101	Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U102	Honourable Members! Everyone has already taken their chairs in the Saeima sitting. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member Inguna Silverba from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the signs of state theft and the quality of pre-trial investigations in criminal proceedings No. 16870000911”. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U103	Hello, colleagues! In the previous such vote, I voted in favour. And, believe me, it wasn't just... nor, let's say... This was a carefully weighed decision. And what happened? It happened that the National Association just pulled my voice out. When Mr. Smilten counted on the Twitter all the figures that he was reading here for us now, the National Association recalled: “Do we have a day, we have voters to think about!” And now you come with this campaign of your PR to vote again in favour of the abolition of silver, which basically does not change anything. Personally, I do not care who will read this extremely lightly report in what voice it will sound - the silver, the Shitz or the Jansons. I don't care. But I do not need to take part in your justice process before the voters. And this time I will vote against. ( Interface: “It’s wonderful! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U104	Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U105	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mr Sergeant, one thing you said correctly: our constituents are important to the National Union, and so we are able to respond to our votes. A significant vote on the question of Inguna Silver was at the time when it had to be decided whether to entrust her with the work of the commission in question or to entrust her with the work as a commission manager. We remember very well how the National Union voted. The national association was against it, just like most of our constituents. Since most of the people present know how the Union of Greens/Farmers voted, Mr Sergeant, the Union of Greens/Farmers voted largely in the last sitting as well as in these important votes. We know that very well. See another's eye a speck and try to make this speck bigger just to overshadow your own beam - I think it's not a fair attitude towards my constituents. Yes, the vote last week, just like this time, is only a symbolic vote. It is just an attitude vote - do we believe that this has been a normal situation or believe that it has not been a normal situation. Of course, I recognise that several members of the National Alliance also considered this to be just a symbolic vote, which does not distinguish between substance, and perhaps did not participate in it at all, given that it can also be used for political purposes. We're not a voting machine. Everyone can have their own motivation. However, after this vote, we saw that our constituents... We are not ashamed to say, and that is regardless of the proximity of the elections... It is important for our constituents that the National Union also express its position in a symbolic vote in a very clear and unambiguous manner. And we're not ashamed of it. We are proud of it. That was when we entered the Saeima in 2010, it is today, and it will always be so. I wish everyone had such principles. That is why we will be expressing our attitude today to the situation that has arisen, namely that the commission that investigates these negotiations is led by a person over whom there is a shadow of suspicion... No one has said that it is guilty, but there is a shadow of suspicion, and this is the wrong signal about the standards that we would like to apply to the parliament of the Republic of Latvia. I therefore call for the vote to be taken on the withdrawal of Inguna Silver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U106	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member Inguna Silverba from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the signs of state theft and the quality of pre-trial investigations in criminal proceedings No. 16870000911”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 42, for - 4. No decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, the name of the Member, Inguna Ribena, for the report on the motives for voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U107	Dear colleagues, The fact that the creation of this commission is a farce, that its work will end with nothing and will only be a pre-election advertising platform for the party Movement Par! I - with my experience - was clear at the beginning. On the other hand, a week ago, realizing that time and resources had already been wasted, it seemed absurd for me to release Ingun Silver from responsibility, because it doesn't change anything anymore. Therefore, I did not participate in the creation of this commission, nor in the production of the silver cancellation. But throughout this week the slogan “Stop with Silver!” at the end of the committee's work - and on the already voted final report! - continued to shock public opinion on social networks. On social networks. Fragment from the interview with architect and entrepreneur Uldis Pilena. When asked about the impact of technology on modern society, he answers that they do not always contribute to human development. The quote is: "So far, there has been a need for stress to get to know-how. In the past, there may have been only three or four books at home, but they were read and read with a much deeper understanding of the content. If we look at how people read the tweet now... Goethe once said that a person should speak a language that is slightly higher than his level. It gives the tension to pull around, makes it better. But the entire social network adapts to the level of the lowest user, and so you slow down yourself and your development.” End of quote. Today, in solidarity with the will of the majority of the voters, I voted in favour of the release of Inguna Silver from commission management. And, moreover, with a calm heart, because I want to bring him to everyone's understanding, humanely hard life.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U108	Thank you. The name of the Member, Janina Kursīte-Pakulė, for the report on the motives for voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U109	Dear colleagues, Irish playwright Samuel Beckett just 70 years ago wrote an absurd play “Wait for God”. The main characters of the Great and Gogo await some of God’s people who, in their opinion, will bring meaning to their hopeless existence. Did the writer not know God or a strong person who can change things? Every day, heroes wait for God, but God does not appear. Lug ends with the words: “They don’t move from place to place.” What does this have to do with my vote this week and last week on the withdrawal of Inguna Silver from the parliamentary committee of inquiry? At the last Saeima sitting, I did not vote because I felt that anyone who has taken up this work and has been elected Head of the Commission should also complete this work and be responsible for it. I was against Mrs. Silvera as the chairman of the commission from the beginning. But if the majority of the Saeima had appointed him in that position, I thought that she should also be responsible for the commission’s work by submitting a report on it. The Legal Bureau of the Saeima also argued that there is no prohibition on a non-member Member of the political group to conduct a parliamentary committee of inquiry in the Rules of Procedure. People's faith and perhaps another belief that the removal of Mrs. Silver from the commission's chair and from the committee's composition will be able to wipe out all oligarchus as the mouth of the sorcerer is a matter of freedom! I cannot stand against the faith, so this time I voted in favour. For its part, I want to believe that what we or some of us expect from this vote is not God!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U110	Member Artuss Kaimiņš also wishes to speak, but this is not possible because no motivation has been put forward before the vote. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš' intermediate calls.) No statement of reasons has been put to the vote. The roll of order applies to all Members as well. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš' intermediate calls.) Please turn off the microphone on the station! Mr. Neighbours, please, take a seat in the Saeima sitting room! The roll of order applies to all Members, no matter what area they come from - also to actors! On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mūrniece, about the procedure, please?” ) Please turn on the microphone for the Member of the Neighbourhood! On the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U111	So the situation is as follows. The head of the Unity Group, Hosam Abu Meri, did not take part in the vote because his attack did not work. This vote is not legitimate and must be put to the vote. Hosam Abu Meri has voted but has not worked. I understand that there is a line of order, but in this case this vote is not legitimate. I ask for this vote because I did not work under the chair of Hosama Abu Meri, which resulted in... Both the River and the Dalder are witnesses to him. That is the situation.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U112	Please turn on the microphone for Hosam Abu Mary, who can explain what happened or did not happen. (Applause, laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U113	Yes, indeed, I press 'yes', but did not accept the vote... And there are also two witnesses, two vice-presidents have already seen it, and so... ( Milestones.) And already submitted... ( Mallies, laughter.)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U114	So, Commissioner Hosam Abu Meri, do you suspect that the voting system has not worked? Technical break 15 minutes. Please take a test! ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U115	Honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. We have received a report from the Technical Department Head on the operation of the system. He informed us that the voting system had been tested and was on the agenda (and also on the previous vote). But in order to eliminate all suspicions, the registration of Members is requested, and such a proposal has also been received from Members. Please call me! ( Internouncing call.) Please register the Members! Please get the result! Name to the member of the Saeima Secretary for the results of registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U116	Colleagues! It has not been possible to register at the moment Aldis Adamovičs (Laughing Hall). , Andris Berzins, Boris Cilevičs, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ainārs Mežulis, Andris Morozovs, Arvīds Platoperas, Edgars Putras and Jānis Trupovenis. They're not in the hall either.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U117	Thank you. So we find that the system is on the agenda and works. On the agenda - reports from the Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Regulated Professions and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cruanzdependence Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On National Referendum, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. The Foreign Affairs Commission has submitted a draft decision on the organisation of the meeting of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Parliamentary Network “On the Road” in Riga in 2021. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Hosam Abu Meri from 16 January to 19 January this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Mr Hosama Abu Meri, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 16 to 19 January this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 24 and 25 January of this year, Mr Janis Trupovnieks was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Jānis Trupovnieks requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 24 and 25 January of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On appointment of Ilze Andriškina as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U118	Hello, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 24 January this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Ilze Andriškina as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. On the candidate Ilzi Andruškin. Born on 17 January 1986. He has received a degree in law and a degree in law. The previous work experience of Ilze Andruškina is related to the case law. Ilze Andruškina, as candidate for the position of judge, worked from June 26th 2017 until December 8, 2017. The candidate received a positive reply from the Chair of the Administrative District Court. The reference indicates that Ilze Andruškina has a very good knowledge of law theory and administrative process. The candidate for a judicial post is very well able to organise his work. She follows the discipline of work, is able to qualitatively analyse complex and large amount of information, is able to understand criticism. The comments of the Chair of the Administrative Regional Court show that Ilze Andruškina is autonomously able to perform tasks, perform them carefully and responsibly. Good orientation in material and procedural administrative law rules. During his traineeship, he showed the level of knowledge and skills relevant to the duties of a judge. The Chair of the Department of Administrative Cases of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Latvia in his statement about the candidate Ilzi Andriškina indicated that during the traineeship Ilze's behaviour and attitude towards work allow to conclude that Ilze will perform the duties of a judge correctly, responsibly and qualitatively. The Judicial Qualification Committee gives a positive opinion for the appointment of Ilze Andriskina as a judge of a district (city) court. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Ilzi Andruskinu to appoint a judge of the district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U119	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the appointment of Ilze Andriškina as a judge of district (city) court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Jolanta Uminska as a judge of the Land Register Division of the District (City) Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Alexander Jakimov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U120	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 24 January of this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Jolanta Uminska as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (city) Court” was reviewed. To the candidates. Jolanta Uminska was born in 1974. She's got a lawyer's qualification. According to the decision of the Academic Information Centre, the qualification obtained by the lawyer is equivalent to the professional master’s degree and fifth level professional qualification. The experience of Jolanta Uminska's work so far is related to the case law, including the judicial system. From September 2007 to November 2009, Jolanta Uminska worked as a judge in Riga district court. From 10 April 2017 she is a candidate for the position of a judge. About Jolanta Uminska has received positive feedback from the head of the Land Registers Division of Vidzeme District Court of Riga. The reference points out that Jolanta Uminska has proved himself to be a knowledgeable, wise, thoughtful future judge and colleagues who will be able to trust safely. Jolanta Uminska has also worked in a college of the Riga Regional Court, and in his opinion the Chair of the college of the Riga Regional Court of Civil Cases has indicated that the candidate for the position of a judge carried out the tasks and tasks assigned to him independently, the projects were prepared with care and responsibility. His relations with the staff were insatiable and polite. The Director of the Department of Supervision of the Judicial System of the Ministry of Justice indicated in his report that overall during the traineeship Jolanta Uminska's knowledge has been assessed very well. She considers that a candidate for the position of a judge can successfully perform the duties of a judge. The Judicial Qualification Committee shall give a positive opinion for the appointment of Jolanta Uminska as a judge of the Land Register Division of a district (city) court. In view of this, the members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Jolanta Uminska to be a judge of the Land Register Division of the district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U121	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the appointment of Jolanta Uminska as a judge of the Land Register Division of the District (City) Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U123	Agenda item: processing Members' requests Requests received by Members’. Dear colleagues, The Parliamentary Bureau has received a request from Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Sergeja Mirska, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Klementyeva, Jeļenas Lazareva, Jānis Urbanoviča, Zenta Tretiakas, Igora Zuvėvs and Sergeja Potapkinas, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvils Asheraden, for their replies to questions No 371/J12 and for the compliance of the Ministry’s actions with regulatory requirements and public interest within the framework of the ‘OIK moratorium’ established by the Government. The request shall be open to all Members. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. On behalf of the applicants: Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U124	Colleagues! This request concerns the meeting of the Request Commission yesterday. We had a special sitting. The Appeals Commission did not decide for some reason that the Minister should not be given the opportunity to reply in writing to the questions asked, contrary to what the applicants had asked. If the members of the commission wanted the Minister of Economics to give his own oral answer, its readiness was so great that... CONSUMER Members were ready to discuss matters immediately, without listening to the request at all, and on issues that were not at all contained in the request. Consequently, a specific procedure has been established for applicants to submit a written request but, according to the commission, the Minister has to reply orally to that request. The applicants, on the other hand, have practically no opportunity to question the Minister orally, because the members of the Commission so eagerly wish to participate in this discussion process of the Petitions Commission that the applicants had to prepare the questions again in writing so that we could continue to examine this request. The questions we had no chance to ask... And assuming that the desire of the members of this frivolous commission to ask the Minister is because they really are interested in this issue and want to know it, not so that the applicants are not able to find the truth, we have prepared our current questions in writing - those that we have failed to ask. Personally, I am, of course, touched by the interest of my colleagues, because, I will admit, I had already accepted the fact that I had to work alone for the long winter evenings in order to deal with this OIC. And now I understand we're all going to do it together. I will continue to prepare these proposals, questions, requests on which we will then be able to discuss together further. Thank you, colleagues. We're going on. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U125	The request shall be submitted to the Requesting Commission. On the agenda - “Final Report of the Parliamentary Commission of Investigation on the Signs of State theft and Quality of Pre-trial Investigation in Criminal Procedure No. 16870000911”. Rapporteur: Ms Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U126	Dear colleagues, The work of the panel has been completed and I would like to report to you now on both the reflections and the findings. I have long been thinking of how to present all this comprehensively and intelligiblely, and I decided to start with all clearly visible and understandable facts. Our country has so far followed almost all the so-called principles of Western democracy and world perception. Of course, like everywhere else in the developed world, with us, Latvia, if not everything, much is determined by the limited groups of people who are fighting for the growth of their resources and areas of influence. And also in Latvia, institutions have been set up to look after and neutralise these groups. Here, with a serious face and quite strong accusations, the institution in question began many years ago to listen to the so-called oligarch telephones, which it did for many years - even in a situation where the hearers knew about it. Then followed by an investigation into the information received over five years, which ended... or published in the publication journal. This is evidence of an ongoing leak of information. Next, a parliamentary committee of inquiry was set up to assess the strangeness and failure of the previous investigation, as well as to understand whether theft of the state under investigation and the influence of the public media had taken place at all. Like some of my fellow Members in the legal field, I did not want to take part in this process at first, because I saw no sense in the layout that we had in our country for parliamentary investigation and for the Commission six months ago. We have long seen and felt that our country is being divided, divided and redeployed again and again. But I don't care what happens in Latvia. Therefore, I was very interested in who and how to create and maintain a system that defends his own and desires, lies only in those who are dangerous to this system and its interests, as well as in how things can be investigated with any assigned vector or lead to any necessary final result. A colleague named Judin pointed out that the World Bank study in Latvia in the early 2000s, according to some parameters, had very high risks of political corruption. Even then, there were signs that there were people or groups using power to make them have a better life in that country. We see that today there are no longer only signs or risks - corruption is unfortunately Latvia today and reality. Now, as the people say, everything happens after a full programme: a full-cycle system has been created and exists - money and opportunity providers maintain those who further organize politics, monitoring instance, and also watch media, creating an illusion to the people so far through the media that democracy is all right with us, or creating noise in other matters, and thus distracting public attention from the essential. The whole of this organised system produces and generally aims to deliver the necessary results for both money and opportunity providers. It is not even essential for the end of such a full-cycle system, which part or combination of it is in power. It does not matter whether or not who will become, for example, a judge, a project manager or a journalist. Only the functioning of the common system is important for the providers of money and opportunity, but who, in particular, will get to power, to the levers of an institution or to any other material resource - it remains under the responsibility of the workers or is completely left to the so-called natural selection. That's what I'm saying, to win the best of our efforts. So every moment we see someone who's more active than another citizen, who's doing everything he can to get out of here, and he's doing everything he's doing better in this system. Clearly, it is not possible to prove such a system within any particular countermeasures, because this full-cycle system has enormous potential for resources and it creates the possibility of using these resources in such a way as to create conditions and processes, or to completely conceal its participation and realisation of its interests, or even more nihilistic! - find ways to make your action legal. In particular, the situation has been created that almost every single gear of the system is legally sound and perfect, as well as an illusory opinion that this is necessary for society. However, no one has yet been able to see and stop and to legally punish the entire system. I think we should all be clear now: our expectations are that the anti-corruption authority's gear alone will take it and will reveal it all, punish it and break it down are in vain. Whatever the case, this gear is not even intended to combat the whole system, so many of the slogans that have been heard so far by these respectable institutions and by some of their former employees during the trendy make-up interviews are just to justify their existence. Inadequate administration of the law enforcement authority and investigation of cases are not suitable for a developed society, it is only beneficial for system makers because they gain access to state resources in their own interests. In a weak political power environment, the superiors always become directly forceful structures, and they become presumptuously all-powerful. Consider another example. My reality is today: in a country where power belongs to the people, I, a member of the people's election, even as the head of the special parliamentary committee of inquiry, cannot have access to the file of the case, because, here, another body of power that we know does not, in principle, allow. Still - without justification! For all the years of my work, I had access to NATO's secrets under the control of the State, but now - nothing. I can't even get acquainted with the material of a case that was, in principle, inappropriate for someone's criminal liability. It can be called in different ways, but it is, in principle, a manipulation of the rights granted. You will say that everything is formal, legal and unpunished. But whatever you say, it still achieves its goal: there is a negative impact on a process that is important to society and on the activities of the people involved, or even blocking them. So one gear protects another gear or even the whole mechanism. Protects from me who does not fit into this system that creates the system risks of being decrypted; from me who creates it despair because it is impossible to expose me, bribe me or blackmail me. Do not doubt that I am not valid for this full-cycle system, the system of state and nation exploitation! I and many of my political colleagues - we are acting differently. Judging by the intensity of the blackmail and the opposition campaign, it seems that it is finally highly appreciated. By the way, about this extremely polarised view of my connection with the oligarchs and the subject under investigation. I don't specifically and consciously launch a campaign of justice or anti-vilification, because I don't have something to do about, and I don't have to fight for anything to prove. This study material contains the names of many people. Do we now have to suspect all these people and everyone? Moreover, if this material has not yet been considered to be a proof of guilt, why is it that my name among many of them is highlighted and searched, as if it were some more evidence? By the way, it is called defamation or defamation and defamation of a person; this could be offended by every blasphemy if it were possible to raise his or her conscience for each particular instrument of the system. However, I do not view wrong minds and insults. I understand that some of these people do not understand what they do and why, because they are just instruments of the system. It's a classic formula: at first we don't notice you, but when you continue to do what you've taken, then you start humiliating and slandering, then there's a threat and all other possible methods of stopping. There is a wide range of arsenals - to exclude financially and physically from action, you can also act as an additional trigger for the fearful and selfish members of the team to turn away from you. If you endure and survive this stage, then only then! - hearing and counting begins. This formula isn't my figure. It works wherever the interests of this full-cycle system are at stake, and then the system's resistance to self-preserve occurs. At the moment, I express my vision, knowledge and my conviction, which is based on the material and report of this committee. This conviction has been hardened in six months’ work in such a difficult situation that I have no reason to feel that I have a whole Inguna Silver Office. I think I don't have to read the final report here because it's still... there will be shown only a small part of the size and functioning of the entire system. I also believe that the main characters of this “oligarch series” are quite at the heart of attention, so now I will not start reading what has been said and done, nor will I measure the size of their lies. You have already read it all, and now look at the attitude of these few people towards the country themselves, so we have. The developed and bright part of our society already realizes that this show is not by itself the main part of this full-cycle system. The main punishment that we should pay as a society is to completely turn away from such people. This would be even more serious than the fact that they would actually enter prison, but with oligarch-specific comfort environments. The surrounding people are those who give them this oligarchism with their fear or even admiration when they want to enter their favor status. However, the fact that most of the conversations that have been heard have not come true means that we, as still a light-thinking society, have the potential to disobey such a system and its employees. I am glad that these materials have come to the attention of the public, but I am disappointed that this is happening to us. I can really thank you now that I and the public have, and will in future, be, much more visible and understandable about the operation and methods of such systems. In your own pride, in your conviction of impunity, and in your permissiveness, you have shown it to me and to the public. Now the work of the commission itself and the technical nature of the matter. Summary of the Commission's conclusions We support the organisation of a discussion by lawyers on the concept of "conservation of the state" by means of legislation. We created a provisional definition of this concept; we defined its characteristics in four points. State grabbing and even planning efforts should not only be punished morally and politically; such efforts and crimes should also be punished criminally or administratively. In order to do so, it is necessary to discuss and incorporate in legislation precise definitions, including an accurate and clear procedure for renouncing the Member. We have defined and indicated ourselves a number of improvements and additions to existing regulations. Since criminal proceedings were terminated and the persons involved are considered innocent, the Commission refrains from discussing the content of these negotiations or expressing its attitude towards certain persons, as this may enable them to exercise their temptation to address us or the State. The Commission believes that the law on lobbying must finally be drafted and adopted - it is imperative that a clear definition be made of the methods allowed to influence policies and the criminals. Conclusions on the winding-up proceedings. The activities of investigative bodies in establishing and demonstrating the facts as well as a disproportionate promotion of the staff of the safety authorities themselves during the investigation shall not be permitted. The quality of investigations in security institutions is currently a very topical problem in general, therefore we raise the issue of renewal of the Latvian Police Academy. Despite the obvious and significant problems affecting the work of KNAB with regard to staff and remuneration policy, their resolution was delayed - so the investigation was hindered by the institution's head's inability to manage his institution and staff. We also conclude that KNAB has not cooperated at all or has not cooperated sufficiently with other law enforcement authorities on its own behalf, which may have affected the evidence base and thus have been able to terminate this process quite freely and unilaterally. However, we have no reason to believe that the termination of pre-trial proceedings would involve political or other unlawful interference on the part of the leader of the proceedings. We note that there is no reason to complain about this criminal proceedings to the Prosecutor General because he does not carry out, in accordance with law, an investigation in certain proceedings; therefore, these publicly expressed accusations can be evaluated as cases of legal incompetentness, but, to put it more seriously, it is a trick of manipulation of the attempt of some persons to raise their public awareness. Since the Commission is neither in fact nor in law competent and entitled to evaluate the conduct of the investigating institution and staff, we invite the Prosecutor General’s Office to set up a commission from representatives of different law enforcement institutions and to carry out a counter-analysis on the grounds of the initiation of criminal proceedings, the progress of the investigation and the result, making conclusions and assigning responsibility to certain officials. We consider that the publication of case-files is not justified because the view of the person may be unduly cultivated or this may lead to claims against the State for breach of the principle of presumption of innocence. Conclusions on magazine publications and media influence, exposure to possible events. There is no reason to doubt that the “Rīdzene” conversations published in the magazine form part of much wider criminal and case-files. We believe that the entry of this material into the public domain must be the responsibility of those who were entrusted with keeping a secret rather than the media who published it. It is therefore up to the law enforcement authorities to find out how these materials came to the media for public publication. Although the Criminal Law does not lay down liability for the unlawful influence of the media and for the deliberate disclosure of misleading and untruthful information in the media with a view to manipulating public opinion, the known offences are, however, a major threat to our society. We believe that there is a need to find a way of determining the responsibility for buying or otherwise influencing journalists, as well as for the deliberate manipulation of public opinion by means of the media. At present, our legislative framework is too liberal and allows the use of the mass media to manipulate public opinion in the interests of some groupings, distorting public opinion. We did not get facts to prove that the owners of the daily newspaper or the real beneficiaries had been concealed or that illegal manipulation of the content of the newspaper or public opinion had taken place. However, we found that there are several other media in Latvia that do not perform objective tasks of journalism, but serve the formation of public relations between politicians and the struggle of political misdemeanour. The indications given in the sittings of the Commission or the analogys heard about the procedure for solving the political issues implemented in the “Rīdzene” negotiations provide the basis for us to invite the Saeima to assess the compliance of the so-called Coalition Council with the Constitution, because such an institution is not provided for in the Constitution. However, persons other than members of the Saeima of the relevant parliamentary term shall also participate in the coalition council. Therefore, decisions that affect democratic or other processes of public interest in the country are or may be taken in this Council. My presentation in the last section is my conclusions and the challenges identified. Since the concepts of theft and lobbying of the state are not formulated in Latvian legal documents, it is not clear whether the investigators of KNAB did not wish to consider each individual suspicious episode as an attempt to capture the state or even the fact. As the public is informed of any leakage of information from KNAB at any time, it seems that the main purpose of this particular investigation is to obtain information only in order to keep some of the information in a certain sense of discomfort or blackmail, while others have access to some important information. Moreover, the role of this information intermediary was also legally justified by KNAB: an investigation into the case has been initiated, so that the hearing of the negotiations was also conducted within the limits of the relative rule of law. In particular, the so-called investigative activities of this KNAB are not to investigate events or circumstances but to find an opportunity for itself or someone else to discredit certain persons. In addition, the fact that one of the main negotiators had already known that he was listening within two weeks also created a resultless situation on the basis of legal considerations that the negotiated materials so heard could not be used directly in court proceedings. The proposed case, which the investigators managed to ‘create’, was deliberately designed with weak grounds or guidelines. As a result, it was possible to close the proceedings after a certain period of time, so that by legal means, this form of obtaining information had no effect and did not have the desired effect for the public. The question is, why does KNAB only base its accusation on negotiations? Was there no other evidence? This question has been referred to the appropriate authorities. KNAB's public information spills: this must be studied in greater depth, specifying those workers who carried out such activities. The discreditation method is used worldwide and each such episode has its own stakeholders and objectives. Will this be clarified and lead to a positive result - the defence of society? This will be demonstrated by the future actions of our law enforcement bodies. All the investigations carried out by this KNAB and the related processes are like an action criminal show with a dramatic first series, but later the director drew it in length - too many series with cheap specs and a permanent, unpleasant aftertaste. I hope that this institution and we will all be able to draw reasonable conclusions and make all necessary changes at all levels in order to bring about the complete elimination of such folly. Theft of the state. I think this has been the case a long time ago, even many times! For the first time, it happened when the crusaders came to stay. Then came Swedes, Russians, Germans again and so on. Finally, theft and sale of the state was carried out diligently by our own, Latvian, cangari in the last 30 years – even through multiple division and redistribution. In general, all the visible signs are, in my opinion, sufficient, and I have found that theft, robbery, destruction of the state has taken place. Our main problem in small Latvia is that for years we have been unaware of what we are going to and why as a nation. This results in the troubled coexistence of weak policies and strong groups. We are so busy and busy here on Jēkaba Street and in other public institutions that, without raising our heads over our paperwork and political cuisine negotiations, we do not notice how our people die or are bitterly leaving here. People are different. There are also those who take part and organise these destruction processes - they have been at all times. Unfortunately, so far they have been more industrious and proficient than others. Will it continue to be so - it depends on every citizen of Latvia. Of absolutely every country! At other times, even the most invisible person can do a thing that causes good and correct changes even in the scale of space. There are those who are telling me that the commission did not do everything possible to end theft and stop these thieves and sellers. I have done everything possible to do so - in so far as the deliberately created legal environment in our country allows me to do so, so that I do not get into the trap of the system myself. Now you can all know the essence of what I know and what I have concluded. Although many expected this commission to initiate a case or charge important and loud to the planet, in the reality of today Latvia it is not possible to do this to one of me with a small group of like-minded people. This will only be possible when the desire for positive changes will prevail in society, not now, when only the creators of negative images and energy are extremely diligent and loud, or those who, at the time of this noise and magic, are trying to get some pre-election for themselves and their party. The rest - most people - are unfortunately waiting only for miracles or hiding behind my back, waiting and demanding of me impossible. There you go, Mr. Judin. Take and propose in your coalition a draft law approved by the entire Saeima and publish these materials! Otherwise it happens that you try to throw me down by making me public the names of the people in the conversation and those mentioned. I am very grateful for this experience. Although at first I was opposed to the creation of such a commission and participation in it - where is the position of head! - But I accepted this challenge. Now, after all, I can express my thanks, first of all to all and every representative of the Commission. I express my gratitude to all those who humiliated me, tried to destroy me morally, and drew it through thoughtful dirt. I also thanked those who then helped me clean and stand up. I became smarter. I understood what my existing colleagues and now your former colleagues are, what you are, my cooperation partners. I became even smarter about the structure, forces and methods of the current management of Latvia, which are sometimes used to stop unwanted or threatened people. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “In your name!” ) Such a weak policy and the existing national human exploitation systems do not allow for the rule of law or the economy to which the harmonious society is seeking and with which it could be built. It is necessary to change my thinking, yours, all and every human of our people - all the nations - in principle. You will not destroy the system at the same time as one or more gears because it is professionally locating itself. This system must first be destroyed in itself, maintained the mind of the slave or traitor, and should take full responsibility for his own life. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “On the report!” ) Stop, however, at last waiting for something from others! It will be necessary to raise your own character and raise new challenges for yourself and for the benefit of all lightly - minded people. We can be led as long as we are afraid of our pennys, square meters, or material status. We will continue to be guided while we are sleeping or trying hard, but we will not change anything. This full-cycle system is not built by the ziborgs or any of their aliens... ( Interface: ‘ Speak about the report! ’) ) It has been built with our hands (Interface: Mrs. Moore!) ) and it feeds us and our children.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U127	Mrs. Silver! I really must join my fellow Members in saying: you should report on the final report adopted by the Commission. This, of course, does not need to be read by name, but should be kept to the final report.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U128	I'm doing it right now. “ She’s been talking about the report for a long time! Did you just notice?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When we begin to be aware of this, let us begin to understand what each individual can do. I believe that most of the employees of this system are knocking on the heart once in a while, suggesting that they should do different things, that they should do the right thing. My faith and my experience show that such people are and exist that the heart is beating all - and that is what inspires me to go on. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “On the report, not your own experiences!” ) Thank you, colleagues from the Commission. Thank you to those who helped us to do the work of the commission with the best conscience and with pure intentions. Thank you to those who voted for my stay in the commission’s post (Interface: “Clear off the microphone!” ) so that I could finish this work, the result of which many shook hands. I also thank you for the opportunity to lead this parliamentary committee and to see, understand and appreciate everything that is. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U129	Let us start a debate. On behalf of the Unity of the Group. - Member Hosams Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U130	I won't talk about it, no... Yeah, I know, colleagues, you're tired and it's hard for you to listen. I'll try faster. I had a good speech, but I would like to express my sincere condolences to Mrs Silverb for all the emotions she received today, and I will try very carefully... not to talk about personals, I will talk more about the Commission as a whole. I took many things out and I'm going to try to feel her, so I'm going to really try to be a little milder. What do I mean? Since the Group's Unity from the very beginning... I won't read my speech, I'll talk more like that... From the outset, we were opposed to Mrs Silverba's work as part of the Commission. Why? We believe that her work in the Commission could in fact end up in a conflict of interest, because the “Rīdzene” talks say: “It has been decided in Moscow that we need Silver as a Prime Minister.” If you remember, we also spoke about this at the Saeima sitting, and our group's representative, Mr Judina, has also spoken about this several times, namely that it is impossible for a commission to be led by someone who has some kind of conflict of interest. What do I mean? The residents of Latvia deserved a parliamentary investigation commission during the centenary of the country, which would objectively investigate the facts expressed in the “Rīdzene” negotiations. However, this conflict of interest, in which the head of the commission was present, unfortunately reflected in the work of the panel and also influenced the content of the final report. Therefore, the final report is unfortunately of low quality and without any result. It's the only one! - The really important work of the panel is to make sure that “Rīdzene” published in the magazine “Is” is authentic – contrary to several... the statements made by the participants. And while it has been concluded that the signs of theft of a country in the “Rīdzene” negotiations are visible, no person has been named on behalf of it. Then the question is, why? For example, the result of the Maxim's tragedy parliamentary investigation commission was a huge list... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Seven!” ) a huge list, and it was written that those people were morally responsible. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “And politically!” ) On the other hand, in this case, although we know that there has been a conversation between the people of a particular group - that they were sitting and speaking about how they would divide the country... State authorities among their interests, they thought about the privatisation of airBaltic, they talked about “Latvijas Pasts”, they spoke about the port of Latvia and so on – they are unfortunately not mentioned anywhere. How does the final report look? It's very simple! Looks like an excerpt from the hospital. You may have seen an extract from the hospital: it contains the name of the patient and the treating doctor. The doctor - these are the four members of the Commission who are voting on the final report. Unfortunately, four representatives - one from the LRA, one from the SACA, one from the ZZS and one from the Silver... Well, Mrs. Silver. What do I mean? The conclusion is that there is no treatment method - nothing! It's just a diagnosis! You know what diagnosis they found? They found cancer here! Here in Latvia, there is an oligarchic influence... is a disease. Like cancer - a large formation with three heads that need to ever be removed. After that long time, no one wants to get rid of it. So what's going on in this Saeima? It's very simple! Our Saeima has a very serious influence on the oligarchs, and it is continuing. So from 2011 to today nothing has changed. The same oligarchs still have an impact, and therefore there is no result! Therefore, I would like to call on our Saeima Members who vote in favour of that final report, or representatives of parties to apologise to Latvian citizens for the gift they wanted to present in the centenary of Latvia. I am ashamed that in our Saeima - the 12th Saeima - comes with this result. Actually, it's a circus that took place for the last six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U131	On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance - Member Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U132	Dear colleagues, The opinion of the Group of the National Alliance of Pauses. The company awaited a clear and direct assessment of the activities investigated in criminal proceedings carried out by certain persons from the conclusions of the work of the commission. Unfortunately, the final report does not give such an assessment. The majority of Members of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry did not consider ethical condemnations to be important for the activities described above. The National Association considers that, from an ethical point of view, the intentions or actions of individual persons recorded in criminal proceedings which show signs of state theft are to be condemned. A well-known law scientist, Egils Levits, has defined theft of the state as an unlegislative influence on the state's decisions outside the democratic process and on the use of that influence in order to profit materially. The signs of theft of the state are visible in the activities of former Saeima Member Ainars Šlesers, which was developed with a view to developing the acquisition of temporary residence permits with the help of investments in the interests of one particular private business project (on February 18, 2011 in accordance with the amendments to the law were led for adoption by the Saeima). The National Association raised concerns about the consequences of this process long ago. In 2011-2014, the issuance of temporary residence permits was not sufficiently balanced with the ability of the Security Police to verify candidates for temporary residence permits. This posed risks to national security. From 2012 to 2014, there were only six cases where the Security Police had refused a residence permit. For comparison - in 2015 the Security Police encouraged not to grant temporary residence permits to 38 foreigners. If Sleser's plan to issue large number of temporary residence permits for investment, moving this process in the interests of one particular private business project, the security risk would have been even higher. Now it is even clearer why Ainārs Šleser and his political power defended the preservation of Russian in minority schools. The children of Russian-speaking buyers could learn in a comfortable environment without seemingly unnecessary burden - proper learning of the Latvian language. The signs of state stealing are also visible in the scheme of the intention of several criminal witnesses, which provided for an agreement on the election of a particular person to the board of the Freeport of Riga on 7 October 2010 in exchange for the contract concluded between the Freeport of Riga Authority and SIA Media House on the placement of paid advertising. Without the ethical condemnation of these activities and understanding that theft of a state is not in line with democratic political processes in the country and democracy in general, it is not ensured that theft of a state does not happen in the future. Neither can we talk about who led to the cessation of criminal proceedings. It can be concluded that during the criminal proceedings KNAB was unable to gather legally uncontested potential evidence. The investigation was also not supported by the fact that, when the Prosecutor General's Office saw that criminal proceedings were of state importance, it did not create an investigation team from the investigators of the Prosecutor General's Office, the Security Police, KNAB in order to obtain potential evidence and strengthen them. Such a group is allowed to be established by Section 30 of Criminal Procedure Law. The conclusion of the final report of the committee of inquiry, which questions the basis for initiating the so-called oligarch criminal proceedings, is a concern. Because the conclusion calls for an investigation into why the proceeding was initiated at all. In the case of Oligarhus, KNAB had sufficient operational material to initiate criminal proceedings. At the time, it was suspected that the officials used their status for their greed, and that is why, with even the slightest suspicion, an investigation had to be initiated. At present, launching a new investigation into the origin of the criminal case would be a public emergency and a waste of money. The conduct of such an investigation would allow the public to question the legality of the State.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U133	Thank you. on behalf of the Group. - Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U134	President-in-Office. Honourable Members! The publication of the public talks in the magazine created a very strong emotional background. Let us keep this in mind. Like all of us, the media spoke emotionally to express their opinions more convincingly. The open content of external ear conversations in itself is of interest. The fact that those belonging to the fine circles did not judge the words that were proper for them gives the impression that a view of the keyhole was opened. Hence, the material published in the magazine was inevitably destined to acquire a very powerful manipulative force in society, which we all watched. Let us remember that the flow of information was twice, also on the Internet, but then it did not have the result of publication in the magazine Ir. Let us keep in mind that the emotional background is not enough for criminal proceedings to be brought to court. The evidence obtained in the pre-litigation investigation must be objectively sufficient to indicte the charge. And that's the main conclusion. If the evidence is not enough, the accusation cannot be said, and so all the work that had been done before is, in fact, worth very little. When assessing the work of the panel, it is also important to conclude what has not been done and what additional costs have been incurred. Contrary to what Mr Janson said, the commission has not received any evidence that the materials published in the Ir magazine are authentic in the case of operational development or in the case of criminal proceedings. It remains unclear whether information has been leaked only from criminal proceedings or from operational investigations. Some invited parties showed that they had both participated in those non-public negotiations but did not say specific names, in particular those that caused particular public indignation. The prosecutor supervising the criminal case, Maris Leja, who was delegated to participate in the meetings of the Commission on a permanent basis, confirmed at the meeting of the Commission on 15 August 2017 that certain loopholes of non-public negotiations are different from those of audio recordings. It remains unclear why, after long-term operational development of the case for criminal proceedings, such investigation directions were selected, where the non-public negotiations obtained during the operational actions were sufficient for the initiation of criminal proceedings, but were not sufficient to indictment. The Commission also did not obtain any new information as to whether the content of the operational development case could become the basis for a new criminal procedure. It remains unclear who has led to the release of secret information from a public authority, so - who has committed a crime. The Commission also received no information on the circumstances under which the discharge took place and when. Both a criminal case has failed and an abnormally long operational development, which it has not prepared for the indictment of convincing material, and the repeated release of sensitive information from the KNAB, all of which shows that this institution is ill and even its director will not be able to cure it if the crisis is systemic. It's a state grabbing. At its meeting on 29 August 2017, Andrejs Judin, a member of the Commission, in his presentation explaining the substance of this concept, referred to the quote from Egils Levite, quoted just before me by Mr. Ritvars Jansons. Mr Levit has said that the grabbing of a state is defined as an unlegislative influence on democratic processes. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mrs Silver has spoken about, that there is a formation such as the Coalition Council. The decisions of the Coalition Council are referred to by all those who have no laziness at all; even the current Prime Minister, like the previous Prime Ministers, standing in front of the television cameras, literally says: “Behold, let us wait for the Coalition Council decision, and then the government will decide.” I would add that not only Members and Ministers are present at the meetings of the Coalition Council, but also politicians from the leadership of the parties that make up the coalition. The terms of reference of the coalition council have not been defined in any document, so it is not legitimate. So...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U135	Mr Pimenova, your debate is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U136	... The influence of the Coalition Council on national decisions... I can go on for another minute?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U137	You can ask for an extra time - two minutes, combining the two speaking times.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U138	Okay. I agree. I'm asking for a little more time.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U139	Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: Yes! ) And objections? Please call me! Let us vote on whether to allow Member Pimenov to unite both speaking times! Please vote mode! ( Pause.) Depp. A.Kamiņš: “See, don’t work!” ) Please vote mode! ( Pause.) Impressions. Depp. I.Zariņš: “He would have finished talking in the meantime!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U140	I'd really finish in 30 seconds... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Noise in the hall. Depp. A.Kamiņš: “The bed doesn’t work! What do you think of those who vote for you? Technical break!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U141	Please, colleagues! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Votes are not legitimate! Let's start all over again!' ) Please continue the debate. Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U142	Thank you. I will continue by repeating my last sentence. I mean, for a building like the Coalition Council... the importance of this formation in our country is very important, we all confirm and understand it, but the competence of the Council is not defined in any document, so it is not legitimate. Thus, the influence of the Coalition Council on state decisions outside democratic processes is a sign of state grabbing, because the Saeima, expressing its trust in the Cabinet of Ministers, does not express trust in any other council, including the Coalition Council. I have never attended the meetings of the Coalition Council, I have never read its minutes. No magazine (at least for the time being) has published the decryptions of materials of the Coalition Council, so I am not ready to engage in extensive discussions at the moment. However, it is clear that it is necessary to improve the definition of what we call an unlegislative impact on national decision-making, i.e. outside democratic processes. Otherwise, any date heard may become a reason for the opening of a criminal case. To conclude, I was the Member who nominated Inguna Silverb as President at the Commission meeting on 21 July 2017 and I have never regretted that I have done so. I have also not regret the fact that the Commission has supported my proposal by a majority vote. Mrs. Silver was an excellent guide to our work. ( From a political group, Unity: “Da well! ” ) The tension and pressure on Members was enormous. I am speaking because, I think, all of what I have said applies precisely to the final report. I think that the work she has done will also be part of the heritage that we will proudly leave to the next term. Let us learn from the work done. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U143	Dear colleagues, Members Upenieks, Abu Meri, Brigmanis, Urbanovičs and Dzintars ask to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption until item 9 of the agenda, i.e. the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, and to announce a break until 9 a.m. on 1 February 2018, after considering this matter. Do Members have objections? Members have no reservations. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Dzintars: Yes! ) There are objections. Okay. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary sitting to continue without interruption until item 9 of the agenda and then to announce a break until 9 a.m. on 1 February 2018! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 80, for - 3, for - 1. Decision adopted. We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U144	If you can't destroy something, then take control of it. That is probably the decision that was made in the summer when we set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Mrs Silver does not deny that she did not want the commission to be set up, but she was forced to agree. To prevent the commission from working to make it a farce, she was nominated as chairman of the commission. And we see the result today. You have the final report in your hands. And one who evaluates documents according to the number of pages says: “It has been hard work! More than 100 pages!’ But my suggestion is to read the content. And, unfortunately, we have in our hands an obscurant, empty document, where there is no content, where there are only general words. It is, of course, important to say general things, but it was also very important to carry out the tasks that we have formulated with the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry. And those tasks were clear and understandable. We had to look at and assess whether there were any indications of a country's grabbing. We had to see whether KNAB, the prosecutor's office worked effectively. And unfortunately, these issues were not important to Mrs Silvera and her team, who always voted together to really interfere with the parliamentary... Parliamentary investigations. And as a result, we have not only a lead, a poorly prepared report, but also a discredited parliamentary investigation as such. I believe that Mrs Silver must take responsibility for such inefficient work. But by nature. I will not read my own thoughts today, because the volume is large and there will not be enough time to read everything. But I would like to focus on the most important thing. First of all, it must be recognised that state grabbing is not just an academic concept; it is a real phenomenon that existed and unfortunately still exists. And there are Members in our Saeima who, I understood, served and will serve the oligarchs. In their votes, they are guided not by the interests of the state, but by the actions of the teams. And that's very, very pathetic! And as a result, there are people who use power to benefit themselves and those close to themselves. They make decisions in their own interests. And unfortunately, Members, politicians - a number! - serve such interests. But the fundamental question to which the Commission should have answered was why, in the presence of all the evidence obtained, the criminal case was closed? And I have to admit that the problems are both for KNAB and for the prosecutor's office. The KNAB, after hearing these talks, was probably convinced at the very beginning that there was so much evidence that there would not be any difficulty in bringing cases to the prosecutor, indicting and condemning the perpetrators. But probably KNAB did not appreciate the capacity of our oligarchs, their support in the Saeima and other institutions. And we see the result: the case is over. And it must be admitted that there is no white in this case that did everything correctly. The work of KNAB was also not effective enough. And I really had to do more to get and strengthen the evidence. There was also a major problem with the prosecutor’s office, which took such a sceptical position from the very beginning. Instead of taking responsibility and taking over the investigation, because the law allowed it to be done, the prosecutor's office asked for more evidence, said that there was not enough evidence. And in the end, we see that the case is over. I would also like to emphasise: the report states that the manipulation and editorial influence of the media are facts that have not been confirmed. When reading the case-file and assessing the evidence, I can confirm that there are several facts, there is evidence that indicates that editorial freedom was affected. I saw that a number of companies that did not legally belong to our oligarchs were de facto his property. I asked for two more minutes to be able to finish.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U145	Are Members opposed to the extension of the time for debate, combining the two speaking times? There is no objection. So two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U146	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues, I really... There's little time. I can speak for a long time, but I want to say a few important things. I set out my own points in my proposals for amendments to the legislation. I see problems in our Criminal Law, Criminal Procedure Law, Operational Act. I believe that it is our duty to work to make legislative changes. I very much hope that not all those present will work on order and try to track up the relevant proposals, because without changing anything, we will wait for new things. I understand that those who try to use the country for their own good will only be happy about it. But it is our duty, when we think about the interests of the country, to do everything to make this impossible. As far as this matter is concerned, I think it is very important that the material of the case be made public. It is not a matter of publicising all volumes. There is no such goal. But there are some documents that need to be made available to the public. And to ensure this, the laws need to be amended. On this point too, I think we will be discussing. I really very much hope that colleagues don't care... I hope that colleagues will not be indifferent to the facts we have seen in the file and that, at least in the majority of the Saeima, we will be able to join forces to change the situation and really prevent in the future cases where people are using power for their own purposes. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U147	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U148	Colleagues, I was also one of those who signed an application to set up such a commission. I did not expect the results to be devastating, because it is known that the law enforcement authorities are those carrying out operational activities. However, there was a need for results. And one thing that we really see and that may be admiring for Mrs Silver is that the votes are changing. What is the effect for Mrs Silver if the attack starts to break if Members disappear from the medicine through decisive votes?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And now it's serious. In the foreign policy debate, we talked a lot about the people who have been lost, the Diaspora, the people who have left. Colleagues, these are all the consequences. The issue we are talking about today, on the other hand, concerns one of the most important reasons why people have left. That is what has ruined confidence in its own country. You ruined your belief that the money you pay in taxes goes to your business - to the benefit of society. These are the reasons why we are talking about these consequences for the people who have left. These negotiations, on the basis of which the so-called oligarch case was opened, show that men meet in a narrow circle not to discuss, for example, how to provide better education for our children, how to prevent the destruction of the health system and not leave people without help. No, they simply divide assets, resources, negotiate votes and lead the country. There are three possible plans. There is a Latvian National Development Plan... These are Latvia's plans, or visions, which reflect where we want to arrive as a country. There is also some kind of plan in public consciousness. Perhaps there is a plan outside the borders - I do not know, for Russia or for someone else - with regard to the country. But, I think, the most important thing that emerges from these negotiations and from all this process and is becoming clear to the public is the third plan, that is, the plan of the people who, by nature, lead the country. And their plan is not in line with the plan that we are trying to draw into our visions - some national development plan or somewhere else. But it's good that their plan is illuminated. And their plan for the future of Latvia is illuminated from the positions of the same influential men. And so the emergence of different existential issues is worrying. Once, one President of Latvia asked: “Who am I?” One Member, in turn, asked: “Do you know who I am?” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It was me!” ) That was you, yes! And then one lady asked... No, she said, “It’s not me!” ( for leopard coat speaking). And so many are also trying to argue why they shouldn't have led this commission. But the influential men who took part in the negotiations immediately after their publication stated: “Is that I in those talks? Are these negotiations real?” And they questioned the authenticity of these negotiations. I think the second good thing from the whole of this process is that at least finally it has been clarified - this is the most important, the greatest added value for this investigation! - that the negotiations have taken place and that the publication actually corresponds to the entries in the file. What has been agreed there is, by its very nature, the truth. And there is an important factor in the question of who really owns power in Latvia, what the role and influence of SAID in Latvia's policy really is. The illusion of hard work in opposition has been created, the inability to reach decision-making and exclusion. But Einstein has said: “Even though very persistent, reality is only an illusion.” We had a real wish... In the 11th Saeima, a particular party wanted to draw SACU into a coalition, government. This did not happen, this party lost its credibility. And it wasn't even necessary... Because, as revealed by these talks, there have always been two parallel coalitions. And that's the third most important thing we found was that there was an official coalition at the negotiating table on the coalition board and in various other formats, but that in fact... Reading these negotiations makes it clear that the real decisions have been made elsewhere. And this close cooperation, coordination, political market... That is why voters have been confused because the question arises: ‘Who can be trusted, and do I have anything to vote for?’ And even more, the heads of society are confused with the puzzle votes, the "lost" Members, the broken voting panels and the like... Please, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U149	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection. So, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U150	If there were such an opportunity, then I think we could gain even more added value if these negotiations were published in real, full terms. That would be the only dry balance. If the commission were able to do so, then there would be an opportunity for the public to see their heroes. But I think the public would certainly like to hear other talks as well. For example, talks at a hotel (probably close to Dome Square) where discussions were held about what to do with the Credit Institutions Act, or talks about the rule in the Health Care Financing Act that priority funding should be directed at public and municipal hospitals rather than private... Perhaps also the negotiations resulting from the privatisation of both the Gulbene and the Prize Hospital followed by the appointment of a specific person to the post of adviser at the Ministry of Health. And also the discussion between Mr Lembergs and Mr. Augulis after the arrest of the head of the “Latvian Railways” subsidiary. There are many examples. I think there could be a number of committees of inquiry here. But I think that hope is that the recent case that the President of Latvia gave a second-reading amendment to the law “On Judicial Power”... This illustrates that even among judges there are differences of opinion. The Council for the Judiciary clearly marks a meeting between different ages, which reflects the change of generations in thinking and understanding what democracy and its own free state really mean. Although there was an effort, to say it, to return these rules in the past on the powers of court presidents, the maximum, for two terms, it was corrected, however, thanks to the work and desire of the judiciary system. On the way. This year - the centenary of Latvia - will Latvia mark a new age in Latvian politics and state administration? Here, here, there will be an opportunity that can be used or, on the contrary! - not to use those Latvian citizens who will evaluate and select the future shapers of a hundred future country for the next Saeima. It will be an opportunity for everyone who doesn't care...
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U151	Mr. Smilten, you're out of time!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U152	... anyone who decides not to join the silenced majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U153	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky. ( Intercretion: “Ilmar speaks, Ainar prepares! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U154	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I agree with all the criticisms that have been expressed about the work of this committee. I'm not going to repeat it because, with that tumult, I have to vote against Silver on many occasions... I did it, but I have exhausted this negative quota. I will touch on two Commission conclusions that may have been touched by the past, but I think they deserve more attention. And it is a thread to the question: does the 12th Saeima, that is, we continue to work with the so-called oligarchs, or does the Members of the Saeima correct theft of the state? ( That was the name of the commission - about theft of their state - which was difficult to explain.) Two episodes. One called for by the Commission is attempts to influence the appointment and elimination of high-level officials. And the other is the coalition council that has already been mentioned. I would like to refer to two directives on "Ride Talks" - two authentic texts. The first one is Zatler. To be more polite, there was a call for Zatlers to... Let's say let's waste it. And the second is Raimonds Vējonis as candidate for the post of President of Latvia. In fact, these two directives were implemented. There were various factors. But if we remember the 11th Saeima, it seems fair and just: Zatler will be the Speaker of the Saeima. How to drop Solvita Āboltiņa through the needle. But this cannot happen without cooperation with the opposition - without an agreement - between the "Legislative Coalition" (as it was then called) and the opposition, led by the same oligarchs. 12th Saeima. Yes, Raimonds Vejonis becomes President of State. And there is also this cooperation: those who still give the impression that they have stood and fallen for Egyl Levite voted for the Vējonis. And they are members of coalition parties. But okay. Let it remain memoirs! In any case, it was already marked by the vote that it was 'yes' or 'no' to the style of "Rīdzene" negotiations. The Coalition Council is more topical in this Saeima. What, then, is the Coalition Council? All the ruling elite - the Saeima, Prime Minister, party leaders - sit at one table with Aivars Lembergs, specifically called the oligarch. What are they doing? Part of national taxpayers' money. And now imagine, one commission... What is required? Will he name Lemberg as a national grabber, a thief, or a legal thief? The Western formal logic simply does not understand this, because in that case, the whole coalition should also be recognised as legal thieves. I am not opposed to the Coalition Council in substance. It is clear that government parties need to consult, coordinate and coordinate their policies on crucial issues, even on budgetary issues. But it must at least be set in the Saeima's roll of order. What is the Coalition Council today in this case? The cleaning, legalization of the dirty “Ride” conversations. It is not a legitimate formation, because there are not only Members or perhaps representatives of the government, but also, of course, influential and, of course, talented men who outperform members of the Saeima in their thinking and forward-looking thinking. As a result, all coalition parties have cooperated directly or indirectly with oligarchs. I too, if I submitted to the decisions of the Coalition Council or to the discipline of the political group, said: "I already wanted to, but, well, that decision... “ Collective irresponsibleness. Everything, everything can be written off for collective irresponsibleness! One good piece of work can practically be drawn from this report, with the exception of all the symbolic votes and ethical condemnations - to manage... to arrange this coalition council so that it would be appropriate, if not for the Constitution, at least for the rule of the Saeima. Here it will be one good job. That's it! What are you gonna do? This will have to be done! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U155	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky. ( Interface: “One Latkovsky spoke well! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U156	Colleagues! I put the final report of the investigating commission, because I am interested in seeing the name of one former very influential, very cashy person. Divorce, I didn't! Those who followed the work of the investigation commission had an opportunity to see how influential men, such as Lembergs, Šlesers, Šķele, and rank less influential people - mediators, second role player. But one very influential person who appears in the "oligarch negotiations" and, by the way, in such light that this is very important for the evaluation of the Saeima, parliament, work, it does not appear there. Eight years ago, in January 2010, Shleser had a meeting with Valery Karginas. Valerijs Kargins had come to complain that now banking supervision in Latvia has ended in strict, turning screws, and Dombrovskis' government does not allow to live at all. Those who remember remember well remember that both he and Viktor Krasovickis had left in the bank 36 million - the subordinated capital. It had to pay interest at a time when families who had taken credit there lost their apartments, housing, were forced to work outside Latvia in order to pay credits in some way. They received a total of more than 12 million lats. And now I'm going to quote a little bit from what can be found in public. So Kargin: “In the Saeima [the Saeima] they always want to pull through it so that we can fuck with Victor [imaginary Krasovickis]! And now, in the memorandum signed with the International Monetary Fund, there is a point that the government should turn to Parliament to subtract former shareholders from subordinated capital, so to withdraw our income!' What's Shlesser? Shleser, of course, promises in that conversation... And it's interesting, of course, that, although Shleser is not in Parliament, somehow there for a few years, three or four, it's all being puzzled forward and backwards, and the Credit Institutions' law can't always make the right changes. It is only four years later that such amendments are made. I have a question for you now. What do you think - why didn't Inguna Silver look at this episode in this commission? Why did Valery Kargins not be invited, though, with God’s protection, such impressive aces as Lemberg, Shleser, and Sculptile had to come to the Commission of Inquiry and perhaps even be justified in answering some questions? I have this question for you. Who knows the answer? ( Internouncing call.) I really did not claim it, but some of the evil tongues say that maybe it is due to the fact that Inguna Silverba was the vice-president of “Parex banka”. ( The box “Inguna? ”) ) These are just a few bad tongues. The answer is for Inguna Silver himself. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U157	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U158	Hello, brothers and sisters, third time! I have a completely different view of all these oligarchs. I completely agree that from all this commission, as originally intended, it is - zero, comma... Get out of here! And I wouldn't say that really oligarchs are those who steal. Yeah... ( Interface: “Lemberg! ” ) Shleser and Sphinx are too, yes... Aivars Lembergs... I would rather ask the question: perhaps those who organise all the time have to stop this trial, which is happening in connection with Aivars Lembergs? Which are the ones who hold this trial? ( Independence: “On the report! This is not about the report!” ) In my opinion, theft of an irresistible state, the cause of corruption, has long been the cause of Awakening. Today, the curtain for those events that occurred in the days of Awake! And what happens shows that our dear, nice Awakening scenario has come - where? ( Internouncing call.) It's about stealing. He has been created in Moscow - the CPC CC-supervised KGB corridors. And similarly realised in almost the entire territory of the USSR. The foundations of our country are based on a scenario developed by the CPK and the KGB corridors, dear friends! In fact, then began theft of our country, the privatisation. And it all happened very legitimately, dear friends! In fact, the entire economy of our time was destroyed. “ That’s right, ” he said. Bravo!’ ) In my opinion, theft of the state is organised and covered by those who really have enough force if they manipulated the entire FTA society - 2.5 million people. Those who took over the KGB's network of agents. And with this... Listen to my opinion! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t!” ) And the network of these agents ensured our accession to NATO and to the European Union. In fact, this network of agents provided the Awakening events. What is happening shows that there is a state abductment under the cover of the network of former KGB agents and this network controls not only state absconding, but also the media and, in many cases, political parties. This is demonstrated by facts. And it was these forces, for which accession to the European Union and NATO was carried out, that drew attention to what happened in Latvia during the Awakening. That is why this corruption could not be combated. Although the last one I have observed and what is happening to us now shows that those forces outside Latvia do not like something. Still, they have considered opening their eyes. Okay, you organised accession to the European Union that time, we'll turn your eyes to you now... Last and foremost. If we really want to end theft of the state in Latvia, the economy and corruption, then the system must be changed, not witch hunting. We'll be hunting witches here for centuries. First and foremost, it is necessary for local authorities and public officials to be motivated to develop the national economy and prosperity, as the current system promotes corruption and bribery. There must be clear state functions and a clear number of officials who realise it if we want to fight... and arrange your country. There must be long-term national development goals, a strategy, an action programme if we want to stop theft. The main objective of the Action Programme should be economic growth, not robbery, as is currently the case. The purchasing power of the population, which promotes entrepreneurship, the well-being of the population and more turnover for the economy, must be raised and, as a result, higher tax revenues must be increased. Next. If we want to combat corruption, it is essential for political parties to be financed by the state. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) And if we want to combat corruption and put an end to this grey net, which is manipulating us, security authorities need to be reorganised. They still live in Soviet times. I will send you all my proposals. I have a great request not to be apathetic, with high ph levels, but feel that we can do something!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U159	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U160	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, You know, listening to this debate, I even find a valueless complex in the sense that I have not been mentioned in those negotiations. Or maybe I was, but I don't know about it. Pure or envy. But if you are serious, I would like to congratulate Mrs Silvera on her role as chairman of the Commission and those who really wanted to carry out his duties in good faith. The work of the Commission was carried out by people who had not so far experienced this type of activity. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the initiator for the establishment of this commission was the coalition, the ruling coalition, which has been in power for a long time. As the Chairman of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission refused remuneration, I think it would be reasonable if Ainars Latkovskis, Chairman of the Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention Commission, Alexejs Loskutovs, Chairman of the Sub-Committee, Gaidis Berzins, and Solvita Āboltiņa, Chairman of the Legal Commission, then the Chairman of the National Security Commission, had given up his salary and presented it to Inguna Silvera, because all the aforementioned institutions are under the supervision of these responsible commissions - the Prosecutor General's Office, KNAB, Security Police, SAB, State Police. Why are we discussing today what has or has not been done by an investigative commission? The question is, what has the coalition done with its ministers? Why have we not coped with our responsibilities? Too much emphasis is placed on, and as absolute truth is perceived, what is published. I well remember the meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, where the new head of KNAB mentioned that there is no evidence that these negotiations are authentic. Today, as the absolute truth is being taught, it is absolutely authentic. It's an absolute lie! Go on. Mr Lejonis spoke today about populism in his foreign policy debate. In my opinion, the largest group in our Parliament dealing with a lot of populism is the Unity Group. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr. Zaķis: “The biggest thing is SAVE!” ) The question is, why was Parliament dismissed when Zatler made his decision? The main argument is that Members do not vote for shaking at Shleser. Okay. Not to mention how a parliamentary sitting was convened - Members did not know... Next. The position of the Prosecutor General was not approved, and the candidate for the position of a judge of the Supreme Court, Mr Jedina, was not approved. Wait, has anyone decided, like I will vote in one or the other, or in the third case? You know, I'm a little interested in what I've been talking about and where. Very well, if we know what we're talking about in Moscow, what we're talking about in Washington. The question is, what do we do here, and what do we support? And do we defend the interests of our country or do we not defend it? I will return to the vote. You mentioned here that Mrs Silver was mentioned in the negotiations. Sorry as far as I know, then there was information that Moscow and Washington... strangely, but at the same time supported Mr Zatler for his reelection. What is it - who was the “Cream’s hand” here, who supported and called for a vote in favour of Zatler? Next. Then, too, the rumors of the clown... And there was such a remarkable coincidence: on 16 May Andris Bērziņš announced that he would stand as President, and the next day criminal proceedings were initiated... Then the information came to light: if the House still votes... That - even after the decision to dismiss the parliament... If, however, Parliament votes in favour of Mr Zatler as President, he can also revoke his decision. I just don't know if it's... Whether it is true or not - it is hard to say. But, colleagues, let us congratulate those who have worked in this commission and think about our place and our role in Parliament and in the country as a whole! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U161	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U162	Colleagues! All the time around this oligarch case reminds me of anecdotes about the Soviet era. ( Milestones.) It was about the Soviet era when so-called perestroika - openness, rearrangement. And this atmosphere is the convention of the ruling party. A Member who has believed all of this, goes to the bar and begins to say: “Where is the sausage? Where is the butter left?’ All of us don't like it, and they're, of course, getting him out of the podium. In time, a second Member, his colleague, is on the table and demands that everyone: "I only have one question: where is Anton left?" That's about that kind of style... If we look at this investigation, it is, of course, important to find out where the sausage remained, that is, what it really was about theft of that country. But I think it's even more important to find out where Anton remains. That is, why such a country was possible at all, taking into account all the circumstances that we know at the moment. The President of the Commission made a bold statement that in Latvia, all the powers of the state have been involved in theft of the state since the crusaders. As I understand it, there is power. I think that one of the assurances that this is true is very significant: the existing OIC sphere, whose years have been covered by power, and only thanks to journalists who have shown evidence (inter-speaks.) fraud, this issue was raised. Do you know how much society, all of us, have paid extra as part of this scene? More than a billion euros! According to the calculations by the Ministry of Economics, it has provided the European Commission with a figure that we will still have to pay if it continues, of EUR 3.6 billion. So we're not even on the side with this story. We're not even on the side! There are still billions and billions that will have to be paid if it is allowed to continue. This is theft of a state, compared to which the oligarchy's conversations look like an ally of little guys. Therefore, colleagues, I believe that this committee's report, the conclusion of this committee's work, is not an end. This is just the beginning of the whole process, which should continue. Because one case was to clarify the specific circumstances of one particular possible country theft, but more generally, it would be more important to put the system in order so that such things would not be allowed in the future. I therefore very much hope that those media that have been actively trying to initiate and investigate this one particular situation will be equally active so that this process does not stop halfway through, and will be equally active in order to find out why such a country was possible, responsible for it, and what changes should be made so that nothing in the future could be allowed. If this is not the case, then this whole show, which has been in oligarchs' affairs, will have proved to have been not abducting the country, but abducting the wrong. Unfortunately, if we look at what is happening now, there is reason to believe that this may have been the case... The moment of the truth will be in the future, and how the litmus paper will be the way forward for the OIC. For, unlike the oligarchus case, it will not be simply an empty talk about what has been said, but about concrete facts and concrete documents that will be able to prove this picture and make sure that illegal decisions that are not in the public interest have been implemented and taken for years. I very much hope that this will not be another case where it can be said that in this country “one law - one justice for all” does not apply to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U163	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U164	So on behalf of the head of this troop commission, I heard that the state of Latvia had been stolen by crucifixes and it had happened at a cosmic level. Very, very, very precise observation. Good job! You worked for six months until you understood that. Very good! I believe that this final report is completely valueless and worth zero. This final report does not contain any words, any names, nor any political or moral responsibility. This parliamentary investigation commission, like the previous one, led by Veiko Spolitis, has degraded the status of the parliamentary investigation commission as such. You have spent 10 000 euros on your consultants who, in my opinion, have all been or are still in a property relationship with the accused of serious crimes, Aivars Lembergs. Among them was Aldis Alliks, who was a commission consultant and received EUR 1000 per month. This includes Aivars Borovkovs. Whether he had some payment, I don't know, but I know that in 1991 he bought shares from Aivars Lembergs, as he himself recognised in the same commission. And you also have Aria Meikališa, which... In my opinion, the husband of Maicalsh's daughter is Lemberg's lawyer. Something like that little tie. Mrs. Silver! All these things have long been clear to the public. It's clear to the public what Andris Šķele is, it's long been clear to the public what Šleser is, it's long been clear to the public what Lembergs is. The best thing that has happened is that now society has understood what silver and Shitz are! ( Interface: “And the neighbor! ” ) The public has long understood who was the person flying to Moscow and said: “It’s not me!” Mrs. Silver! Society is not as stupid as you think! That's my conviction! You have truncated 10 thousand euros, which I think you should return to the state budget... Just like Doing Spolitis... about what you did... failure to carry out the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. It is clear to the public what the Prosecutor General Kalnmeier is doing. It is clear to the public what Mr Strelčenok did when he was still KNAB. It is clear to the public! Mrs. Silver! In this commission you protected these three persons for six months as the mother of your children. I'd like some more time. And the objections? You're not?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U165	Are Members opposed to merging the two times of the debate? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U166	You protected your... those people who came and gave testimony, - Lemberg, Squeeze, Shlesser. I came to these sittings, but you did not allow me to ask them any questions. You have always voted, with a four-vote majority, to make it as little as possible... and that no unpleasant question should be posed to these three named people. And that's not lying! You held closed sittings. You even voted to expel me from that commission because I'm interfering with you to work. That's all you did for half a year. You're crazy! You destroyed your party to be the head of this commission. You have destroyed the established party “From the Heart to Latvia”! You don't have a party anymore! You don't have a group anymore! You've destroyed your political career! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūrris: ‘Debating the final report!’ ) I think that perhaps we will see you soon as part of “Latvijas Gas”. Maybe! I don't know. You're not going anywhere, you've been working hard! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “Artus, stop!” ) But the question is, Mrs Silver, was it worth it? Was it really worth it? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūrris: “Do not touch personal people!” ) Three years ago, you accepted Orthodoxy to get Russian voices. I think so. Didn't that happen, Mrs. Silver? ( Interface: ‘ Talk about the report, not the persons! ’ ) Now you will no longer need them, because your political career is over. What I want to say is that there is no need to treat society as a fool. Of course, it can be said that it is guilty, it is guilty, it is guilty... This case is clear. You've been in all the media every day for six months. Okay. Okay! The end result is that it is not I who degraded the Saeima's prestige with my opinions or speeches from the tribunal, but such an absolutely dilethal way of leadership as you, Mrs Silverba, or Spolitis, led the parliamentary commission. These people are ruining the prestige of the Saeima! That's what you've done. In principle, 10 points. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Kalnozol: “Look in the mirror!” ) Consequently, with these loud words about Mrs Silver having lost her political career with her "golden voice" - Shicu - I would like to end today's sitting. (Laughter) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U167	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U168	Good afternoon, colleagues! First, Hosam Abu Mary used medical terminology. I would also like to use it. You know, for me, that commission, looking from outside, reminded me of a medical consilium when there is a patient, that is, all those processes, and there are doctors who now have to agree on some kind of joint action. And one says, “Let’s treat electric shock!” The other says, “No, with the clemism will be better!” The third offers: “May we have a massage? ” Fourth: “No, cold water baths!” As a result, the patient simply dies, and something similar has happened here. But when it comes to the subject that the Commission was investigating. As a man who has followed the press publications in Latvia at different times, it all looked like such an old, heated soup. Because the portal is enough in October 2011. com had published four long articles with the same “oligarch negotiations”. One to one. It was a time when Normunds Vilniss KNAB was no longer there, Strelčenok was no longer the performer of the place, in my opinion, Mrs. Strike was at the time. Then, this portal published all these conversations, all that Shleser talked about the Freeport, the “Daily”, the sharing of influence and everything else. At that time, I read these conversations and thought: well, finally, one sitting. But it was time, and it didn't sit down. I specifically contacted Mr Lapsas today to ask if, in 2011, when the material came out of an active, not terminated, criminal case, as it is now - in the drawer - a security authority or KNAB, was the prosecutor's office even interested in how the data came to him? He said, “No!” Well, then, obviously, there's no logic for all of this. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “No elections!” ) There was no election ( Dep. J.Adamson: Elections! ), but was an obligation. Perhaps this obligation was less now. Last month, I read an interview of the Prosecutor of the Division of Investigation of Specially Important Matters of the Office of the Prosecutor General Alda Pundura in one magazine. He is currently a lawyer, he no longer has to think about what the Prosecutor General will say about him. He is asked exactly about the "oligarch case". He says: “99 percent of cases can be investigated and brought to court if everything is done professionally. ‘ The Oligarhu case could be sent to court if everything had been done qualitatively.’ In fact, KNAB did not bring the case to the end because of his arrogance and presumptuousness. Why blame Mount Leah for not collecting all the evidence? The strange woman in her arrogance thought that prosecutors were the same criminals as the ones they investigated and did not give prosecutors the case materials. The prosecutor should help the investigation, but he cannot, because he hides documents from him. And now it is no longer a secret that they really have chosen: whatever they want, they give it, they don't want it, they don't give it. The present Riga City Council Member has lied in the interviews that they have selected evidence together with the prosecutor. In the public prosecutor’s office, people were outrageous: How can it lie?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, I have not stood there, of course, but it can also be read in Mr Judine's individual conclusions, which are attached to this investigation's conclusion, that KNAB has not been at the heights of tasks. And, you know, you don't have to wait long for the reaction. There's already a record on Twitter that Juta Strike has just been on TV 24 live and has already managed to say that Judine doesn't understand anything, he's incompetent because he has not investigated any crime. ( Interface: “There can’t be! ”) ) That's it!
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U169	The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U170	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, To save time, I will try not to talk about what previous speakers have already said. I will try to say what I personally thought was very important. The result of the work of this committee would be much more effective and more serious if the matter had been looked at from a different angle and perhaps a little bit more than the next year, because it's not all started with the "Rīdzene" negotiations. In this context, I would like to say that the grabbing of the press can be said if it affects citizens and society... On the indecision of the prosecutor's office - there you already said everything... all their views. On working within the law. I want to stop by this wording. The mass media reads: “I obey the laws!” Law! Who drives and regulates all the development, future progress and progress of our society? Adopted national laws. And to be able to assess... In fact, I think it's a minus: in the report I found nowhere, how was it possible to talk about things in a closed room, which has microphones, where they are recorded. In time, the theatre has begun. In this connection, I would like to say that everything starts with the decision made by each official: "I want to make progress in that or another area!" It doesn't matter where! ‘ I want to accept fairly a law that is designed for the benefit of the people, which supports the development of the people and the state. I want to do this honestly... !” Let us perhaps start with this category first in every Member! I'm about to finish... “I will defend the interests of the people of the country and prevent selfish temptations.” Unfortunately, this has happened and is happening, and it has not come to an end. This is the greatest disaster! Why? Because the laws have not been changed! Everything happened legally, starting with the 7th Saeima, when a Prime Minister suddenly appeared, who was not in any political party... I didn't even have such a party... He led the country. But what is important? It's important... Who then led the Legal Commission all these years? ‘ The Road of Latvia, “New Time”, then the People’s Party and then the Unity. What has prevented you from reminding every day for seven years that the laws adopted have allowed this country to be stolen or grabbed, as you have now declared when you sit on the Commission? So what's the problem with you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, While we're in position, the only "knowledge" and the right-thinking... because those who understand nothing and are fools sit in opposition... As long as we have this relationship, we will not achieve anything. A colossal situation has developed - as in Africa, among animals. Who then eats that rich plunder? First of all, a barve, which determines everything. And then the rest of it's left to eat, right? And in Latvia, I see it - I'm sorry, unfortunately it is! - that some are smashing the big capital, getting rich as civil servants. I have a question: why did Mr. Judine not prove by law how to put a bill of 29 million in nine years to work as an official? You don't worry anyone? I can't save that money personally. I'm not talking about Shape, it's talking about the market. There's a term, Mr. Judin, and I really have a big stone in your garden... You're educated - professor, doctor of law... You were the only person to say that the law adopted in 2009 led to this situation. This was accepted by the Commission. You were sitting there. You're sitting right now, too. You've been sitting here for seven years and not correcting anything! It is easy to say that those oligarchs arranged something there. It was arranged because the laws were arranged to do so. Please just one minute more. Is there a chance for me?
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U171	Do Members have objections if (Interfaces.) Mr Platoper brings together both times of debate? So, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U172	At one time, he told and taught to put the comma in order. Legal documents must correctly place comma and longitudinal characters, and spaces, and supplements. ‘ To be eligible, you must not be punished!’ “Let’s not make excuses, punish them!” Where did you put the comma? ‘ To be eligible, you must not be punished!’ And I think Latvian legislation unfortunately allows you to interpret these laws that you have created, and you do not object to everyday work. You don't mind! You're okay! It is easy to say that they are not doing something right there. But we have to tell you how... What is the law... and why they violate this law or obey, manipulate, do not do or understand... What do I want to say to Mrs. Silver? ( Internouncing call.) I want to say one thing: I have the worst memories of the work of the Saeima in 2008, when, unfortunately, many things were also handled by the “Fatherland and Freedom”, which... We asked... Yeah, I'll say, we asked Mrs. Silver... I personally sent a request as a municipal official for bad things to happen in Ķekava. I'm sorry, honorable SAVE! You were here a lot. I pray: vote, don't let go! The Saeima passed the law, and those 11 Members... Today, on behalf of those who have been fired, I welcome you. That made us illegal by the Saeima. Is the law... I'll tell you right now... Mareks Seglin, yeah. He (Military: “What has to do with silver?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) objected to it? He didn't mind! And that's why, as long as we don't arrange... Yes, thank you. Without the rules, the country will continue to be stolen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U173	Mr Platoper, your debate is over. The debate is over. I closed the debate. (Applause) Mrs. Silver! On behalf of the parliamentary committee of inquiry... Is that so? So Mrs Silver does not want to explain or add anything. Thus, the final report of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the signs of state theft and the quality of pre-trial investigations in criminal proceedings No 16870000911 should be considered. Dear colleagues, With regard to answering Members' questions today, I have to inform you that the Minister for Economic Affairs, who originally planned to arrive at 17.00 to reply, has announced that he will not be able to come (Internal.) at this time, because his pre-planned timetable does not allow us to take part in the meeting today, and asks for the replies to be postponed to the questions submitted. This applies to all the issues that we are looking at today. In connection with the question of Member Zariņa, Jakikov, Lazareva, Arthur Rubika and Potapkinas, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Asheraden, about restrictions on the rights of protected users to exploit electricity market opportunities. The written replies received do not satisfy the applicants, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions on this question. Member of the Minister of Health of Zarina, Morozova, Ribakova, Cilevičs and Potapkin “On the implementation of the e-health project and its compliance with basic basic requirements”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. Mr Kučinska informs that he cannot attend the oral response because he is on mission in the Swiss Confederation. Therefore, today's replies to Members' questions will not take place and unanswered questions will be moved to the next time. New questions have also been put to Members. Members Lazareva, Zarins, Tretjaka, Tutin and Jakimavs have put forward the question “On the implementation of the oncology plan and the use of innovative targeted therapy”, which we give to the Prime Minister. Members Zarins, Adamsons, Tretjaka, Zuvėvs and Niconovs submitted a question “On possible illegal construction in the territory of Pāvilosta parish”. The name of the question to the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U174	Colleagues, we found interesting things. There was a meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission on the ship-house epic. Do you know? It turns out, indeed, that the competent authorities have confirmed that it is a watercraft. It's not a ship, but it's a watercraft. There is no doubt that it can be in a floating position, but has not yet been put into service, so it cannot be launched into the sea. We want to clarify the Prime Minister's actions in all this story, because it turns out that the ship-house is standing on the land of the country. But in order to be able to stand on the country's land, a government decision had to be made that it could stand there. We want to find out how it is then - what the Prime Minister has done on this issue - and to help him understand what needs to be done if he does not understand how to solve this issue in the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U175	The question is referred to the Prime Minister for a reply. Members Zarins, Adamsons, Tretjaka, Zujevs and Niconovs submitted a question about the provision of the information system necessary for the implementation of the conditions for receiving services provided by the Health Care Financing Act. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U176	Recently, colleagues, we have passed the Health Care Financing Act here in the Saeima, which, as you know, states that depending on which social group the potential customer belongs to, namely whether he has paid taxes or not, it depends on the specific characteristics of how available and at what cost health services will be. Then we want to clarify how it will be implemented. In principle, it is important before the patient is given a service, to identify what is actually due to him, what is not due, and to what conditions. But since we know that e-health is one major disaster, we want to know at an early stage whether the Prime Minister understands how this problem will be addressed. Because, as it seems, e-health will not be the information system that will be able to provide it.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U177	We refer the question to the Health Minister's executive, Maris Kučinskis. Members Zarins, Tutins, Arthur Rubiks, Mirskis and Ivan Klementjevs submitted the question “On e-health implementation and compliance”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U178	Talking about what happens to e-health, how bad it is, does not work... But there is good reason to fear that it is created artificially, that is, because the next 10 million e-health is planned, and so that they can be taken up as soon as possible before the elections, it is necessary to have an e-health in order to maintain the uncertainty that is actually about e-health, and without carrying out a functional comprehensive analysis, to move quickly on to the current distribution of money, because you see there are current problems. And so that this money can be distributed quickly, until the elections, and those who need it, all this debate is maintained. To understand how it really is, whether the government and the relevant institutions in general have an understanding of what to do with e-health and how money should be spent in the future, there are these Members' questions.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U179	We refer the question to the Health Minister's executive, Maris Kučinskis. Please call me! Please register the Members! Name of the member of the Saeima Secretary to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U180	Colleagues! Not registered at the moment: Aija Barča, Andris Berzins, Ivars Laisvers, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Kžads, Armands Krauze, Inese Laizāne... Yes. Thank you. Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ainārs Mežulis, Imants Krādnieks, Edgars Putra, Jānis Trupovnieks, Mihails Zemļinskis... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2018-01-25-PT12-461-U181	Thank you. Interruption until February 1, this year at 9 a.m.
