ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the sitting is resumed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. We proceed to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the decree of Chief of State Józef Piłsudski on the provisional statute of the Palestry of the Polish State. I would like to warmly welcome Mr Rafał Dębowski, present at the meeting of the Secretary-General of the Bar Council... [[Applause]] ...welcome very cordially and other representatives of the Supreme Bar Council. I remind you... Give it up for our guests. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 1018 and the committee's report In print No 1018 S. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen. There are guests in the O.R. We're going to make a solemn resolution. Quiet, please. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u2	Mrs. Marshal! Dear guests! Counsellors! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present a draft resolution which was adopted unanimously at the committee meeting. If I can get on with it, I'll read it. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 14 December on the 100th anniversary of the decree of the Governor of the State of Józef Piłsudski concerning the provisional statute of the Palestry of the Polish State. On 24 December 1918, Mr Józef Piłsudski issued a decree on the provisional statute of the Polish State Palestry. This outstanding creator of the reborn Polish statehood, who for many years of his life was persecuted and convicted of independence activities, perfectly understood the role of free and independent attorney defending man in confrontation with the powerful power of the state. The Statute was a modern regulation establishing a two-step barrister's self-government, with lawyers' councils, the Supreme Bar Council and its own disciplinary courts, guaranteeing freedom of expression in the pursuit of the profession by a lawyer and the protection of professional secrecy. He said that a lawyer should be a lawyer of law and righteousness. These solutions were conducive to the role of attorneys and defenders, but also to a high level of public activity. The lawyers made a huge contribution to the unification and codification of the law of the Second Republic, which inherited several different legal systems after the partitions. They created Polish judiciary, administration, developed law school as university lecturers and created law as Members and Senators. The first Minister of Justice, appointed by the Regency Council, was adw. Stanisław Bukowecki, who was the President of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland from 1919 to 1939. The lawyers were the first presidents of the Supreme Court in the years 1922-1939. Adw. Jan Kanty Steczkowski and adw. Jan Kucharzewski became prime ministers of the government. Lawyers of the Second Republic engaged in politics, understanding it as a real influence on the shape of Polish legislation and public service. Members of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and Senators were among others adw. Wojciech Trąmpczyński (Marshal of the Legislative Seym and Marshal of the Senate), adv. Wacław Makowski (Marshal of the Sejm), adv. Zbigniew Stypułkowski and adw. Stanisław Car (Marshal of the Sejm). The lawyers were the majority of the members of the Codification Commission, the initiator of which was Krakow's Member of Attorney General. Zygmunt Marek. Lawyers paid a great deal of blood during World War II, more than half of them lost their lives, including more than 90% of them. attorneys of the Warsaw Chamber died during the Warsaw Uprising. They acted in conspiracy in various forms, including participation in the authorities of the Government of the Republic of Poland in exile. The first government delegation to the country was the pre-war president of Poznań, adv. Cyril Rataiski, delegates were also adw. Stefan Korbonski and adv. Adam Bień (then the judge). Adw. Władysław Raczkiewicz became President of the Republic of Poland in exile, adv. Stanisław Szurlej served as chief military prosecutor and head of the Polish military judiciary. After World War II, lawyers continued their mission under totalitarian conditions. They defended courageously in the political processes of the participants in the events of 1956, 1968, 1970, 1976 and after the declaration of martial law in 1981. They did so, regardless of the consequences, sometimes excluding the right to pursue their profession. Excellent speeches have been made in history, counsellor. Stanisław Hejmowski and others, especially from the period of martial law. They also acted in the role of victim's attorneys and their families, as well as in the most notorious trial against the murderers of Fr. George Popieluszko. After the collapse of the communist system, they actively joined in building a democratic rule of law, holding the position of Prime Minister of the Government. . adw. Jan Olszewski and acting as parliamentarians and founders of various associations and foundations. Adw. Marek Antoni Nowicki became a member of the European Commission on Human Rights, which was established next to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which worked at the Council of Europe, to which we joined on 26 November 1991. Lawyers have testified with their resumes that they remain faithful to their calling to help not only people but also the Homeland, as spokespersons of law and righteousness, as was the decree of the Governor of the State. The Senate wishes to celebrate this act and its faithful lawyers by adopting this resolution in the century of its signing by Józef Piłsudski. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much, Senator.]] Thank you very much. [[At present, the senators...]] If I may, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to add two more words. [[Yes, of course. Please.]] First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues, who have signed the draft resolution in such a way. Of course, because of the pace at which we operate, I didn't get to everyone, but I have to say that no one said no and everyone was happy to sign. But a lot of people didn't sign up. Senator Zientarski and Senator Pociej wanted to sign their signatures too, unfortunately we missed them, but they are also, as it were, as I hope, many, many others that I had not yet reached. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, and I would remind you that the applicants have authorised them to represent Senator Zbigniew Cichonia. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u4	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to thank you very much, Senator, because I think this resolution is very accurate and very correct. I wish I'd had a chance to sign her project, just like Mr. Counselor Zientarski and Mr. Pociej. My question is this. Well, as we know, Poland was created from 3 partitions, from 3 different administrative and legal systems. Tell me, because I don't know: did the decree determine the way of acting of the barrister's government? I'm talking about the decree of the head of state. And did he specify the procedure for entering the profession of lawyer? Did it contain any indications, or was it merely limited to such, I would say, an external form of taking into account the fact that lawyers have a need to create their professional self-government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u5	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u6	Mr. Senator, the decree actually covered the entire resurrected Poland, which, I remind you, inherited not even three legal systems, we had, unfortunately, 3 conquerors, but 5 legal systems, because there was also Hungarian and French law, the Napoleon Code, which was in force at the site of the former Russian occupation. Therefore, my mention of the work of lawyers in the Polish Codification Commission, which was founded on the initiative of Krakow's lawyer Zygmunt Mark. As regards the grounds for inclusion in the list of lawyers, they were specified, specified. Of course, university graduation was required. It's a law degree. As you know, there was inheritance even after the possessive system, so that various kinds of universities were completed by Polish lawyers at that time. Very often it was Berlin or Leipzig when it comes to German procurement. When it comes to Russian admission, it was often Petersburg, and when it comes to Austrian admission, then of course Lviv, Vienna and the Jagiellonian University. So that these requirements were specified. Of course, not only did they require the completion of their studies, but they also required the passing of the judge's exam. Such a practice existed for a very long time. I'm from this generation, when the judge's application had to be completed first, then a three-year attorney's application, and only then, after these two exams, became an attorney. So that the lawyer was much better prepared for the profession than the judge, which is worth mentioning.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u7	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Senator of the rapporteur? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And I'll ask Senator Piotr Ziientarski to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Counsellors, Representatives of the Supreme Bar Council! I had the opportunity, the honor, like many senators, to work on a draft resolution in the Legislative Commission, where a special team was set up. Also Senator Shark, of course, the main applicant, Senator Quiet... We have come to a consensus, as the lawyers have, and we have adopted without problems the uniform text of the draft resolution, which is the subject of today's presentation. We attended the ceremony at the Royal Castle on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the bar. This decree of the chief of state was a barrister... I rightly emphasized in the resolution that the head of state, Józef Piłsudski, perfectly understood the role of a free and independent lawyer defending man in confrontation with the powerful power of the state. The Bar Statute refers to the fact that a lawyer should be a lawyer of law and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a little more about what has been signalled here because of the substance of this proposed resolution. On the attitude of lawyers after World War II. We've witnessed... Senator Cichoń and I have a similar barrister's way, we're from the same yearbook. Getting to a Lawyer's Profession It was actually like that, you could say, crowning a law career widely understood, because it was only after passing a judge's exam that you could get into an attorney's application. You had to have a 3-year application completed with a bar exam and then you could sign in, you could get an entry... After the judge's exam, the examination could be completed in the courtroom. I've done that, but it's been the last year. At that time it was still a State Economic Arbitration, and it was possible to obtain the title of legal counsel, but even being included on the list of legal counsels, it was necessary to have a three-year attorney's application completed with a bar exam. I will not discuss the rightness of the changes, because that is not the point, but I will say that lawyers are always very well prepared for the profession. Many lawyers, including Senator Cichoń, I, too, defended in martial law, represented the Church in difficult times. And indeed we felt that we were representatives of people, the rights of the individual from being always the weakest in relation to the machine of the state. That's what a lawyer is for, so he can stand up bravely for the smallest one, no matter what the consequences. I would like to stress, because this is not in this resolution, although it is written that after the collapse of the communist system, lawyers actively joined in the construction of a democratic state, it is said about Jan Olszewski, the Prime Minister of the Government, rightfully, and... Marek Antoni Nowicki is also mentioned as a member of the European Commission on Human Rights. But I would like to refer to the present, because without the present, we cannot talk about the role of attorney in her century, in the whole of this period. As in this resolution, lawyers in non-governmental organisations, such as the Free Courts, are now defending the independence of the judiciary. Without an independent judiciary, there's no real lawyer, which is why they're bravely defending him. These are the positions of the Supreme Bar Board in relation to the National Judicial Council, the Supreme Council has taken important resolutions in relation to the non-constitutionality of this body, in relation to the formation of disciplinary chambers, the Disciplinary Chamber in the Supreme Court, which has, please, the state, also to recognise the case of lawyers. I'd like to remind you that in martial law, no one came up with the idea to create a special disciplinary chamber for lawyers, too. Something else was invented. A law was introduced that reduced the age of a member of the bar team to 70 years. Then a member of the team... This was about the Nowicki Force that's over 70 years old. In such a case, authorisation to operate an individual firm could only be obtained with the permission of the Minister of Justice. But no one, ladies and gentlemen, has come up with the idea of such a reckoning... It's not about disciplinary settlement, because the disciplinary courts have been and are still there, but it's about the power to appoint another body to recognize the case of lawyers. So that at present the role of lawyers is great, just as it was always great when the rule of law was threatened. I hope the lawyers are also in the next century. 'Cause we're on the verge of a new century. They will continue to write this beautiful card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u9	Thank you. Mr. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go. Is Senator Silence also speaking? Good. Please, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u10	Thank you very much! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! This is a very good draft resolution, because it resembles after 100 years, how the independent Polish state was created. Actually, every professional group. In particular in the case of public confidence professions Every important institution in the country, just around 2018, 2019, 2020 and so in these coming years, will be able to boast of an extraordinary achievement, extraordinary achievements, its important contribution to the reconstruction of the independent Polish state. I deliberately asked your patron, Senator Cichoń, about these legal systems. It's true that this system was actually very complicated. One of the greatest achievements of the builders of the Second Republic was that they were able to integrate the Polish state effectively and quickly. They integrated different administrative systems, different levels of economic development, different social issues and built a single Polish country. In those times it was a multinational but uniform Polish state. But I would also like to draw attention to another thing. In addition to the prominent parliamentarians, outstanding lawyers and prominent social activists who were cited by your senator, it is also worth recalling several other names of lawyers who had an extraordinary contribution to the reconstruction of the Polish state. And it is also worth noting that Marshal Józef Piłsudski was particularly attached to this professional group and spoke about it with special recognition, among others. because they were lawyers as Polish elite, cultural elite, social elite, in a sense also economic, in an extremely active way participated in the processes which led to the regaining of Polish independence by the state. I am thinking here not only of the year 1918, but also of the various political and social initiatives that preceded the events of November 1918. I would like to recall here, for example, Mr Józef Chaciński, a lawyer, a publicist, twice the President of the Labour Party, who was also a Member of the Sejm in the interwar period. I would like to recall the memory of Mr Mieczysław Engiel, a Member of the Vilnius Parliament, a well-known Catholic activist. I would also like to recall the memory of Professor Alfonso Parczewski, a lawyer, historian, a fighter for the Polishness of Western lands, a political and social activist, a Member of the Russian Duma, who gained parliamentary experience there, because such was the reality of Polish lands under partitions. The co-founder of the Constitutional Act drawn up in the framework of the Interim Council of State, Professor of the University of Warsaw, and then the rector of the University of Vilnius. Finally, I would like to recall the memory of patron Zygmunt Staniszewski, lawyer, politician, publicist, President of the Court of Appeal in 1917, who was Minister of Labour in Jan Kucharzewski's Government at the turn of 1917 and 1918. Another well-known lawyer, a lawyer, is Adolf Suligowski, professor at the University of Warsaw, member of the Council of State in 1917, co-initiator of the Association of Polish Cities, Member of the Legislative Sejm, author of the Polish 19th and 20th centuries legal bibliography. And such characters could, of course, be mentioned much more. But this shows really how the environment of Polish lawyers, Polish defenders, Polish lawyers felt co-responsible for the common good. The figures I called here represented various political camps, different world views, and yet they had one common goal: to build an independent, free, democratic Polish state. And that's why... It seems to me that we in these discussions today are too subject to different emotions and are losing sight of this common goal. And this common goal is the independent Republic, which this year celebrates the 100th anniversary of regaining independence after 123 years of captivity in 2018. And I think, at this particular time, it's worth to rise above divisions, beyond current politics, beyond exciting emotions, and using every situation to fight politically. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u11	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Marek Pak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech will be in a similar spirit to that of my predecessor, Senator Jackowski. Indeed, there is something very characteristic and unique in these elites, not only lawyers, but in general legal II of the Republic. They were actually very prominent people, patriots, and very often real people of the Renaissance. And this is where I would like to draw attention to 2 such people, sorry, it's kind of a pro domo sua statement, because they're my distant relatives. Stanisław Krygowski's lawyer from Cracow and his son, Władysław Krygowski. I am talking about them because they, besides being lawyers, have played a role in the development and popularization of areas which, as it seems, may not be directly related to the lawyer, but this is what demonstrates the level and momentum of these people. Namely Stanisław Krygowski was a real forerunner of Polish tathering and high mountain photography. To this day the film has been preserved, collections of absolutely unique, first in the history of photographs of the High Tatras. He was also the winner of many peaks, the highest in the Tatra Mountains, the author of the first crossings in the High Tatras on such peaks as the Monks and the Great Migushowiecka Summit. Those were really outstanding tavern achievements. This passion was taken over by his son, Władysław Krygowski, who in history signed up not as a lawyer, but more so. as a promoter of tathering, in general mountain tourism, author of books, guides, well, such real classics in this field. And this environment also has such merit that many of these people were involved in diarying and they are also true archivists of that era, of those times, very different events. I really encourage everyone to read the beletrytics that many of them have committed. These really are the sources and beautiful Polish language, and true, deep knowledge of these origins of reborn Poland, our homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Forgive me for taking the floor again, but briefly, because in my brief report and in this resolution, we had to ignore many people, but I think they should be worshiped. Namely, I would like to mention outstanding lawyers of martial law who have paid, as did the President of the General Bar Council Maciej Bednarkiewicz, their defences in political matters with deprivation of liberty. You remember the performances of a government spokesperson named Urban, who laughed at the fact that Counselor Bednarkiewicz was defending political affairs. I wonder where he got the funding to keep himself if he was doing these defenses free of charge. And our colleague Maciej Bednarkiewicz was deprived of his freedom. Similar repressions, although to a lesser extent may have affected colleagues of lawyers in Krakow, such as Mr Dyki, the later Minister of Justice, after 1989, and Mr Ostafil, who were suspended by the Minister of Justice in the law of the profession. We as lawyers at the time, on the basis of solidarity, consisted of having the means to maintain for themselves and for their families. I will also mention the glowing figure, one might say, the woman of the brave knight, the patron Maria Budzanowska, who was elected after 1980 on a wave of this freedom on the President of the Supreme Council of Lawyers, and then, at war, was forced by the authorities to resign under the threat that the authorities would make such restrictions and such moves against the lawyer, that the lawyer would practically cease to be an independent lawyer, even in the form of remains. I would also like to mention, moreover, my previous speaker mentioned this, the figure of the patron of the Force-Nowicki, for whom the communists even issued a special law limiting the age of the profession, in order to eliminate it. The law was passed for one person, it was a puriazum at that time; incidentally, for the master, or patron of our colleague, patron Piotr Andrzejewski, a long-term senator, whose state, many of you know. I would like to mention also those who are also the creators of a beautiful card, who deserved to defend the weak, persecuted by the communist system, our colleague, a long-standing senator, patron of Piesiewicz, who, after all, performed and played a powerful role in the trial of the oppressors of Father Popieluszko, even though he paid for the loss of his mother, because at the same time his mother was murdered. So that the huge prices were paid, the huge costs incurred by those lawyers who had courage at the time. Therefore, as a small supplement, I allowed myself to speak again. Once again, thank you all very much, and Mr. Counselor... Excuse me, Counselor... Already you, Senator Jackowski, I traded you for a patron because you performed so beautifully that I titled you and said thank you to the patron. Thank you, senator, for reminding me of this beautiful history card... [[The senator and the lawyer are...]] [[Counselor...]] ...some lawyers. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Żaryn.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a historian, I would also like to sign up for these voices commemorating outstanding Polish lawyers, because indeed this social group, the Polish part of the intellectual elite, the Polish part of intelligence deserves to be presented today on this occasion. Polish lawyers during the 100 years since the decree of the state chief were characterized by the fact that from generation to generation there were outstanding individuals among them, which, to some extent, can be said, committed the next generation to the challenges of their predecessors. Indeed, among the people who have already been mentioned here, who created Poland reborn, there were lawyers, there were lawyers. They had great merits when it came to creating the legal framework of the Second Republic of Poland, and then functioned as lawyers in the Second Republic and became a very important social, professional group, which immediately entered the structures of the Polish Underground State. And I would like to remind you of a story, a little known, which is important from the perspective of further teachings that generations of lawyers have passed on to the next generations of lawyers. Well, in 1939, as the Germans entered Warsaw and the lawyer, Warsaw mainly, she was invited, if you can say so in quotes, to meet with outstanding German lawyers at last before the war these environments knew each other. It was proposed to Polish lawyers that this pre-war institution should continue in the territory of the General Government, but on one condition. Namely, the condition was that German regulations concerning Jews had to be introduced to the Bar Council. If they cross them off the barrister's list, then the barrister can continue to function. As you know perfectly well, before the war there was a very strong dispute within the barrister's community between national lawyers and Jewish lawyers. By the turn of 1939 and 1940, this dispute, of course, in the face of the Germans' entry, was already out of date. Warsaw lawyers disagreed with this German occupier's proposal in quotes. They paid a very high price for it. They were immediately arrested and found in Pawiak. Some of them later found themselves in the spring of 1940 KL Auschwitz. Among those who were arrested was my grandfather's brother Leopold Żaryn, a very well-known attorney, evidently a national option before the war. He was one of many in this group who told the Germans about it, and of course he also paid for it by arresting them. Some of them died in Auschwitz for this attitude of an attorney. It can be said that this attitude of the Polish lawyer after the war has also become very visible in the face of confrontation with the second totalitarianism, i.e. communist totalitarianism. Of course, lawyers were also in communist prisons, and a considerable part of them came out after 1956 and at least what some could continue to practice their profession, among others. Witold Lis-Olszewski or Wacław Bitner. Once, as an employee of the Institute of National Remembrance, in 2002, I prepared an analysis on the surveillance of the barrister's environment after 1956. I'd like to tell you. In short, because, of course, it was a shocking reading. As the Security Service very soon after 1956 concluded that this was the environment, i.e. Lawyers' councils, in general, are the people who should be subject to comprehensive environmental control. It was one of the few such environments after 1956, next to the Catholic Church, alongside the clergy, which was included in the holistic and repressive process of surveillance. It was very interesting reading from different points of view. I'm just gonna talk about one thing. This is about multiplying from year to year in the 1960's, and then in the 1970's, enemies inside the district counsels, because it was according to the districts that this surveillance took place. Paralegal regulations for the Security Service were very interesting in this regard, which were intended to help select those negative environments in the bar. And of course, the first such environment were those who came out of prison after 1956, i.e. lawyers of origin, in quotes, national-oenerist. Of course, they weren't allowed to practice as a lawyer at all. That's an example. The name should also be given to Wiesław Chrzanowski, who, after getting out of prison several times in the 1960s, sought a lawyer to be a lawyer. The District Bar Council in Warsaw has always supported him in these efforts, and the Ministry of Justice has not given him this power three times. But, to make it interesting, already in the 1960s, on the list of those who were against the system, who were stuck inside the barrister's councils, outside the nationals and ONR-men in the Esbec nomenclature, they were e.g. Social Democrats Lawyers They were found in such a nomenclature, i.e. those who had no attachment to backward ideology, but did not have any attachment to the proper assessment of the current life of the Polish People's Republic. And in the third edition of the instructions it turned out that the enemies of the system were already Jewish lawyers. And in this way, please, in the 1960s and early 1970s, in the list of hostile environments, hostile from the point of view of the Polish People's Republic, there were the same environments, which in 1939 and 1940 were also included in the list of lawyers with whom, as the Germans said, there was nothing to talk about. This is a good lesson for understanding these two totalitarian systems. They used a different language, of course, because Communists in the 1960s did not put lawyers in prisons and concentration camps, while thinking about the lawyer's profession in the case of both totalitarianisms was very, very similar. Of course, it's a reminder at the end. And I'd like to do that. The great lawyers of the 1980s. This list is very long. I also had the opportunity to meet some of them, e.g. with Mr Andrzej Grabinski, whom I worked with in the 1990s, among others. at the construction of the monument, which is located in the area of the parish of St. Catherine, a monument just in honor of the murdered, oppressed in 1944 and 1956. Let me remind you that your patron Grabinski may also have been punished for his legal activity. Mrs Grabińska was killed, murdered only because she had a name, and unfortunately also the name of the person closest to Mr Andrzej Grabiński was murdered by the Security Service, not the person she was about to murder. There's also a man on this list that I want especially... [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm almost done. ...which I particularly want to thank, because thanks to him I also left prison in the 1980s, earlier than probably would have wished for the other side. This is patron Czesław Jaworski. That's, among other things. He defended us, students, in the 1980s, of course for free, knowing that he was defending people who were being oppressed by the communist regime. Let us give them honor and glory today, for they are also heroes, Polish lawyers. It is very good that we remember them in this year 2018. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u18	Mr. Marshal, thank you. High Izbo! Dear Counsellors! This is a great day, a century of Polish attorneys created by such wonderful, wise, educated people. I would like to thank you briefly on behalf of my environment, first of all, Mr Krzysztof Piesiewicz, not only for what Mr Cichoń spoke about, but also for his beautiful creation of the Decalogue with Mr Krzysztof Kieślowski. He's actually a lawyer the whole world knows. Sometimes I get a chance to call him at night when we watch the Decalogue, and then it turns out that students listen to him in China or Portugal. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the second patron of the arts, Mr Kłys from Krakow, who is very supportive and helpful, which creates a very good climate when it comes to the cooperation of the Bar with the people of art. Finally, I would like to thank my son Filip Fedorowicz, a counselor who probably got me here because I learned to respect the law. Congratulations, everyone. Thank you very much. I apologize for this emotional speech, but this is an opportunity to thank you very much for everything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u19	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like from this place, as the person who participated in the draft resolution... I think this is the best resolution. Of course, it doesn't contain many fine names, but it couldn't contain all of them because the resolution must have very condensed content. As a person repressed at war, I would like to join in congratulating and thanking you. It's thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen... I come from a deep province and if it weren't for the fact that... [[This isn't a deep province.]] The senator is from Slupsk, and I am from Białogard. In Słupsk you had a patron Bogucka-Skowronska, and we in Białogard had no one. This is patron Piotr Andrzejewski, a patron of Bogucka-Skowronska, a patron of Uptas and a few other lawyers that I could name, who came to us when we were Literally. The helpless after the action and when we were convicted. They're the ones who volunteered for us, defended us, and supported us. Without them, we couldn't have done a lot of work and done the things we did. Later we were braver because we knew that they, the bravest patrons, were behind us. I would also like to thank the patron, Senator Ziientarski, who supported Senator Cwojdzińska, Senator of the first term of office. To this day, you are with the people who need it most, supporting these people. And I would like to give thanks and congratulations to all the lawyers, counsels and all our friends. Without you, it'd just be harder to be brave. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Invited Guests! Allow two sentences as a result of the establishment of the National Coordination Commission of the Justice Department after August 1980. Many justice workers have been intensively involved in the transformations of August. But then we also worked with lawyers, with lawyers in Gdańsk, in Krakow, in small towns, in small centres. On our initiative we also created a centre which prepared legal solutions, the law of. was a centre in Cracow. And who worked intensively with lawyers. As vice-president of the National Coordination Commission of the Justice Department at that time, I would like to thank the whole community warmly for this involvement in the transition of August and so strong commitment, also for preparing legal solutions to different levels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u23	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the decree of Chief of State Józef Piłsudski concerning the provisional statute of the Polish State Palestry. Any of your senators in favour of the project? [[Wait a minute, wait a minute.]] [[We're in.]] Who's against it? [[Oh, there's the marshal!]] Who abstained from voting? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, sit down.]] [[Voice from the room: Not so fast.]] [[I could use some valerian drops.]] [[For who?]] [[Lawyer's always gonna come in handy.]] Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the decree of Chief of State Józef Piłsudski concerning the provisional statute of the Polish State Palestry. I ask the Secretary-General of the Bar Council, Mr. Rafał Dębowski, to approach the presidential table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe you're a marshal. [[I don't have a tie, but...]] [[Deputy Marshal Adam Bielan and Marshal Stanisław Karczewski present the resolution]] [[Applause]] [[Secretary-General of the Bar Council Rafał Dębowski: Can I have two words...?]] [[Mr. Marshal decides.]] Counsel is asking him to say two words. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u24	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish lawyer, I would like to thank the House of Reason and Reason for this wonderful resolution. I would like to thank you all warmly and to express my deep appreciation for this profound knowledge of our mission, about our activities, about the people who have created and created a lawyer, about the people who stand on the side of the citizen to protect his rights and freedoms, about those who are fighting for our country to be a democratic state. We often argue, also in the parliamentary and senate committees, about the shape of the law that our country creates. But our voice, the voice of the lawyer, is expressed in the public interest, we don't do privates. Thank you very much, especially the House, this House, for your reasonable contribution to the created law. There are many names today, and I would like to recall two more: Joanna Agacka-Indecka and Stanisław Mikke. I also remember when in March 2010 there was an extraordinary National Congress of Lawyers. I was his secretary, and the chairman was Czesław Jaworski's attorney. I remember this situation: President Lech Kaczyński entered our room, greeted conventionally, courteously with everyone, sat in the first bench opposite Czesław Jaworski, saw Czesław Jaworski, stood up and bowed to him. And then Czesław Jaworski said, "I'm going to say hello to my client." Ladies and gentlemen, I promise that in the next century we all, the Polish lawyer, will work hard for the good of our country and for the good of our citizens. Thank you very much for this resolution. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u25	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator and the Act on occupational pension schemes. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 879, and the committee's report In print No 879 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senate Affairs and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let's wait, Mr. Senator, for everyone to leave... until everyone wants to leave. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like to ask everyone to leave the room smoothly, because we'd like to continue our deliberations. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u26	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the sitting as many as three committees. The draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator and the Act on occupational pension schemes were jointly laid down: the Legislative Commission, the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The project was introduced by a group of senators from the Civic Platform Club. This project introduces a new assistance institution for parliamentarians. It is an expression of concern, as the designers say in the justification, about the fate of former parliamentarians who have no means of living and have fallen short. Such situations occur, in the opinion of the projectors, especially in the case of parliamentarians with a longer parliamentary term who have completed their work in Parliament and cannot return to it as a result of a long break in the profession. There may, of course, also be other random causes. In addition, it must be said that the project also includes employees of the Sejm Chancellery and Senate Chancellery, as well as parliamentary and senator offices. The proposed legal solution makes use of the instrument already existing in the Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator, which is the work of occupational welfare funds for Members and Senators. The project proposes the creation of special funds under these existing occupational funds For Members alone and for Senators alone, called the Former Members' Support Fund and the Former Senators' Support Fund respectively. The funds of these funds would be the source of funding for former parliamentarians, as well as for other people I have mentioned who are in need. To this end, it is proposed to use existing structures with similar tasks, such as those of occupational welfare funds. Support funds would be managed in the same way as other funds at the disposal of occupational welfare funds, but could only be used for financial assistance to former parliamentarians. According to the justification of the project, the proposed proposal will not affect the additional burden on Parliament's budget, or at least the current budget, because we have had an unplanned reduction in Parliamentary salaries. The project also proposes that in occupational retirement schemes... According to the Act which sets out these occupational pension schemes, only employees can participate in them in principle. The point is that under this law and the article on other persons, not about employees who can participate in pension schemes, such as partners of a civil partnership, a partnership and some other persons, Members and Senators can also participate in them. There's been a very long discussion. There have been many guests from various institutions who may have an opinion on this matter, are involved or may be involved in this matter. When it comes to the statements of those guests we were able to talk to at the meeting, it is difficult to be surprised that the finance minister's representative was primarily concerned about the cost of the whole project. This cost has not been fully estimated. According to the Senate Office, it could be up to 28 million PLN per month, but, in fact, it has not been calculated so precisely. A representative of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy recalled that parliamentary and senatorial offices could in principle create occupational pension schemes. Well, there was a misunderstanding, because in the first version a representative of the family ministry said that such a plan in their offices could also be approached by Members and Senators. But after explaining it, it turned out that such a program could only apply to employees. The occupational pension scheme could only apply to staff members of parliamentary and senatorial offices. But there is indeed a possibility. A representative of the Financial Supervision Commission said that, in principle, he referred in particular to the proposal to add Members and Senators to the possibility of creating occupational pension schemes, the law is so constructed, the Act on occupational pension schemes that such people do not fit in. That you'd need a bigger solution for that. I will remind you that this bill is a page-and-a-half. He's very laconic. and it can be said that only Members and Senators are included in an existing law, in one place. According to the KNF representative, because Members and Senators do not have employee status They don't have an employer. This provision should be formulated separately. Many reasons The status, service relationships or the lack of such service relationships in the case of parliamentarians, etc. It points out that a specific provision should be introduced in order to implement the idea of designers. In the discussion, because of the various arguments that I will no longer make here, because I do not want to extend, the part concerning the support fund has been withdrawn by the applicant's representative in particular. As a result, the project has shrunk even further. In practical terms, it only limited itself to the part that says that Members and Senators can participate in occupational pension schemes. Well, basically, that's the only part left. After a long discussion on this subject... most of the debaters spoke about the idea that this idea, I would say, should continue that as for the idea it seems right that there is no reason for these people In particular, those parliamentarians who spend many years in parliament to relinquish the benefits of the Act on Employee Retirement Programmes. I will remind you that there is an element of such a contribution which increases more than a normal contribution to any institution, because there is a State contribution to that contribution. Everyone else can, and parliamentarians can't, as a rule it's... There was actually no disagreement, it was considered that this should be corrected, but after hearing the arguments, especially the proposals of the national financial supervision representative, most of the debaters considered that they simply needed to think about a new, different legal solution, more extensive, more perfect. The final outcome of this discussion was the proposal to reject the project, which received a majority of the joint committees. That's it, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants authorized them to represent Senator Jan Rulewski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Rulewski. Please. I invite the Minister here.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u28	Yes, a representative of the government, although more favourable, would be the representative of the Ministry of Finance who actually analysed this solution in depth. As Senator Radziwił presented the course of the meeting fairly, the most important argument was: there is no money, there is no money in the budget. So there is no maximum of 30 million, although it would be rather less difficult to accurately assess the issue of voluntary insurance. There's no 16 million... But in terms of EPP is the amount Not more than $4 million. Minister, I have a question, although you're not from the Ministry of Finance, how does this come up with another solution, which just after this application came out? and the Ministry of Finance agreed to do so. To allocate billions to another parallel institution, such as employee capital schemes. In other words, there are no 3, 4 million for a group of employees, but there are billions for... isn't that just more than a contradiction? That's one thing. Secondly, your ministry has expressed its opinion that the staff of the Senators and Members' Offices can benefit from this benefit by signing an EPP contract with a Member or Senator. But a Member or a Senator is not an employer. It doesn't even have its own resources to operate the office, they're limited resources at its disposal and... So, don't you think your opinion was false, illegal? And finally, the third issue. Do you think in the ministry about including in, as Senator Radziwiłł said, the benefits of the Act, I am already talking about the PPK, which is to be the dominant system of Members and Senators, especially professional ones, but above all, the employees of law firms and parliamentary offices?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u29	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, maybe I will first refer to the comments that the family, work and social policy department has submitted to this bill, which is to answer the senator's second question. If I were to generalize or generalize our comments made to this project, I would say that this bill deviates, and that is very different, from the scheme of occupational pension schemes that operate, let's say, under the Act on occupational pension schemes. What are the assumptions of this scheme? This diagram assumes It's from the name of the program or the program itself. That the programs are addressed to the employees. They are addressed to workers, although, as the rapporteur pointed out, it is possible to include such an occupational pension scheme also for persons who do not have such a status as an employee, i.e. persons engaged in economic or non-agricultural activities, including partners of companies governed by commercial law, may join such a scheme. Thus, in short, the occupational pension scheme is created for employees, but such a scheme may sometimes be joined by other categories... The State in this project properly provides for the creation of a programme as a rule for Members and Senators, with the possibility of joining also law firms or parliamentary and senator offices. That's one point. Second note. I believe that in this proposal we have one very serious legal, legislative error, which also falls within what I have said, this deviation from the scheme of occupational pension schemes, namely the way in which such a programme is created for Members and Senators. You are proposing that these programmes be created by the Marshal of the Sejm in agreement with the Senate Marshal at the request of at least 15 Members or 10 Senators. As we reach the 2004 Act on occupational pension schemes, we will see that this Act assumes that such a programme is created by contract, factory or inter-company, but a contract which is concluded between social partners, i.e. between the employer and the company's union organisation. If such a programme is created at an inter-company level, then the representation of employers and the representation of employees, in principle the union representation of employees, decides to create the programme. So this mode is very different from the bill. Same with the mouth. 2 of the proposed Article. 28a. You propose that the Marshal of the Sejm, in agreement with the Speaker of the Senate, lay down detailed rules for the creation and conduct of the occupational pension scheme, as well as the rules for accession and participation in these programmes, as well as the amount of the basic contribution and the rules for the payment and transfer of the accumulated cash. These are matters that are now quite precisely defined in the Act. And now: you may have the impression that this provision of the Act would in a sense be intended to allow for the introduction of rules separate from those already provided for in the Act. Well, the agreement of the Marshal of the Sejm and the Marshal of the Senate is not a source of law and cannot change the rules that have been laid down in the legal form. The senator also asked me about the differences between the PPK and the PPE and these financial issues. That's how I'd answer. If we look at today on a scale in terms of the number of people covered by occupational pension schemes, as well as the number of occupational pension schemes in Poland, we will see that these numbers are small, the interest in these schemes is simply small. We can discuss the reasons for this, the reasons, in any case this proposal, the solution that we introduced in 2004, did not make occupational pension schemes universal. The assumption, as regards employee capital plans, is completely different, is that these plans should be universal, and this is reflected in the provisions of the Act on employee capital plans. Hence the cost statement that the senator quoted, well, how to put it, could lead to some conclusions... As regards employee capital plans, I have the impression that there is no obstacle to the establishment of an employee capital plan in the Sejm and Senate Office if the conditions laid down in the Act are met. I will also draw attention to one solution which, in a sense, regulates the relationship between employee pension schemes and employee capital plans. This solution is that the introduction of an occupational pension scheme excludes or may exclude the obligation for an employer who fulfils the conditions laid down in the Act on Employee Capital Plans to create such a capital plan. This also shows the difference between these solutions. The occupational pension scheme is a voluntary solution, i.e. when the social partners at the level of the workplace or at the level between the employees agree on the establishment of the pension scheme, such a scheme is created. The Act on Employee Capital Plans uses a different design, i.e. it is an obligation to set up a staff capital plan, with the worker being free to join such a capital plan. This is the element to build this universality of the capital plan. So that I would refer to the senator's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u31	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to ask... Excuse me, Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u32	If I can keep the Minister, I'd like to ask you the following question. Namely, the majority of the joint committees spoke against this project, also government representatives pointed to various doubts. But after these committee meetings, after this analysis, did the government, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy discuss how to solve this problem? Because the problem that Senator Rulewski has formulated is that especially parliamentarians who work in Parliament for many years may have difficulties returning to the labour market. We know this situation when they're in a very difficult situation. So, in short, how can it be otherwise, if not through these solutions that are proposed, to resolve this situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u33	If I were to advise on how this project could be improved and in what direction changes should take place in the case of this project, so that it meets certain conditions of legislative correctness and compatibility, I do not know, with the current system of legal sources in Poland... It seems to me that this project should simply be adapted to certain schemes and structures that appear in the Act on occupational pension schemes. So that's how I'd see it. I feel like there's a possibility today. The possibility of creating an occupational pension scheme for employees of the Sejm Office and the Senate Office. The firm is an employer within the meaning of the Labour Code... [[And the parliamentarians?]] So if I were to advise in any way, I would say this: I think it would be worth considering adapting the provisions on the creation of occupational pension schemes to the scheme that is in the law today. So not Marshal of the Seym with Marshal of the Senate in agreement, but in the manner in which occupational retirement schemes are created today, i.e. the employer and the company's union organisation or employee representation at the factory level. And I think it would be worth considering an extension in the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act setting out today the catalogue of persons who may join the occupational pension scheme. That is, as you propose in the Act, in addition to those categories of persons who, apart from employees, can join, name Members and Senators. And in that case... [[It's on the project.]] I know, I know. I can see it. And in such a case, let's say, the allegations relating above all to a much different form of creation and the principles of operation and payment of contributions could, however, be undermined. So that I would consider this kind of solution. So it's just an art change. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 laws, extension of the catalogue of Members and Senators. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u34	You're Senator Czerwinski, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u35	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, are you sure you have more knowledge and orientation, what is it like in other countries? Because that's where the representative bodies are, too. Are there parallels to such pension schemes for former Members and Senators or, in general, for representatives of the nation? And what is it like in the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u36	To be honest, I cannot tell you what it looks like in other countries today, such as the Member States of the European Union. But, of course, we have a social security system for EU officials. We know the mechanism. European Parliamentaries are covered by such a pension scheme for officials of the EU institutions. So there are, let's say, examples of such special systems, separate social security systems. At the same time, we must realise that we are talking today about the element of our social security system, which is additional and complementary. This is not an element that, say, determines whether or not it determines the scope of social security. In Poland, unfortunately, the interest in occupational pension schemes is simply very low. Like I said, we can talk about the reasons. I think that the material situation of workers is still such an element that they do not choose to create occupational pension schemes. It is often the case that the occupational pension scheme is set up, the employees join it, but do not pay their contributions. We're dealing with such dead accounts in occupational retirement schemes. If the senator asks me about the operation of such occupational retirement schemes in other countries... Well, there are countries where such programmes are fairly common in nature. I'd give an example of Britain. But also countries where social security systems are based on similar assumptions as those on which our system is based, i.e. countries that come from this tradition of bismarck social security, also create their pension systems, based on, you can say, the multi-levelity of this security. In addition to such basic state pension insurance, such occupational pension schemes are created, simply at the level of the workplace, at the level of the employer. They have a long tradition in many countries, have contributed to building a significant asset from which pension benefits are then financed, and actually contribute, and to a significant extent, to improving the quality of life, the standard of living of workers after reaching retirement age. So that, in fact, compared to other countries... Our occupational retirement schemes simply do not develop as we would like. The percentage of people covered by these programmes is small and the number of programmes is certainly not satisfactory either.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u37	If you don't mind, Minister, I'd like to ask you in writing... But I'm talking about those specialized parliamentarians... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: Good.]] ...from the countries of the European Union for the next 1.5 years. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marcin Zielenecki: We will prepare.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u38	No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written reply to the questions raised by Senators Czerwinski and Szymański. [[Szymanski too, right?]] Yeah, both of them. [[Yeah, yeah. Because what the Minister said is important to the High House.]] Oh, yeah, yeah. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since I have not been asked questions about this initiative, I will allow myself to speak at a difficult time, a time which, in my opinion, is accelerated today. Even though Senator Radziwił was fairly honest about the work in committee, not all ideas could be said. Especially since the government's opinions, well, have changed, first of all. But second of all, And this is the most important of all, there was a new reality that I tried to explain in my question to the Minister. This bill, submitted by a group of Senators of the Civic Platform, was created at a time when even the principle of the Act on Active Capital Plans had not yet been settled. In this respect, it was clear that the project could not include even the conditions for this staff capital plan. It is true that he is different, supported by budgetary resources, by the huge budgetary resources of the State. But this project also does not allow Members and Senators to participate in the benefits of these conditional, i.e. voluntary, insurance. It is true that this bill will this time include the staff of law firms and parliamentary and senator offices. But, attention, what the Minister has not said is that the current PPE Act is universal, which is practically because the theory has resolved it, all employees could participate in these programs. And that's how it's written in the bill. Even close to us in terms of functions, duties, responsibilities, responsibilities... The PPE and PPK Act includes members of supervisory boards who are not connected with the employer, unless they are his supervisor, not his duties, such as working time, specific tasks... Those members of the supervisory boards may participate in these staff programmes. But that's not what I want to talk about. I want to talk about what Senator Radziwiłł has already started talking about, that this law does not create a new law, and it certainly does not create a privilege. She's just cleaning up a legal loophole that... Perhaps the bureaucrat, in this well understood sense, did not see Members and Senators as employees, because in fact our status is not of a staff nature, as here the pharmacist is trying to command us by the Minister, the second Minister of Finance and even the Financial Supervision Commission. Well, if you were to accept it, then... Copernicus also broke the law adopted at the time, and as an engineer I can say that we should withdraw gum from public use, rubber was not in nature, so why is this rubber used. So if someone isn't an employee, everything else needs to be crossed out. If so, then also, as the Minister himself said, members of companies, employers, because employers who manage these companies can participate, so is the bill... The employer is not an employee, not always, the employer, the chairman of the board does not have to come to work at all. So that discoveries, Minister, you have indeed extraordinary. But you're not alone. Now there's an important question to answer... This is simply a failure of the creators, and perhaps ours, who have not led us to participate in voluntary insurance funds. It's a lot of care, because there's a belief in circulation that we're... Many of us are professional Members, statistics say that there are 73 senators in the Senate so-called. 17 senators don't get paid and 10 get reduced. There is a similar situation in the Seym. But what are we talking about? We're talking about filling the gap in insurance reality. The insurance reality, which is offered in the form of a law, covers three pillars and all employees, i.e. the basic pillar, the OFE or the replacement of the PPK, and the voluntary pillar, of course, related to the payment of the contribution. And it turns out that one of the best groups that meets insurance requirements is Members and Senators. Let's take a look at this because maybe we didn't have time for this. Not only are we fulfilling the basic obligations in terms of the amount and timeliness of the contribution, but also in terms of part of the privileges, because we do not fully benefit from insurance, for example on leave, and women on maternity leave... We don't know the concept of overtime. Moreover, a Member and a Senator, who will finish his career and sign up to the employment office for the benefit, will not receive him because he did not work, he was just a Member or Senator, although he will be able to attend some training courses, yes, right. So we don't even use this institution. And I repeat: the balance of contributions to benefits is one of the best balances for ZUS. And luckily, the U.S.S. didn't include a negative opinion here. Of course, there are other obstacles that affect the necessity of... One of them is e.g. the inability to take up work or to serve in companies of the State Treasury or in private companies or to take up other activities... Well, provided you lose some or all of your salary... And for this reason, I do not think that we are fighting for some privilege. Or even a blessing, as Senator Radziwill said. We fight discrimination and we fight for what you said. Besides, everyone here agrees that many of us, as part of such a moral imperative, undertake functions, this is not a choice. In my opinion, every Pole should try to be a Member, a senator, president, councillor, etc. And if we're doing this, the authorities, especially the government of the finance minister, shouldn't bid on how much for this function we ladies, the least power of the Ministry of Finance, which turns out to be In the past, she has been rewarding herself for her functions. We don't want such awards, we don't expect, we perform functions as we can and within different possibilities, which often exceeds... One example of this exceeding the capacity of parliamentarians is the fact that they are sacrificing themselves. Many, as I have noticed here, sacrifice their qualifications, high professional qualifications, passions, even I would say, professionally to serve the Republic, i.e. sacrifice themselves for the common good. Well, unfortunately, with a decreasing tendency. Until recently I sat among senators, 8 of whom were patrons, today this number is being reduced, for understandable reasons, material and others, because prestige, dignity of parliamentarians is not protected. By the way, I'm surprised they're criticizing us, saying administration. After all, any profession is protected, representatives of any profession can strike, they can prosecute, they can dupe claims on the street. We don't do it, and we probably won't do it, just because we're more driven by moral imperative, or something that's necessary. And in my opinion, every Pole and every Polish woman should participate in the system of parliamentary democracy, but not everyone can. One more thing, as I say, is a matter of finance. This project was created on the basis of savings that were created... [[Mr. Senator, it's been 10 minutes.]] Now. Yes? Thank you. Can I go to the second tour? [[Good. Please.]] Five more minutes. As you know, under the decision of the Sejm, wages have been reduced. This is probably the only professional or social group, let's call it, a social group that has suffered damage in the past 11 years, which has been reduced, well, under a very damaging term in my opinion, because the salaries were capital, politics was a place to make capital... Well, I don't know how to compare it, time doesn't allow it, but I know that if anyone thought about it capital and saw these capitalists, I'd see myself. in Orlenu, the truth, as a former Member or one who resigns from the message or senatorship. Yeah, like over there. A spokesperson, a young wonderful girl, acting spokesperson, received 6 times the monthly salary, with very low qualifications, well, except for visual ones, which unfortunately I am unable to guarantee. So if we're talking about capital, it's the capital somewhere else. But as for the bill, as a result of this assessment of the Sejm... And, unfortunately, we have also taken this truth as a true truth. If you can say that there are true truths And as a result, there was a surplus in the Senate budget of four... In total, a surplus of PLN 12.5 million was created in the salary department. Well, it's just payback. However, this surplus should be better managed. Without arguing with these solutions, we should secure ourselves for the future, because each of us will be in an equally difficult pension situation, even after the introduction of this system. I believe that these measures should not be lost, that they should be used for other purposes. They could be used for something that is the universal virtue of all nations and all men. For saving for old age. And in this sense, I'm still asking you to lean on this bill. Even in the spirit that the Minister was talking about. I therefore propose an amendment which takes into account changes in legislation and says that this draft law should be considered in the context of recently adopted occupational capital programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u40	Thank you so much for those two speeches by Senator Rulewski. [[Applause]] Mr. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm performing very briefly today. This will also be a very short speech. First of all, I would like to thank Senator Rulewski and the people who supported him in preparing the project. Although I remember exactly that I was against him. It's probably gonna be all the way to the end, and it's gonna be in the vote any minute now. But not because the problem is not important. This problem is important, but the project is imperfect. In this speech, I would like to encourage the senator and the Senate to work on it so that we do not postpone it for another term. Indeed, what you said in the explanatory memorandum is a serious problem and we need to look for a good solution to this problem. Let's see what the vote looks like on this. But if it is negative for this project, I would encourage us to continue to look for good solutions to the problems put forward by Senator Rulewski just now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u42	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record... Oh, I inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Rulewski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? No. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be an adjournment in a moment. At 11:00 p.m., I invite you to a parliamentary fee meeting, which will take place in the main hall of the Sejm. At 12.00 I invite you to the opening of the exhibition KUL University of Independent Poland 1918-2018. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 43 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u43	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, let me remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 19, 20 and 21 December 2018. The agenda of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means with a timetable for the work of the Senate between January and September 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Senate meeting scheduled for 9th, 10th and 11th January will not be held at the present meeting of the Budget Act for 2019. The Senate will consider the 2019 Budget Act at its meeting on 23 and 24 January 2019. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on excise duties. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1028 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u44	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! This morning, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance discussed the amendments tabled, unanimously passed the law without amendments and with the same proposal addressed to the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator want to speak again? Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski presented his conclusions in the discussion. No. We therefore proceed to the vote. I ask you, first of all, to vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The votes were 86 senators, 79 votes against, 3 against and 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it asked for the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senatski print No 1029 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 61 votes against, 26 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 1023 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 83 for and 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 15]] In the light of the results... [[I don't have a card.]] Card? We're gonna take a break in a minute. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services. We're gonna take a temporary technical break to look for the card. [[He's here.]] Is he, Mr. Marshal? There it is. You already have a marshal. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Retail Tax Act. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 1031 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 87 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Retail Tax. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1024 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the committee meeting, we discussed the amendments tabled. Only one amendment was considered positive, the rest It's negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz submitted their conclusions during the discussion. [[Me.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a request not to delete Maria Konopnicka, who wrote the most beautiful poem about her mother's graves.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u49	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to speak? Senator Fedorovich? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on Amendment 1, which amends the preamble to the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 30 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was not supported, it was rejected. Note: Amendments 2, 4, 12, 14, 20 and 25 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendment 26. Amendments 2, 4, 12, 14, 20 and 25 assume that six months after the essential date of the entry into force of the Law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland within the meaning of the Law adopted by the Sejm and the graves of veterans, anti-communist opposition activists, as well as the graves of soldiers of other countries fighting for independence of Poland will be placed, at the appropriate request, gravestone marks according to the pattern given by the generally applicable laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 59 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] Amendments 2, 4, 12, 14, 20 and 25 were rejected. Amendment 3 properly reflects the relationship between the laws by deleting the non-essential provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 59 against. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 5 extends the circle of entities that may apply for registration of a grave located outside Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] Amendments 6 and 11 should be voted on together. They supplement the provisions for the possibility to request registration when applying for registration and for the possibility to collect personal address data in the register. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 60 against. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 7 assumes that the application for registration of the grave will be subject to review by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and the College's opinion and review by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and not to independent resolution of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance and appeal to the College. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 60 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 22]] Correction denied. Amendment 8 extends the deadline to confirm the voivodeship that the grave entered in the records is not a war grave. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 28 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 9 deletes normative non-essential part of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 27 for, 60 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 10 assumes that if the grave is refused to be entered in the records, the application for registration of the grave will be re-examined by the President of the IPN and the College's opinion rather than by the College of IPN. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 27 votes against, 59 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 13 assumes that no information will be stored in the records of the graves to justify the recognition that the grave fulfils the criteria for its recognition as a veteran's grave. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 28 votes against, 55 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 15 extends the calculation of entities cooperating with IPN in obtaining information on veterans graves for a clear indication of natural persons. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted against, 26 votes against, 58 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 16 as a consequence of the principle that grants from Article. 8 The Act may not be granted to natural persons to delete those arrangements which assume that the grant application contains the name of the applicant. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 89 senators voted against, 28 votes against, 60 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 17 extends the rules for granting grants to the rules for exercising control over the appropriations granted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 27 votes against, 59 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 18 accepts that a person who is a member of a veteran's family or a person designated by it, and not any natural person who takes care of the grave, will be able to apply for a cash benefit to cover the costs of taking care of the grave. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 60 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendments 19 and 21 should be voted on together. They assume that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure will apply to proceedings for the entry of the grave into the records and to proceedings for the granting of a cash benefit to cover the costs of the care of the grave and, consequently, that the granting of the benefit will take the form of a decision rather than a contract. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 89 senators voted, 28 for, 60 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] We are voting on Amendment 22. It assumes that the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure will apply to proceedings for the entry of the grave into the records and to proceedings for the granting of a cash benefit to cover the costs of the care of the grave. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And I'm asking you to give me the results. The votes were 89 senators, 28 votes against, 60 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 23 introduces provisions allowing the President of the IPN to issue a decision banning the use of the grave entered in the records for re-buying. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 59 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 24 deletes the provision which assumes that the records kept under the law require a separate act of creation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. There were 89 senators voted, 28 for, 60 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 26 changes the date of entry into force of the Act from a rigid calendar date to a date determined by the expiry of time. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 27 for, 60 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 35]] Has any amendment been accepted? No. Now I'm filing a motion to adopt a law without amendment. I'll call it in, so I'm gonna... You're the same... Yes? [[Yes.]] This is a motion to adopt a law without amendment. We proceed to vote on this proposal, to adopt a resolution on the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 86 were in favour, no one opposed, three abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. We are back to discussing item nine of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Feed. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 84 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Feed. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Law on forests. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 1026 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 Senators voted 88 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Law on Forests. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and the cessation of free coal collection by persons who are not employees of the mining company. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print Nos 1032 A and 1032 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 were in favour, 1 against, and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the act on compensation for the loss of the right to free coal and for the cessation of the collection of free coal by persons who are not employees of the mining company. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the law on European political parties and European political foundations. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 1022 A and 1022 B. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the two committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 89 senators voted, 87 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on European political parties and European political foundations. We are returning to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the State Security Service in the years 2017 to 2020. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints 1030 A and 1030 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guard, State Fire and State Protection Service in the years 2017 to 2020. We would like to return to the discussion of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on security of mass events. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 1021 Z. I would ask Senator Mark Rocky to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to inform you that, after this morning's meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the committees recommend the Senate to 10 votes in favour and 9 against The adoption of a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. Would the other Senator rapporteur still like to speak? The rapporteur of the Scientific Committee was Senator Marek Rocki, and Senator Piotr Florek was the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I can't see, I can't hear the calls. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 85 votes against, 2 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on security of mass events. We return to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 827 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jan Rulewski to present the Senate's position in further work on the bill. We proceed to the vote on the draft law proposed by the committees to amend the law Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 84 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 43]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on administrative proceedings and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Jan Rulewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on criminal proceedings. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No. 939 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law tabled by the committees on amending the law Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 44]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Andrzej Mioduszewski to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of the 20th agenda item: the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendment of Senator Print No 1046 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 63 were in favour, 23 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2018. We return to the examination of item twenty of the first agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the property right of the land. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 1047 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 85 were in favour, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the conversion of the right to use perpetual land built for residential purposes into the right of ownership of these land. We return to the examination of item twenty-second of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. A meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 1044 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Antoni Szymanski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u52	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the committee has gathered today and, after a thorough discussion, proposes that the Senate adopt a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the rapporteurs of the minority committee and the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn and Senator Jan Rulewski submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are just before making a decision on almost one million people in Poland, most often mothers with children whose fathers do not want to pay for them. The proposal, which aims to improve the collection of claims from irresponsible parents in favour of the Alimentation Fund, and introduces a slight improvement, an increase in the threshold to which these benefits should be paid, these small benefits, seems to us, as applicants for minorities, for two reasons for having a shallow, non-cleaning effect. I'm sure you've been given these dramatic letters on your mailboxes that appeal to us to do more on this threshold. We, me and Senator Rulewski, offer, optionally, two solutions. The first is to raise this threshold to specific amounts, especially with regard to people with disabilities in the family, as you have proposed to provide 500+ education in order to distinguish. And here, above all, Senator Rulewski suggested that it be 1,000 and 1 thousand 200... [[For the disabled.]] ...for the disabled. The second proposal is finally resolved systematically, i.e. not show the amounts, but refer to the lowest remuneration. Just like you. You've seen in these letters, that's the problem mostly about mothers with children, which these so-called, and rightly called, allies don't want to pay. We are really taking account of budgetary realities, because setting this threshold, as we propose, at 55% The lowest wage will only give a slightly higher amount than the 800 PLN you are proposing. He's not here. budgetary risks, therefore. Finally, the Ministry and these families will know what this threshold is and what it will be. It will increase systematically when the government decides to increase the minimum wage. That's what we're asking. Besides, we are asking for these benefits to be valued, and that is because these 500 PLN for 11 years have been frozen. And this is maintained by you even now, when the budgetary situation is good. I was talking about... I ask you, if you choose this move, it would be really in line with your priorities, the priorities of this government in family policy, and it certainly would not overcharge the budget. These are reasonable, balanced proposals. I'm appealing for their admission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski still reporting. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u56	Just a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, by another law, you've granted your grandchildren from mining families Christmas Eve benefits for the Christmas tree. Kids who don't have parents are also waiting for Christmas gifts, or actually the necessity... I would like your support, especially for children with disabilities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u57	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 31 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to improve the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance services. We return to the examination of item twenty-third of the agenda: the Law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for healthcare provision. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 1045 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Commission met and examined two amendments. One of them, already accepted by the committee, we re-examined This was the procedure The second one was submitted by Senator Grodzki. The first amendment, previously adopted by the committee, did not obtain a majority in the vote. The amendment tabled by Senator Grodzki was also rejected. The committee therefore proposes to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator want to speak again? And the senator is Senator Tomasz Grodzki. [[Voice from the room: He's gone.]] There isn't? That's not gonna happen. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1. It aims to reduce the frequency of notification by healthcare providers to the voivodship branch of the National Health Fund of information on the first free time for granting the benefit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 25 against, 51 against, 8 senators abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Correction denied. Amendment 2 provides for the possibility of granting grants to non-business medicinal products. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 83 senators voted. 27 were in favour, 55 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] I'm filing a motion to adopt a law without amendment. We are voting on this proposal. Which one of you is... We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted. 57 senators were in favour, 4 against, 24 abstentions. [[Voting No 50]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending certain laws in connection with e-direction and waiting lists for the provision of health care. High Izbo, we are returning to the examination of item twenty-four of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 1041 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted. 78 were in favour, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Disclosure of Documents of State Security Authorities from 1944 to 1990 and the contents of these documents. I would like to inform you that the order of the 60th session of the Senate has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Senator Jerzy Wczyła.]] Mr. Senator Jerzy Wszyła was the first. You're welcome, Senator. And then in order. How many calls do we have? [[Yes, it will be Senator Libicki, Senator Gaweł and Senator Czerwiński.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm making a statement on behalf of 29 senators. The statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, According to the data of the Central Statistical Office and the report of the Polish statistical portal prepared by Kantar Millward Brown, over the last 3 years the cost of statistical maintenance of the citizen has increased from about PLN 1 thousand to nearly PLN 1 thousand 600. You could say that the increase in the cost of living has already sucked the entire 500+ out of citizens' wallets. But the biggest raises are just ahead of us. Poles are bombarded daily with other, often mutually exclusive information on the range of increases in electricity prices, the areas covered by them, and how to compensate for the increase in costs for individual actors and social groups. Unfortunately, the source of disinformation is primarily government members. According to the Minister, the Prime Minister and the documents of energy companies reaching us almost at the same time, energy prices will rise by 70%, 60%, 30%, by a dozen percent, and even by a dozen percent, as stated by the Prime Minister on 12 December. They won't grow at all. Which of these information is true? We are also constantly learning that these increases will be compensated, but we do not know how, on what scale, for what period, and who will be compensated. At the same time, when the Ministry of Energy receives a signal that the government will allocate about PLN 4 and PLN 5 billion for compensation, the Ministry of Finance informs that no compensation is foreseen in the 2019 budget. As if mocking the Poles, the Minister of Energy explains that the special compensation fund will fund PLN 1 billion of the same energy companies that demand an increase in energy prices. This entanglement of conflicting and illogical statements suggests that this government is only ruling theoretically. We expect rapid and unambiguous information on whether and to what extent electricity prices will increase, what is their relevance and how they will be compensated. We also apply to the Prime Minister to include local authorities in the compensation scheme for increases in electricity prices and increases in the costs of waste management caused by the increase in environmental charges. Self-governments in a system based on the constitutional principle of subsidiarity play the role of the closest citizen to a body fulfilling public safety obligations, health care, education, the right to housing and many other tasks. The expected increases make some of these tasks impossible. We believe that it is the responsibility of the state to fulfil its obligations under environmental directives, including those relating to greenhouse gas emissions, and to shift the burden to local governments for this purpose, is not justified. We expect the government to prepare proposals for such compensation for local governments. A good place for them to confront local governments can be the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. The statement was signed by senators: Mieczysław Augustyn, Marek Borowski, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Leszek Czarnobaj, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Piotr Florek, Tomasz Grodzki, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Władysław Komarnicki, Jan Filip Libicki, Grzegorz Napieralski, Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, Marian Poślednik, Marek Rocki, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Sławomir Rybicki, Waldemar Sługocki, Anna Grażyna Sztark, Przemysław Termiński, Piotr Wach, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski and Jerzy Wcisła. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u61	Thank you very much, Senator. The next senator to make a statement will be Senator Libicki. You're welcome, Senator. [[I'm here, I'm just gonna get ready...]] There you go. It's time to count from the moment... [[...when I start reading. Okay?]] From the start point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u62	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, my senator's statement is addressed to the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr. Adam Glapiński. Dear President, As you know very well, in recent weeks the head of the Financial Supervision Committee, Mr. Mark Ch, has resigned. It is related to the recording, whose content was published in the release of the Gazeta Wyborcza in November this year. The content of this publication shows that there are many indications that the former head of KNF demanded a giant bribe from one of the owners of the Polish bank. Shortly after his resignation, the former head of KNF was arrested by CBA officers and then arrested by the court for 2 months. Meanwhile, on November 16th this year at Congress 590 in Rzeszów you said: Professor Marek Ch. directing the supervision without charge; carrying out his function with all professional principles. Another statement: the former president of KNF is an honest man. And next, as far as I know, Professor Ch. There's no charge of corruption, there's no charge. There's an investigation going on. The first interrogation has not yet taken place. And now the last quote: the former head of KNF was not cancelled, but he resigned for the sake of the Polish financial system, banking system, economy, it was right and very patriotic. I'm putting it behind the Parkiet.com portal. Dear President, so far I have not been able to find any statement of yours that, after arresting and arresting the former head of KNF, would straighten out your claims or otherwise explain them to the public. I do not presume that you may simply avoid speaking on this matter and making your views known to the public on this subject. Therefore, using the institution's senator's statement, which requires you to answer it within 30 days, I dare ask you the following questions. First of all, do you support your earlier opinion that Professor Marek Ch. direct supervision without charge and carry out his duties with all professional principles? Secondly, do you still believe that the former head of KNF was not dismissed, but resigned himself for the sake of the Polish financial system, the banking system, the economy and that it was right and very patriotic? Thirdly, do you still claim that the former CEO of KNF is an honest man, where could it be that the CBA stopped and then the court arrested an honest man? Fourthly, are you allowing the situation? If you still consider Mr. Ch. For an honest man. The CBA, under its current direction, may, for example, Stop honest people? Fifthly, do you think that the standard of honest people supervising the financial system in Poland is to use the so-called private conversations. Noisy? Sixthly, does this standard also operate in private conversations of employees led by Mr. NBP? I'm talking about the standard noise just now. After the seventh one presented in the media of the recordings, it also appears that the former president of KNF offered the bank owner an illegal solution, and when the caller pointed out to him, the former head of KNF stated that he knew about it, but after all he talked privately Do you think that's what honest people do? I would be very grateful for your answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, please take the floor of Senator Robert Gawl.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u64	Mr. Marshal, the statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, In June 2018, the Law of 22 March 2018 amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise (Polish State Railways) and the Law on Rail Transport entered into force. The amendments were designed to facilitate the preservation of the historical railway heritage and the functioning of retro, tourist and occasional railways. According to the information I received, six months after the law entered into force, the changes made remain dead. Since the entry into force of the Act, I have not been aware of any transfer of historic rolling stock or old-fashioned materials to social organisations. All claims received were negative or unanswered. I therefore request the following information: how many requests for transmission under Article. 39b and 39c of the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise Polskie Koleje Koleje Państwowe. has been received by PKP SA, PKP PLK SA, PKP Cargo SA and PKP Intercity SA; how many applications have been examined and how many are left unanswered today; what are the specific reasons for the refusals; what procedures should be introduced and what obstacles should be removed so that social organisations can effectively benefit from the provisions of the Act? To my knowledge, the organisations that have applied under Article. 39b and 39c are: Club of Sympathists of Railways in Wroclaw, Association of Wielkopolska Railways in Jarocin, Foundation of Polish Narrow Track Railways, Pomeranian Society of Iron and Piaseczyn-Grójce Railways Association. Pomorskie The Association of Iron Railway Lovers received negative responses from PKP SA and PKP Intercity SA. The Wielkopolska Railway Society received a negative reply from PKP PLK SA. The application concerned the transfer of an old 8A passenger car to the museum. PKP PLK SA plans to announce a tender for its sale. Such a decision is surprising because the wagon was entered in the register of monuments at the request of the Wielkopolska Railway Society An organisation with the status of a public benefit organisation. This is therefore an example of a model-wide assumption of a revised law. In addition, where several organisations applied for the same rolling stock, before the amendment of the law, it was passed on to the organisation which first came forward. Why is the tender now being announced? Please provide a justification for such actions? At the same time, I declare my cooperation in the event that the protection of the railway heritage requires additional legal changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. [[May I join you, Senator?]] You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda. Dear Mr. President, I allow myself to refer again to you as chairman of the Committee of the National Cows of the Hundredth Anniversary of the Reclaim of Independence of the Republic of Poland. First of all, I would like to thank you for taking up the subject of the reconstruction of the Saski Palace in Warsaw, which you announced on 11 November this year. I would like to thank you all the more because in one of the previous statements I have asked you to do so, as one of many people, associations and other actors. The rebuilt Saski Palace in the centre of the Polish state, in its capital, will certainly be an appropriate and meaningful symbol of both the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence as well as the independence, sovereignty and independence of the state. In my opinion, the completion of this central, but single sign should be symbols, souvenirs of celebrations preserved in every Polish family, in every Polish house. At the same time, I believe that you, as the head of the Polish state, his representative and representative, have a special, greatest right to define such a family symbol, but also to pass it on to every Polish family. Of course, it would be advisable for this subject to perform other functions, apart from the symbolic one, related to the celebration of the 100th anniversary. I propose that it be a book It should cover the full 100 years of the latest history of our country and nation until 11 November 2018, of course also the process of forming the independent Republic of Poland during World War I. The authors of this book should be recognized and, most importantly, independent of political influences of historians dealing with the latest history of our country. I place emphasis on the reliability and independence of possible authors not only from current politics but also from fashionable ideological trends, mass culture, media pressures or political correctness. The main criterion of the book's contents should be the criterion of truth and facts. The history of Poland is so rich, interesting and elevated that it could be divided into several nations. It doesn't have to beautify and color. All it takes is a faithful and reliable reproduction, a description, in particular the history of the latest, the last 100 years, the most interesting one, because the closest one to us, but also the most controversial one, because it often affects people who are still alive or who are in our memory. In favour of writing, publishing and handing over the history of Poland from regaining independence to every Polish house, each Polish family speaks of the following conditions. Firstly, it is a poor knowledge of the latest history in Polish society, resulting largely from deliberate previous actions and omissions both in the period until 1989. At that time it was the ideology, forgery and objectification of history, as well as after the turn of 1989, when it was about political correctness, omission of uncomfortable facts, the pedagogy of shame. That's why the so-called. The third of the Republic of Poland was rumored history from schools in order to be able to rule the ignorant of their ancestors and their role as a society, and also to prevent the rebirth in the Polish nation of natural patriotic attitudes for them. Secondly, reliable knowledge derived from the reading of the Polish History from regaining independence will allow not only to deepen knowledge of facts. First of all, to the public, what are the causes of the present place of Poland and the problems affecting it: the loss of the Second World War, the murder of nearly 1/6 of our citizens, the loss of national wealth, the 45-year period of domination of the communist party inhibiting natural development processes or finally the so-called systemic transformation, controlled to meet the needs of internal post-communist oligarchy and external finance. Only common knowledge of the true latest history will allow Poles to learn resistance to lies, control and manipulation. The Polish people deserve full truth about themselves and their ancestors. Thirdly, the delivery of Poland's history from regaining independence would also be a clear cezure, a point on the axis of our country's history, not only as a celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, but as an spontaneous event. President Aleksander Kwasniewski did the same by sending copies of the newly adopted constitution to Polish houses in 1997. Dear President, of course I am aware of the costs which give rise to my proposed message to every family of one copy of the Polish History from regaining independence. If the volume and the brochure were to be reduced, these costs would certainly be reduced. An additional reduction in the unit printing price and the transmission of copies of the book will be ensured by the mass of the shares. It is intended to go to every Polish family. If such an operation is not possible in the universal version, I may propose a limited version: printing, then already in an increased quality, and passing one copy of the book to each Polish library, including in particular all school libraries. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-14-senat-68-3.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. We don't have any messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 60th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 60th eighth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 13 minutes 28]]
