ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Mr Waldemar Buda, Mr Marcin Duszek, Mr Piotr Olszówka and Mr Krzysztof Kubow to the secretaries of today's proceedings. Piotr Olszówka and Krzysztof Kubów will be members in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Piotr Olszówka and Marcin Duszek. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats at the Presidential table. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 9, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Infrastructure - hour 9.30 a.m., - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 9.45, - to the Energy and Treasury - immediately after the end of the meeting convened at the time of the meeting. 9.45, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9.45, - Public Finance - hour. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 11.30, - Health-- hour. 12, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 13, - Public Finances together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 2.30 p.m., - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 15, - to the Energy and Treasury together with the Committee on Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 15, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 19. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Volleyball Team - h.m. 10, - Parliamentary Aviation Team - hour 11, - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 12, - the Joint Parliamentary Group on Spa and the Krkonoše-Jizera Parliamentary Team - at 10 a.m. 12, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 2.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u3	Thank you. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Special Arrangements for Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, - amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints 3097 and 3098 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on the items on the agenda added, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I remind you that the question may not last more than 2 minutes, and that the answer may not last longer than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. The first question on co-financing for the rural housewives is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Mr Mariusz Trepek will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Sejm has passed a law on the circles of rural hostesses, which is now to be voluntary social organisations of villagers active in the field of rural environments. The wheel can be established by 10 people and must be entered in the register kept by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The Act gives simple legal personality to wheels, which will allow them to benefit from various forms of support, e.g. in the form of EU funds or targeted grants from the State budget. The specific programme of law and justice for the rural hostess' circles is 3 000. PLN start support for each wheel, and for the largest even 5 thousand. zł. It's also tax relief and simplified accounting. The wheels receive free legal assistance in the municipality or in the county branch of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The Keeper will assist in formal matters, will be a simple and quick registration. Existing wheels will be able to continue to operate on existing rules or enter the new system. This is really a specific program that shows that law and justice cares about the interests of ordinary people, not just those in power and from big cities. On this occasion, I would like to say hello to all the ladies from the country housewives who are currently preparing to review the Christmas tables and will present their dishes. Dear Minister, I would like to ask: What assistance from the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture can the hostess circles expect? When can the wheels apply for funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u5	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to thank you for that question. It is important both for the rural hostels' circles, as well as for explaining the idea of this law to the public. Unfortunately, I have to say with regret, I also receive information from various voivodships about misinformation about the circles of rural hostess, mainly spread by activists of the Polish People's Party, who scare the hostess' circles, that if they register under the rule of this law, the tax office will rip them off, they will pay taxes. It may be an act of desperation, or maybe a shame, that for so many years a party that has declared itself as a rural party, a party supporting the change in the countryside, has not introduced such a revolutionary solution. Indeed, as you have said, this is a law which primarily gives legal personality to the groups of rural hostesses, i.e. what the circles did not have under the act on socio-professional farmers' organisations. Today we have - I apologize for the digression - December 13th. For Poland it is a symbolic date, a tragic date. I would like to remind you that the law, which has so far regulated the circles of rural housewives subject to agricultural circles, was adopted in the martial law in October 1982. It's also about fixing history mistakes. The Act also sanctiones the entire state of the landlords' circles. He doesn't force anyone to do anything. Wheels existing so far under the previous law may continue to exist if members or members, because men may also belong to the circles, make such a decision. If in one village there are so far different circles of rural housewives, on the basis of acquired rights they can also function in the number in which they function, i.e. there will be as many as there is, as it will want to register under the new law. When it comes to creating new circles in those places where there have been no circles of country hostels so far, of course we want one wheel not to create artificial rural divisions. Circle is supposed to be an institution, an organization that integrates the villagers, not an organization that divides them. because of the ambitions of local leaders or in order to obtain additional aid due to division. The process of recording the wheels takes place in the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and I must say that during these last few days it is done in a rhythmic manner. I am aware that both the decisions of the existing circles, which would like to register, as well as the gathering of residents of those places where there have not been so far, are a process of some kind. I expect it to last, maybe even months. This organization doesn't happen immediately by shooting fingers like that. It takes some thought, but it's happening. Ladies and gentlemen, according to data from yesterday's 458 existing groups of rural housewives registered. And what's especially important: in the places where the wheels haven't been, 600 new wheels have been created, which have applied for registration. So 1058 wheels are currently participating in the registration process. [[Applause]] It shows that all those who said that this is a humbug, that this is something artificial, created by the Law and Justice for election purposes, were wrong. There's a lot of demand. In the following weeks, in December, January and February next year, this process will continue. There are, of course, some interpretation issues, and I would be the first one to... Besides, I made such a declaration that if it becomes more difficult to interpret the provisions of this law within a few months, we will report an amendment, but that is what happens. We are creating completely new legal solutions that will only be verified in practice. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has also created a special website where the answers to questions asked by the ladies who have come to register are provided by the district attorneys who are to provide assistance. There is an explanation concerning the principle of simplified accounting, as well as the fact that the wheels do not pay taxes, if it is intended for statutory activities of the wheels, that ladies who have so far functioned in some wheels may remain in them, as well as the principles: one wheel - one village in the case of those places where so far there have been no wheels. On the other hand, where there were circles - supposedly there are very long towns in the south of Poland, so long that these circles partially shared, because of the area of the village - where we respect, honor and these activists, those ladies who want to pursue their aspirations in life, carry out many wonderful, wonderful activities related to culture and health, lifestyle, culinary traditions and everyone else, can carry it out. This bill makes it so much easier. First of all, the wheels cease to be a patent with anyone, become a legal entity, including those that already had legal personality in the form of an association, because some of the wheels were freed from the dictation of agricultural circles and formed associations. It's the law that stays. These associations only apply for registration. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They don't need a new legal personality at this point anymore, they just apply for registration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u7	Thank you, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u8	Dear Marshal! Minister! Indeed, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, economical and wonderful women, said, the law on financial support for the groups of rural hostesses is of great interest, as the Minister confirmed just moments ago. Simple legal personality opens the way for funding from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, the Ministry of Development, municipal authorities, national and European funds. Indeed, I am also getting signals of misinformation, as the Minister also mentioned, and I would like to ask the Minister to answer the question: What are the specific responsibilities of the representatives of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, who deal with the issues of the rural hostels' circles?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u9	Thank you. Please respond to Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Yes, this disinformation is taking place, I mentioned it, which is why the precise actions of the county offices are primarily intended to help to discern in the meansdras of the bill. Those plenipotentiaries who are trained by both the restructuring and modernisation agency, their parent organisation, as well as the ministries, correspond to and help the ladies, are some kind of guides or guardians of the process. First, if the wheel is re-created, they shall indicate how to prepare the statutes. This applies to every organization. There are also no particular difficulties here, because there is a model statute, how to conduct an initial meeting, how to fill out documents - it is not particularly complicated, but also in this matter this district attorney will provide information - how to submit them to obtain registration, how to contact the tax office in the case of this simplified accounting proposed by the Ministry of Finance. So this proxy is a friendly, kind person, whose job is to help everyone, each group that comes forward and expects help. You also mentioned the rights of the hostess's circles earlier. As far as this founding group is concerned, this group, which will already operate in the future as a wheel authority, will receive free legal assistance if it has significant legal problems with the understanding of the provisions of both the appointing law and the tax legislation, the rules relating to the conduct of business or others. So the point is that there should be no barrier to understanding these rules. There is a kind of problem that may need to be clarified by the Minister of Finance. It turns out that some banks - I am extending the question - treat the activities of hostel circles as an economic activity and expect to keep a monthly fee account. This is a misunderstanding. It is a social organisation for local communities, and as such it should benefit from the free running of an account. I will signal this case to the Ministry of Finance - and I am convinced that Minister Czerwińska already knows it - in order to also clarify these doubts raised by the banks. We also want to expand the information campaign. It won't just be the agency itself. She's got a lot of other payments issues right now with money when it comes to drought. On the other hand, we also want to involve agricultural advisory centres very strongly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In connection with this help, a hint for all the ladies in the country. I'd like to say hello to them very cordially. Happy birthday. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u11	Thank you, Minister. Another question on the principles of the valorisation of pensions in 2019 will be asked first by Mrs Teresa Wargock.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Over three years, the Law and Justice Government has consistently sought to improve the situation of pensioners and pensioners. In 2016, one-off cash allowances were paid to certain pensioners, pensioners and beneficiaries of pre-retirement benefits, pre-retirement benefits, bridge pensions or teacher compensation benefits. The amount of the allowance depended on the amount of the benefit, ranging from PLN 50 to PLN 400 net. As a result of the government's actions last year, the benefits for around 1110 000 were increased. pensioners who receive benefits from the Social Insurance Institution and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. In the same year it was guaranteed that the benefit increase would be higher than if it had been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules. In 2018, pensions increased by 2.98%. which meant one of the higher increases in benefits in recent years. Dear Minister, I would like to ask what the government wants to propose to pensioners as part of next year's valorization, which will take place from 1 March 2019?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u13	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for these questions on a very important issue. The Law and Justice Government has attached and attaches great importance to improving the situation of the eldest from the outset. In this group, of course, there are people like pensioners and pensioners. As you have already said, in the last three years there has been, on the one hand, this legal valorisation, and on the other hand, there have been issues which meet these expectations to improve the situation, especially those with the lowest incomes. So in 2016 there was this one-time supplement in addition to valorization, it is the amount of PLN 50 to 400. In 2017, however, it is also worth recalling the increase of the lowest benefit to PLN 1000, which amounted to over 1100 thousand. pensioners. This year pensions have increased by 3%, which is also a significant increase. And consistently also in 2019 it is assumed to improve the situation by valorizing for all pensioners, especially those with the lowest incomes. Therefore, it can be said that this proposal from 1 March 2019 will be a value-percent benefit. This, too, has repeatedly been stressed that it is worth raising the lowest benefits, so that those shears that occur at the time of valorization do not expand. Hence such proposals, we proposed for 2019. The first point is to increase the lowest benefits up to PLN 1100 in the case of the lowest pension, total incapacity pension, survivor's pension and social pension and to PLN 825 in the case of the lowest partial incapacity pension. In this case we are talking about the amount of the lowest benefit, which must increase by 70 PLN. This is the key change - each lowest benefit must increase by PLN 70, that will apply to all benefits that do not exceed the amount precisely PLN 2147.30. If someone has a pension at the level of PLN 2147, then this valorization will be at the level of PLN 70, i.e., by counting for the whole year, it can be said that it is PLN 840 as if annually, from March of course. This is very important. At the same time, we maintain the valorization rate of 103,26%, that is the general valorization that applies to everyone. How does this translate into groups? This valorisation rate is 103,26% plus these 70 PLN will cover 6,27 million insured, including what is important, 61% collecting benefits from the CSO and all recipients of benefits from the CRUS, as well as all persons who receive social benefits, benefits and pre-retirement benefits. If we did not apply this mechanism at the level of 70 PLN, only a normal valorisation mechanism at the level of 103,26%, then for this amount at the level of 70 PLN it would be less than 30 PLN, i.e. a significant decrease for this reason. This can be given as a percentage: this increase in pensions by 70 zlotys is an increase in benefits by more than 6,82% for 3.26% in respect of this basic amount. These are the important changes that will enter into force from 1 March 2019. As I said, we care very much about it, and we are doing it consistently to increase the lowest benefits for the poorest pensioners. This group I'm talking about right now is going to be a little bit wider in this case, because it's going to include, as I said, over 60%. Retirement and pensioners. We are aware that here there is a need for these benefits to increase, hence the consistent policy of the Government of Law and Justice to make such adjustments with annual valorisation rules so that these lowest benefits are increased. This valorization, as I call it, meets this condition in terms of percentage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u15	Thank you. Additional questions are asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u16	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The introduction of the 500+ supplement has largely eliminated poverty in families of many children, the notebooks in shops have disappeared, but now the poorer group are pensioners. The amounts of the lowest pensions are now playing a particular role in combating poverty and social exclusion. How did the lowest pension and pension increase, as if the Minister were polite to present, in recent years? How many more times would I ask, the Minister said this, this difference, this increase next year will be? Once again, I wanted to stress that this is going to be raised next year, and I wanted to thank you very much for it, because it's not a one-time supplement, it's going to be permanent for pensioners, so any further valorization will be added, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that amount will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u17	Thank you, Member. I'm asking for an answer from Minister Stanislaw Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u18	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! To answer this question directly - of course we are talking about the lowest pension, which is currently 1100 PLN. We started governments in 2015 and if we are talking about the 2016 amount, this amount was 882 PLN, which is here is a significant increase. In 2008 it was 636 PLN. So this difference is, as far as the minimum benefit is concerned right now, significant, I would say. Of course, for those who receive this benefit, there is always a problem here, but 1029 PLN in 2018 is the lowest amount of pension, in 2019 it will be the amount of 1100 PLN. So this 70 zloty is guaranteed, and the valorization factor is over 100% in this case, you can say, because 70 zlotys at the lowest is 6,82%. for 3,26, by 100% The indicator is higher. As you have also rightly pointed out, this is not a one-off allowance, it is already entering the pension permanently, which is that this amount will be available every month and, of course, also translates into a higher benefit. So that these amounts are, according to our calculations, significant, there is an improvement here. It must also be said, that I have not said this yet, that the total cost of the total valorization for 2019 is PLN 8400 million. In relation to this original version, if we accept this without this amount of PLN 70, we have an additional 1.5 billion more funds for valorization. In the budget plan, the first one, it was 6200 million PLN, now it is 8400 million PLN, which is 1.5 billion more is allocated precisely to these lowest benefits, i.e. to this increase in the order of 70 PLN. Of course, in this mechanism, because there were also such voices that maybe we won't have time for the ZUS to have any trouble paying... I can assure all pensioners that there will be no problem with the payment, that on 1 March all benefits will be, also those benefits which will result from the value of the amount-percent, i.e. benefits at the lowest level of 70 PLN and gradually higher for those who have higher incomes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u19	Thank you. We move on to the next question, questions about the drastic rise in electricity prices and the compensation system financed by taxpayers and energy companies. The first question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski and Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u20	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The dramatic rise in prices is a fact, it is not just a media announcement. Local authorities have already seen this, whose energy companies have increased their energy purchase prices by almost 70%. This will actually spread to every field of life of Poles. The raises are supposed to touch all Poles. You can say that you already confirmed this on December 10th. a conference at which you presented the need to set up a compensation fund for the rise in electricity prices. And here's the question: What happened that you changed the name of this fund from Friday to Monday, because on Monday you announced that the fund would be called the Energy Efficiency and Compensation Fund? Minister! Basic question: What will be the rise in energy price in the context of applications submitted by energy companies to the President of URE? What does it really look like, and what is the name of this compensation fund? You might ask, Minister, who oversees these coal companies? Because on the one hand, they are applying for an increase in energy prices, and on the other hand, as we hear it, they are supposed to compensate for the increases themselves. And last question: Minister, who's gonna make money from this? Who and what are the Poles going to finance?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u21	Mr. Piotr Nowak. You have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u22	Minister! What happened that yesterday at the meeting of the Energy and Treasury Committee you said that the increases would be made, and then the Prime Minister announced that these increases would not be made, and you said shortly after the premiere that the companies would withdraw the tariff applications in the URE? Is this a political or economic action? Is it simply that you are afraid of what will happen before the parliamentary elections? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think about the economy or the election?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u23	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Minister of Energy Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, those who say that this debate is a debate on anticipation are right, because the tariff is approved by the President of the URE and the actual response and presentation of the programme can take place only after the approval of the tariffs by the President of the URE. We are therefore preparing for this, taking into account the analysis of the proposals submitted, taking into account all the forecasts of what is happening on the market. It is no wonder, then, that if you are pressed by journalists, by Members of the opposition, by Members of your own club, because the atmosphere is tense in relation to energy prices, it is said in terms of the predictions we have. To answer from this place, I can say that we are trying to have a few options so that, ultimately, after the approval of tariffs, after what will happen in relation to the real situation which forces us to have external circumstances... Because I would like to say in the beginning that, because of these external conditions, the current opposition, had electricity prices in 2012 and 2013, in terms of those that were approved by the President of the URE, in the amount of PLN 282.40. Today we are talking about growth forecasts, which result from the proposals submitted to the President of the URE. They amount to approx. 300 PLN. So the increase compared to the prices that were in those years, at the time of your rule of law, is approx. 6 [[And in 2015?]] In 2012 and 2013. In 2015, these prices were higher than current prices, as in 2015. - I give you - these prices were at the level of approx. 255.260 PLN. Today these prices are at the level of PLN 240 if we take 2018. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Impossible.]] What I'm trying to say right now is that speaking of it, I don't think of it as any success of ours or of yours at all. It is simply from the point of view of the price of raw materials, the initial materials at the moment were such conditions, and we have added to this some efficiency in management and economic efficiency. So if we are talking about these conditions today, we can say what we can do and how we can react. And we want to respond pro-socially, because we are a party that meets social expectations, and all the time since the beginning of our governance, we strive to make society better and to make social costs less and less. So from this point on, I would like to stress by answering the first part of the question that was asked that the level of tariffs will only be approved, today we can only predict this on the basis of knowledge of what is happening, from relationships that are available as relations in energy companies. We in the Ministry have assessed possible increases in electricity prices for e.g. projection of the compensation budget I was talking about. This project was most thoroughly prepared and prepared, but we also have other options that are being discussed after the President's decision. Therefore, if we are talking about how we are dealing with the planned increase in costs for Polish farms for the purchase of electricity, I remind you that the scope of the compensation programme I presented at the conference on 10 December, I spoke about this in the first part of our Energy Committee meeting, I very carefully presented to you what it looks like. So from all these actions it appears that the case is clear that the electricity bill in Polish households will not increase in 2019 compared to 2018. [[Applause]] And that's clear, that's what I stick to in all my speeches. Speaking of options, how do we do that, I'm going to say that at the end we're going to define this in the bill that I'm talking about. I do not present this law because I cannot present it, as I do not know the final value of the energy price which will be determined on the basis of applications submitted to the President of the URE. These are things analysed, companies are asked for further requests. So we have a situation like this. The situation is also something that I would like to inform you that in the years 2008 and 2010 the minimum wage in Poland could be paid 10 and 11 monthly energy bills, and in the years 2016 and 2018 this number of bills is already 19 and 20, i.e. close to 100% more electricity bills our citizen pays for monthly revenues than he paid a few years before. If we look at it this way, it also turns out that such harsh accusations that are being brought against us here, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to me personally, however, are a form of demagogy, however to say. But once again, I would like to point out that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u25	Minister, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u26	...the final solutions will be presented to you after the decision of the President of the URE. We have several options here, but each of them assumes that the annual household electricity charge will not increase in 2019 compared to 2018. And this is a declaration that I make with full responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u27	Thank you. The additional question is asked by Mr Zdzisław Gawlik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! One thing. Referring directly to this statement, I would like to remind you that the wholesale price of electricity on the Freight Exchange in 2014 is PLN 150.155. How much do we have today? 300 zlotys too. So much for the details. In contrast to the current government made investment decisions - Opole, Kozienice, Jaworzno - and the price paths were already built at that time. Minister! The argument that the price of energy will not increase with your reservation that the price for the G tariff will be determined by the President of the URE, is at least in contradiction with the statement made by the Prime Minister and your current one. You say that the prices will not increase, and in the first sentence you say that these prices will eventually be set by the president of URE. Someone's coming in front of the line. You'd just have to decide what we really want, because the worst part is this space, this disinformation that can fill the space between, I don't know, the North Pole. and the south. So what about these energy prices? What about energy prices for entrepreneurs and local government units that decide on energy supply procedures? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for these answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u29	Thank you. Please respond to the Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! Membership! I would like to make it clear that I am talking about the response to State aid granted to our households, depending on what tariff the President of URE will set. And there's no interference. This tariff will be fixed by the President of the URE. On the other hand, it is a question of how we will respond to this in terms of whether it is compensation or our other solutions that we are preparing, related to the support of our households, but also entrepreneurs. After all, in the previous statements and in the committee meeting, I stressed that we are trying to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises also have a compensated possible increase which will take place. And small and medium-sized enterprises account for more than 97% enterprises in Poland. So we're saying that almost 97% companies in Poland, small and medium-sized enterprises, will already have this situation. We do everything to ensure that they have an appropriate system of compensation, whether in the form of compensation or even another, because other options are still being considered, as I say, so as not to be unambiguous. We were still preparing for compensation, we are prepared for compensation, but other solutions are possible and we think about them. I want to make it clear not to be constantly caught by the word, because we're all talking, and the state, and we're talking about predictions. That's the basic thing. On the other hand, we are also thinking about helping local governments. After all, local governments are already half the state management system, or more. So we're thinking about it, too. It's not like we're just focusing on one thing. However, what is the foundation of all this for us, these are households, this is the existence of our families, the existence of our citizens. It is our duty, all parliamentarians, that their standard of living in Poland grow and that we see some perspective to align with other countries in the European Union. For this purpose we introduced 500+, introduced all kinds of other benefits. If necessary, they will also happen in this situation so as not to make our households, our families worse. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: So, Minister, the Prime Minister lied yesterday.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u31	Thank you very much. Another question, on financial support for the creation of centres of support for people with intellectual disabilities and their families co-financed by European Union funds, to the Minister for Family, Labour and Social Policy. Ms Agnieszka is the first question to be asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Małopolska - but not only in Małopolska - an opportunity appeared, but it is also an opportunity that can be wasted. The EU funds under the operational programmes after 2 years were allocated to the organisation of the Centre for the Support of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities and Their Families in Strzeżów and the Centre for the Support of the Therapy of Persons with Disabilities and Their Families in the Keys. This is a chance for professional support for a total of 240 families with disabilities. The money that is available for this task comes from the operational programme fund. Each of these projects, which is implemented by the Polish Association for People with Intellectual Disabilities, one branch in Wolbrom, the other branch in Miechów, gained first, each of them, at about 150 thousand. for the implementation of the technical project, and then received a grant of 4.5 million, while the entire procedure in the voivodship lasted quite long, because almost 2 years. Unfortunately, at that time the prices on the market have changed in terms of construction services, and none of these organisations is able to implement with the money they have received, these projects, so if they do not receive support and we do not help, and the state will not try to help them in the amount of about 2 million 100 in total for these two projects, these centres will not arise and these 9 million from the European Union will simply be lost. And that is the question - because this is an example from Małopolska, but there are more such places in Poland - whether the government can, can it plan, is there any chance to support the implementation of these two innovative projects, very innovative, such as in which really these children, adults and their families will receive professional support, implemented for many years and really very high levels. My question is whether the government can [[♪ The bell ♪]] Think about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u33	Thank you, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! There is a problem when it comes to the direct answer to this question, because in our ministry this project was not known, it did not pass through our ministry. So briefly I got acquainted with the very good activities of the association - they operate there and WTZs, and probably education centers, because it is a question of raising and teaching children, so that it is a very good centre that helps and works for people with intellectual disabilities. What we can already propose directly, that is, what is within the competence of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, are the support units under the social assistance system, i.e. those individuals which are the result of this in terms of DPS, and this is the first issue related to it. Of course, there are different DPS units here, both for children and young people with intellectual disabilities, as well as for support centres for people with mental disorders, for type A, type B, type C disabilities - all those units that function. According to the Social Assistance Act, running and developing the infrastructure of support centres for people with mental disorders, i.e. environmental self-help homes and self-help clubs for people with mental disorders, is a task commissioned from the field of government administration, carried out by municipal or district government. And here we can commission these issues. According to the above, the conduct of the SDS by a non-governmental organisation, e.g. the association is only possible at the request of the municipality, the county, if they consider that the provision of such services in their territory is necessary and will have the operation carried out. Only in this situation is it possible to apply for funds from the State budget. The execution of the order in question may take place in a facility owned by a municipality, district or private body, where the grant from the State budget cannot be used for the extension of the organisation's assets and in particular for the construction of an object which would constitute the property of a private entity. An organisation wishing to set up such an entity may apply for State funding under the rules laid down in the Public Finance Act. The financial resources from the special reserve of the State budget at the disposal of the Minister for Social Security may be used both to build a new environmental facility for self-help homes and to renovate or adapt an existing building for the purposes of the SDS, to purchase the environmental equipment of the house for self-help and to finance the new sites in these units on a daily basis. However, investments with significant financial expenditure are not financed due to the limited resources from the State budget reserve. Grants from the state budget reserve for the development of a network of support centres for people with mental disorders are primarily intended to eliminate the so-called "deficiencies." white spots, that is the creation of environmental self-help homes in counties where such centres do not yet function. And what we see in this area is the issue of the Marshal's office, the programmes that are now in the Marshal's offices, because in accordance with the Regulation of the Minister for Social Policy on determining the tasks of the local government, which can be financed by the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, the funding can be allocated to entrepreneurs or non-business entities engaged in rehabilitation of persons with disabilities for a period of at least 2 years prior to the submission of the application, if they fulfil the following conditions: they are property owners or perpetual users or have been for at least 1 year before the date of submission of the application for the financing of works and are still holders of part or all of the property, they will document possession of own resources or obtained from other sources, they will present permits, etc. If the applicant is an entrepreneur, the amount of the grant may not exceed 30% of the cost of the task, if it is not an entrepreneur, the amount of the grant may not exceed 50% of the cost of the task. Pursuant to that Regulation, an application for funding should be submitted to the marshal's office at the appropriate place of execution by 30 November. We do not know whether this application was submitted to the marshal's office or not. As I said, if this facility were to come to our ministry in concrete terms, we could be of assistance when it comes to trying to find a solution. But I think that the first point is to ask the Marshal's office again in this respect, asking whether there is a possibility of funding here, whether it would be possible to use this reserve of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u35	Thank you. The additional question is asked by Mr Józef Brynus.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The problem is that the path you're proposing has already been exhausted. On the other hand, such initiatives cannot be wasted because there is no way to raise funds under those rules that you quoted, because environmental social houses... We were asking something else. We were just asking about the centres of support for people with disabilities. This is a completely different kind of activity. The problem is that it is about not only showing empathy but also indicating the possibility of obtaining funds. What you quoted under the rules is a completely different type of activity. I have this question: Would it not be possible to obtain funds from even this solidarity fund which the Sejm has adopted? Are there any decisions on what the money from this fund will go to? In this particular case, the money will be lost. [[♪ The bell ♪]] because of the path you're proposing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u37	Thank you, sir. The question will be answered by Minister Stanisław Szwed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u38	Like I said, this project doesn't go through our ministry. We don't have the full knowledge you're talking about today. I declared that if the association turned directly to us, we would show the way. As I said, according to my opinion, you can try to use the budget reserve. I've quoted those rules that we're moving through. Today, if we do not have other options under the rules, it is difficult for me here to declare to you that we are able to help in this particular case. As far as the Solidarity Fund is concerned, the proposals for using this fund will be presented to you in the near future. Whether there's gonna be a co-financing path, I'm not gonna say right now, because there's no final shape here yet. But I declare that if the association turns to our ministry, we will seek a solution so that, and here, full agreement as to the achievements of this association, it is possible to continue. Thank you. [[Thank you. We were actually looking forward to this declaration. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min 53 hours 10 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 11 of the agenda. The next question is on the functioning of the electronic toll collection system - viaTOLL and the planned significant increase in service costs. the system, in connection with the acquisition of management by the Chief Road Transport Inspector. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The viaTOLL electronic toll collection system provides our country with revenue from the use of roads which are later developed, renovated, in principle built on funds from this system, those which are borne by those who use it when they move our roads. And this system, which was operated by a private company, could be said to have worked perfectly. He brought over PLN 10 billion to our country during the period of operation, while a few months ago the Ministry decided to de facto nationalise the collection system, transfer this responsibility to the state institutions. At that time, the Modern made amendments that gave some opportunity: in the event that the State could not do so, it would be possible to entrust it directly to a private company, a private operator. We assumed that a private operator would do it better, cheaper, faster, etc. Therefore, I have questions to the Minister about this new system placement: How much will the cost of service increase? Is it true that in previous budget laws it was around 250 million and now there are 800 million? Is it true that if this agreement had not been signed with the private operator, the State would have lost billions of zlotys because the institutions that were designated would not have been able to fulfil this obligation alone? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many roads have not been covered by this system...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u41	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Chodkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, corresponds.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u42	...in connection with this confusion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u43	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to start by pointing out that the decision to take over overall control of the National System of Charges by the State is one of the elements of the strategy of sealing the tax system, in which implementation had an important role in the entry into force of the Law of 9 March 2017 on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road. The implementation of a solution providing for the right to collect electronic tolls and tolls by highway to the main road transport inspector allows the concentration of all competences relating to KSPOs within a single government body. It is therefore currently responsible for the functioning, day-to-day maintenance, operation and development of the KSPO, as well as for verifying the regularity of payment of the electronic fee, as well as the imposition and collection of financial penalties for infringements of the obligation to pay the electronic fee. The solution is beneficial for the public finance sector as it eliminates the risks associated with each procurement procedure for the operation or modernisation of the system. The risk of not ensuring continuity in the collection of fees or of paying high investment expenses for the upgrading of systems is also limited when the new contractor seeks to implement its own technological solutions. The public party therefore avoids the risk of technological monopolization in this area. It is also worth noting that the order for a comprehensive operation of the system to an external entity deprives the public of detailed knowledge and control of the use of data that may be necessary to perform other public tasks. At the same time, the supervision and control of the Minister responsible for transport was strengthened over the body carrying out the collection of road charges on roads managed by the State. August 28th this year The main road transport inspector has signed an agreement with the Institute of Communications - the State Research Institute for the performance of a public contract concerning the provision of a service of taking over the operation of the electronic toll collection system. It is an institution under the supervision of the Minister for Digitalisation. The agreement is short-term, and its main objective, in addition to the adoption of the system, which has already been achieved, is to ensure continuity of revenue from KSPO to the National Road Fund. The Institute of Communications shall have the right to conclude the necessary subcontracting agreements in areas which require external expert support. It is worth noting here that as part of the agreement already concluded by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways with Kapsch consortium for the design and delivery of the National System for the Collection of Electronic Charges and the manual collection of fees, Kapsch had over 70 subcontractors. With a direct reference to the increase in the cost of handling the electronic collection system, it is worth pointing out that they currently amount to 222 684 000 in the year. net. This amount, Mr President, is virtually slightly lower, is practically equal to the amount received by Kapsch. On a scale of 27 months, and thus until the duration of the GITD agreement with the Institute of Communications, these costs will amount to 385 million net. The agreement is concluded for 27 months, with the possibility of shortening this time to 21 months in case of success and faster implementation of the new system. Then we would have saved around 76 million on this operation. With regard to the data that you have operated, these are data that relate to the National Road Fund, which also provides for the extension of the system. This money, this larger amount is intended for expansion. It's not just functioning, it's expanding the system. Mr President, the Member has also added up the overall budget of the GITD, and GITD is a larger institution than just a fee collection institution, because there is a whole bunch of inspectors working there. So that today we have virtually the same costs, with the possibility of saving in case of faster implementation of the new system. I would also like to say that for 2019 a larger amount is reserved in the budget of GITD, as the charges for the construction of the new system will already enter into force. Thus, the amounts appearing in media communications often do not relate solely to planned expenditure on the national toll collection system in 2019 but constitute sums consisting of both the financing of the toll collection system and the current functioning of the Main Road Transport Inspectorate to the rest of the scope. So that this amount will also finance salaries for inspectors, CANARD inspectors, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u45	Thank you very much. And a supplementary question - also Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It's very interesting what you said, and I'd like to ask. First, is it because it is part of the State's tax system sealing, that the State has lost some resources due to the operation of the system by the previous operator? What were the measures, if you are sealing, and will you therefore ask the existing operator for a refund of these measures? Because I understand that if this is an element of sealing, it means that there was an outlet. I would also like to ask who, in accordance with these new agreements that have been concluded, is obliged to cover losses in the event that the system is not available, is not functioning. So far it has been so that Kapsch, which served it, had this included in the contract, i.e. covered the costs of losses. My question is, who is covering them today? I would also like to ask you whether it is true that you are thinking of making this system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which cost...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u47	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u48	...a few billion zlotys, just throw it in the trash. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u49	Thank you very much. You've run out of time. Mr Marek Chodkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as system sealing matters are concerned, we are not saying that the previous system was leaky and money was coming out of it. We are talking about this in terms of the tightness of the system, that this system can be accessed by all state tax institutions. or the enforcement of discipline on the roads. So that in this context we are talking about sealing the tax system. The Institute of Communications is responsible for this in terms of possible losses. He will unfortunately have to cover these losses, of course, with adequate insurance, so it is a insured system. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the Chamber: Budget Unit.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u51	Thank you very much. Another question, on gasification of municipalities in Poland, is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz and Mr Waldemar Andzel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u52	Dear Marshal! Minister! Unfortunately, many municipalities in Poland are not gassed or have ungassed areas of the city. It is estimated that there are still about 1.5 thousand in Poland. municipalities without access to the gas network. The lack of full gasification is a major obstacle in any municipality or part of it today, if any. It is perfectly understandable that gasification of Poland is a task that should be a priority, but it is also a huge task for the Ministry. Unfortunately, by neglecting previous governments, PO-PSL governments, your ministry faces a huge challenge. I would therefore like to ask how the Ministry intends to reach as many municipalities in Poland as possible with gasification.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have an additional question. Will greater gasification not make us more dependent on the supply of gas from Russia and how other suppliers of gas to our country are possible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u54	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Energy, replies.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for bringing this up in your questions, because recently, as you know, we have announced a program that is really going to gas our localities, those that are so far not covered by the gas supply, and we can say that the programme that has been created for us to start some work in Poland, intensively, coordinated and in many areas, in order to be able to deal effectively with the problem of contaminated air, is a major challenge. In Poland, about 3 million single-family homes still use different types of fuel for heating, not necessarily organic fuels, although we already have the Fuel Quality Act for coal, but this challenge remains. This in turn affects air pollution, contributes to significant air pollution, and is one of the main causes of smog formation at the time we are at present, which is at the end of the year, when we have colder periods when there are lower temperatures. Natural gas, as we know, is a low-carbon fuel that can be successfully used to promote air improvement and combat harmful dust. For this reason, one of the activities of the Ministry of Energy is among others. promoting the use of healthier sources of heating for the public as well as the role of natural gas as one of the most important elements of this system. We are making systematic efforts to increase the availability of gas in new areas by expanding the gas system and facilitating access to it. Investment in the modernisation of the existing gas distribution network and the construction of a new gas distribution network are an important priority of the current government's energy policy. In mid-October, Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski announced that the investments in the expansion and modernisation of the gas distribution network, led by the national operator of the distribution network of Poland's gas company, will be greatly accelerated thanks to our efforts. The consistent fiscal policy pursued by the current government, as we all know, has caused PGNiG to allocate additional funds to increase investment in gas networks. Officially in October, by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski was announced in Halinów. It will be implemented by the Polish Gas Company in the years 2018 to 2022. The programme plans to build about 5 thousand. km of the new distribution network and more than 32 thousand. new gas connections and the removal of system constraints, as well as the expansion of high pressure pipelines with an estimated length of over 600 km. Thanks to such support they are to disappear, and will disappear, from the map of Poland further ungasified areas. By 2022, a total of 300 new municipalities will have access to natural gas thanks to PSG activities. For example, when it comes to the least gasified voivodship, in the Podlaskie voivodship it is planned to gasify 26 communes, in Łódź 44, in Kujawsko-Pomorskie 16, in Pomorskie 22, in Warmińsko-Mazurskie 16 communes. According to the declarations of the President of PGNiG SA until 2022 nearly 90% Polish citizens will live in gasified municipalities. The purpose of our actions is the well-being of the inhabitants. We want them to live in a healthier and more friendly yet safe environment. All of our actions and decisions are driven by the desire to make it easier for citizens to make decisions that are environmentally beneficial, and therefore for our common good. We want to enable faster economic development in line with the Responsible Development Plan. Wide gasification will also improve air quality, and in economically underdeveloped areas it will stimulate economic prosperity and compensate for development differences. This will be a huge opportunity for municipalities and local authorities to attract investors and economic development. Our plans - I mean the Ministry of Energy - confirm the project submitted for consultation by the State's energy policy until 2040. Secure and diversified supplies of natural gas to the country can be the basis for building energy security. Therefore, Poland pursues an ambitious policy of diversification of gas supply, but also realistic. From this point of view, I would like to stress that the Baltic Pipe project - and this is the answer for Mr Andzel, who asked whether it was prudent or not to increase the supply that we are currently receiving in accordance with the agreement - is being carried out in accordance with the agreed timetable and there are no delays in this regard. Investment consents on the Polish and Danish side were issued and the Polish-Danish intergovernmental agreement was signed in Katowice during COP on Tuesday. Also according to the schedule is the expansion of LNG terminal in Świnoujście. Thank you very much for bringing up this topic, because it is a significant and historical programme that will definitely change rural areas. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u56	Thank you. The additional question is asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u57	Dear Marshal! The Minister spoke a lot about the gasification programme, the adoption of which deserves great recognition. We will be looking at its implementation. What legislation has the Minister of Energy passed in recent years to speed up gasification in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u58	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Energy, will reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In March this year Minister Tchórzewski signed a regulation on tariffs for natural gas. His goal is among others. faster development of the gas system and increased use of natural gas in the economy. The regulation is intended to make it much easier and easier to decide whether to join the gas network by potential customers for whom the cost of connection has so far been a financial barrier. In the first place, the Regulation exempts from the levying of connection charges for customers with a connection which they have not used so far. The regulation also makes it possible to reduce network connection charges for domestic customers living in areas for which air protection programmes have been adopted. The new rules also provide consumers with greater control over the consumption of natural gas. By extending the scope of information provided by gas undertakings, the customer can more consciously and cost-effectively manage gas consumption. 6 December this year The Sejm adopted a law which helped facilitate the development of gas distribution networks through cooperation with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology. The Act exempts from the need to obtain a decision to permit the construction of gas networks with a maximum working pressure of 0,5 MPa, which will significantly improve the expansion of the gas distribution network. As part of the Ministry of Investment and Development's work on the reform of the investment and construction process, we are conducting a dialogue on the introduction of facilitations in this process with regard to gas networks. We want to improve the administrative procedures that may constitute a barrier to the development of this programme and to regulate the issue of controlled zones, as well as to address the problem of locating networks on non-regulated immovable property. Once again, I would like to thank you very much for the questions that raised this issue. Think of this program as one of the most important programs. It is not only about the connection with the Clean Air programme, but also about the fact that this programme will definitely stimulate areas that are waiting for new investors, they need new investments. The aim is also to stimulate job creation, especially in rural areas, today less urbanised, to a lesser extent covered by the investment programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u60	Thank you. The next question on the opening of works on line 71 Ocice - Rzeszów related to its electrification and preparation of the schedule of track closures on this line for 2019, to the Minister of Infrastructure, is asked by Members Wojciech Buczak and Zbigniew Chmielowiec. Mr Buczak will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u61	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Our question concerns a very important railway line connecting Rzeszów and Warsaw. It is precisely about electrification of the line in the section Rzeszów - Ocice. November 16th this year during Congress 590 in Jasionka k. Rzeszowa was officially signed agreement between the management boards of PKP PLK and PKP Energetyka in the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure. This agreement assumes that the electrification of line 71 on section Rzeszów - Ocice will be carried out in 2019 and 2021. This work will be financed by the state budget. The cost is not so high, it is PLN 67 million. There will be a new traction on the 60 km section. For many years, self-government and parliamentarians have been working to ensure that these works have been carried out. This has now been met with the friendly approach of the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Polish government in general, as well as the management of railway companies. Thank you so much for that. But there's a question. 2019 right, right. Are these works real to be carried out? What are the preparations already made? In which month of 2019 will the electrification work of this line begin? Please answer the question, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u62	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Bittel corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen! Thank you very much for the question about electrification and timetable in connection with the start of work on railway line 71 Ocice - Rzeszów. I would like to start by saying that by 2023 the National Railway Programme, which implements the Government of Law and Justice, involves spending PLN 67 billion on a number of infrastructure investments in TEN-T corridors, including railway lines which need to be restored to the standard or where efforts need to be made to achieve a certain standard of electrification. Indeed, he is well informed, although I must clarify some nuances as in life. The agreement was concluded on 16 November 2018 for an amount of 67 million. The task is planned to be carried out in the design and construction mode between November 2018 and March 2021. It is implemented within the framework of the project "Work on the railway line No 71 Ocice - Rzeszów" financed by national funds, as the Member mentioned, whose total value is nearly PLN 120 million. Implementation is foreseen for the years 2016 to 2021. The aim of the project is to increase the transport offer, increase the reliability of rail transport services, improve the safety of rail transport. The project results will be as follows: increasing technical standards for lines, improving traffic safety, reducing negative environmental impacts, improving service quality, improving capacity. After the signing of the contract - it was really under exceptional conditions, because in Congress 590 - the contractor was obliged first to update the design documentation for the arrangement of supporting structures, also taking into account the location of the designed traction substations. After approval of the projects concerned, the contractor will start the construction works. Since one of the main tender criteria was to shorten the time of track closures, the contractor intends to mobilise all possible measures to carry out the entire length of the line at the same time in order to fulfil the task within the time specified in the contract and to meet the challenge indicated in its offer, which is to set the parameters for the execution of track closures for a period of 1500 hours in cycles of 10 hours per day. This is a very important element of this project that we have ahead of us. If I didn't run out of answers, then...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u64	Thank you. An additional question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have very short questions, so I would very much ask that the Minister no longer leave, waste of time. Has the schedule of track closures on line 71 in 2019 been prepared? At least this information is coming to me, and I'm very interested in it, because my hometown of Kolbuszowa is on this route, on line 71, which is to be electrified. Is it true that track closures on line 71 scheduled for 2019 have been cancelled? If so, what are the reasons for this?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u66	Thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Bittel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Affirmative. Originally, the contracting authority planned track closures from 3 March next year. On the other hand, after verification, after selection of the contractor and therefore verification of the schedule of work, after taking into account the maximum time of closure indicated in the offer by the contractor with whom the contract was concluded, the schedule was adjusted to carry out, first, non-closing works, i.e. the reconstruction of the electricity infrastructure collision. As a result, the timetable for action is as follows at this point in time. Commencement of the essential works is planned from July 2019. The track closures requested by the Member are planned for the following periods: from July 2019 to September 2019 for the first scope of the works, during this period the foundations of the traction beams and partially supporting structures will be carried out, and during March-April 2020 the completion of the works in the final phase of the construction of the traction substations will be completed. The termination of the electrification agreement in kind is scheduled for March 2021. And we assume that thanks to this operation, trains in electric traction will be able to drive on an electrified line according to the timetable for 2020 and 2021. In view of the fact that it is an extremely important parameter for the evaluation of the offer, i.e. shortening the closing time, we have the effect of a shorter closure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u68	Thank you. And we go to the next question about the problem of the use and processing of plasma obtained from blood donors and the absence of a national plasma fractionator to obtain blood products. The first question is asked by Mr Piotr Olszówka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u69	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! The problem of Polish blood has been going on for a long time. The WHO World Health Organization calls on the Polish government to secure an establishment that could process blood medicines on site. It is very pleasant in parliamentary work when we can support initiatives where blood is given by honorary donors. An ever wider arch is enveloping the circle of people who engage in this type of activity. Good. This year our Members' Offices, our e-mail boxes were blocked by people who have haemophilia. The problem of blood medicines, immunoglobulins and coagulation factors is wide-ranging. The availability of these drugs is difficult for patients with haemophilia. The Polish state pays about PLN 80 million a year, it is the cost of buying medicines from foreign manufacturers. So the question is, have you taken action to create a national blood fractionation plant? If such actions were taken, I would ask for information on the stage at which the work on this project is being carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u70	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Gadomski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u71	Dear Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to point out very briefly that plasma in blood treatment is currently also used for clinical purposes. Okay. 25%. plasma collected from honorary blood donors and subsequently processed by blood donation and blood treatment centres shall be transferred to medicinal products. And in fact, the remaining plasma surpluses are obviously not recycled today, this practice has happened before. Today there is a disposal of excess plasma, although it is worth noting that this is done in no case at the expense of patients requiring treatment with blood or its derivatives. The fact is, and it must be accepted that on the world market, because we are talking about the world market here, there are some problems - whether it's temporary or permanent - with access to blood products. First of all to albumin, to immunoglobulin, a little less to concentrate the coagulation factors that are used for the treatment of haemophilia. In fact, the problem of the Polish factionator or perhaps more widely: ensuring Poland's self-sufficiency in the field of blood medicines is actually a problem, one can say, probably already historical. Many works in this area began many years ago and over the last 15 years several attempts have been made to achieve self-sufficiency or partial self-sufficiency of Poland. Currently, at the Ministry of Health, but not only - may I clarify this - analytical work is underway to develop a suitable, effective and really optimal model for ensuring access to medicines from the point of view of Poland, because the construction of the factory itself is not the only possible solution. Today we are conducting an analysis in the Ministry of Health as part of a strategic project submitted to the Government Office for the Project Monitoring of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. These are the analyses of two variants or, you might say, two stages. Due to the fact that the construction of the factory is costly, it is a long-term process and is actually an extremely complex process from a technological point of view, but also from the point of view of placing the product on the market, from the point of view of registration of this product, we are looking at a step-by-step approach. In the first stage, it seems reasonable to consider introducing the possibility of using contractual supplies, i.e. simply transferring plasma taken from Polish honorary blood donors to one of the European factionators who will return, for our needs, blood-derived medicines. That's where we'd like to start. I hope that after the analysis phase has been completed... This year we are actually at the stage of playing, meeting at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Why the law firm? Because it is a project that involves a much wider group of stakeholders than the Ministry of Health. We are entering the competences of the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship. And at the level of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, we would like to take a decision on the stage, and the final decision on the further analysis of the process in relation to the establishment of the factory in Poland. On the side of the Ministry of Health, we are finalizing these preliminary analyses, those analyses that will allow us to decide also on the contract processing contract, because this is also an extremely complex process. A country much smaller than us - Slovenia, for more than two years has actually been working on this subject, perhaps based on all European institutions, including appeals. So we also want to prepare ourselves well for this and in order to define certain requirements that we care about and to ensure safety and transport and re-introduction of medicinal products. In this perhaps the least problem seems to be the adaptation of Polish legislation in this area, because we also need to change the law on public blood service. With regard to the appropriateness of the construction of the factory, this is a subject that we need to consider on two grounds: on the basis of self-sufficiency and security of Poland, because we are talking about a strategic resource such as blood medicines, and an analysis of cost-effectiveness. These analyses are now moving towards building a business model of this venture based on the Treasury's resources or possibly on a public-private partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u72	Thank you. The next question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u73	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland there are plants that have a license for plasma fractionation, and maybe we should go in this direction to use this possibility. I would add that the construction of plasma fractionation plants is strategic both for the national economy and for the safety of the country, and the use of national plasma resources would allow the protection of the Polish health and disease protection system in terms of the highest quality medicines. The Minister has already said that a wide-ranging analysis will be carried out in which direction it would be appropriate to go. But I would like to ask if the Ministry of Health is planning to implement legal and organisational solutions aimed at reducing Polish plasma trade and starting domestic production of plasma-based drugs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u74	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Gadomski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u75	Dear Marshal! Mr. Speaker! As I said, today one of the pharmaceutical or biotech companies in Poland has a limited licence, it needs to be made clear. This is not a license for all derivatives medicines, it is not even a license for most blood medicines in Poland. This is a limited license. This is one of the options for conducting analyses and some initial discussions with this company were conducted, although not directly by the Ministry of Health, but within the entire project. They have not been finalised and are still ongoing. I hope that as soon as these options are presented in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, they will be at the end of the discussion with this entity in terms of how its licence can be used. But we are also talking in parallel today with foreign entities that could grant such a licence to other entities or to a wider extent. This will be the result of this full analysis in this area. Today, we are not planning at this stage where we do not yet have a final decision on the stage or that a plasma fractionator will be created or at what time in Poland... Nor do we have a decision to limit the disposal of surplus plasma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u76	Thank you. We move on to another question about places in Poland where there is no cell phone coverage. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The range of mobile phones, we all know that, that's security. According to data from the Office of Electronic Communications, most areas where mobile telephony is difficult to use are located in Małopolska, Lower Silesia and Świętokrzyskie voivodships, but also in other regions, including the Silesian region. You can say that there is still much to do to eliminate the so-called list. white spots in Poland. The lack of cell phone coverage is a lack of communication to ensure security. Care should be taken to contact the emergency room and the fire department. I'm talking about this because these entities have approached me with this problem. And I have a question for the Minister. What is the result of the increasing lack of cell phone coverage in Poland? Is there a known percentage in terms of the number of people in our society, estimated to be affected by this problem? Next question. Did the Ministry of Digitalization take any action and have an idea how to eliminate it, and when it comes to communication issues, ensure the safety of Poles and really take action to eliminate white spots in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u78	Thank you. It corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitization, Mrs. Wanda Buk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u79	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Mrs. Member! Thank you so much for that question. Telecommunications operators must report each year to the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. On the basis of these reports, a report shall be drawn up each year. According to a report published in June this year in terms of population coverage, our country is covered in 100% 3G and 99.9% 4G/LTE network. 100% 4G range, in terms of population, offers one of the entrepreneurs, the others offer a slightly lower coverage. The lowest is 94.7% population. On the other hand, it does not look so optimistic in geographical terms anymore. Physical range of mobile networks shall be reported by spatial indication of address points within the technological range of the base stations. In this regard, it was pointed out that 2837 localities in Poland were deprived of their reach. This figure decreased by more than 8 percentage points compared to the previous year, because then it was 3080 localities. It should be emphasized here that these are very small settlement units bringing together several, several buildings. On the other hand, the figures on the coverage alone do not reflect the actual quality of services and for our citizens this quality is very often unsatisfactory. According to the Open Signal report of February this year, the average capacity of the LTE service in Poland was 20 Mbps. It's not enough. We are classified here as the 31st country in Europe. We're not satisfied with this. But I'll tell you what it's coming from. The whole problem is, of course, a comprehensive problem, which is affected by a number of factors. Among those that seem to be most crucial are, above all, geographical problems. You know, electromagnetic fields, electromagnetic waves travel just like light, so sometimes it's natural that if there's an obstacle, it's someplace darkened, which means we have to have a denser network of base stations. Many times the public does not want these base stations in the area of their place of residence because of their appearance, but it is also often so that the communities even want to set up base stations by operators. This is one of the objective geographical reasons. On the other hand, as far as regulation is concerned, we have two key factors here that, in our view, affect what it looks like to have access to mobile services today, and above all, they are standards in the field of electromagnetic fields. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland has outdated standards of electromagnetic fields, which dates back to 1984, are Soviet standards. We are one of three countries in Europe that have such standards. These standards are one hundred times more restrictive than those of the other countries of the European Union. It simply leads to the fact that the transmitters are clogging themselves. I am convinced that each of you has sometimes experienced a lack of coverage even in the centre of a big city - in the centre of Warsaw, in the centre of Krakow. This is one factor. The second factor is the regulation related to the investment process, which affects the investment of operators. According to our estimates, the average time of the investment process, the administrative process, the application for permission to set up a base station is 153 days. 12 different procedures are required here. These 153 days are the minimum time to assume that there are no appeals or protests in the process of applying for permission. I'll tell you what the Ministry of Digitalization is doing in this connection. At the beginning of December 2018, a draft law on amending the Law on Support for the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks and some other laws, so-called. It's a megalaw. In the framework of this legislative initiative, which is currently at the consultation stage, a number of investment facilitations have been prepared for telecoms operators. First of all, we decided to speed up the investment and construction process by clarifying construction law concepts and allowing the construction of new generation networks without building permits. We also propose to reduce the cost of construction and operation of modern networks by reducing the tolls for the occupation of the roadway. Today, the situation is that the maximum rates for taking 1 m of road lane on national roads are 20 PLN, while for other types of road - 200 PLN and often local authorities use it very willingly, which leads to the fact that sometimes a building is located 20 m from fiber optics, and yet the operator does not pay to run networks there. This is one of the proposed changes. And there's a number of other facilities that I'm not going to mention right now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause we're out of time. On the other hand, we recognise that the megalaw will respond to the concerns and expectations raised by the Member today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u80	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Elżbieta Duda.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u81	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! According to the report of the Social Communication Office, Małopolska is the leading member of the so-called list. White spots, which are locations where there's no cell phone coverage. This applies to more than 30 localities. This is a serious problem, not only for residents, but especially for tourists who are happy to visit Małopolska. I have a question about that. My question is about national parks, because it's a special area, a special area. Are specific solutions for such regions being prepared, e.g. height towers? If so, will the national park management accept such solutions? In this case, this is necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u82	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitization, Mrs. Wanda Buk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u83	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As I mentioned before, in the processed according to the megastag... The Mega Law itself points out, so far it has pointed out areas which have been excluded from the regulation, from those facilities which it granted to telecommunications operators. They were among them, for example. spa. Today we eliminate these restrictions because we know that mobile telephone coverage is also needed in such places. As you said, it is extremely important, above all for security reasons. I would remind you that yesterday, December 12th, an amendment to the Telecommunications Law came into force, which gave us new tools in the form of security alerts sent by the Government Security Center. On the other hand, as far as the question is concerned, namely the height of the towers, it is true that in this case the telecommunications operator and the investor design their network and must take into account all obstacles so that it is as efficient as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u84	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. The question about the nationwide protest of the employees of the general courts. The first question is asked by Mrs Joann Frydrych.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u85	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Minister, All over Poland there is a protest of the employees of the general courts. They protest both the Registrars of the Court and the Assistant Judges. Thousands of trials and court hearings are cancelled. Paralysis has already taken place in many appeals. For example, the District Court in Cracow states that in all areas the judicial staff have joined the protest. In Nowa Huta, 128 cases of vocabulary dropped to 93. Another example: Rawa Mazowiecka, where 83% the court staff are on sick leave. The courts in Crosne and Jasel are paralyzed. Wrocław district - 53% employees on sick leave. You, Minister, stated on Monday that the protest was not universal. Are you sure? The salaries of the employees in the courts are very low. The average salary of a judicial worker today does not exceed 3 000. gross zloty. People with many years of work, experience and higher education earn less than the national average. Employees who have decided to join the protest are threatened, threatened by failure to pay prizes, disciplinary dismissal, control of the CSO and termination of contracts. Plus, Minister, it comes in your subordinate units. Without administrative staff, there are no courts. We must say openly that what we are dealing with today is a paralysis of the judicial administration. In view of the situation, please answer: Does the Minister see the scale of the phenomenon? How will you solve the problem? Is there a planned increase in salaries of employees of the general courts? If so, how much and when? What actions will the Ministry take to ensure that there are no major delays in setting new court dates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u86	Thank you. Mr Michał Wójcik, Minister of State at the Ministry of Justice, will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u87	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for these questions, Commissioner. First of all, I want to make it clear that in courts, justice workers don't get grants, they get pay. Granty is something completely different, and that's what it says in the question. There's no disciplinary action, there's no blackmail, there's no intimidation, and as far as these thousands of cases are concerned, we've investigated this. I have meetings every day, video conferencing with the directors of the appeals courts, and I receive daily information about the situation. For example, because I will not list all 11 appeals, the Whitestock appeal, yesterday's information - 1814 cases, 90 cases dropped. Part of it fell because the judges just either get sick or they don't set trial. Don't smile, it's hard data. As far as the Łódź appeal is concerned, 4767 cases 1036 have fallen. That's about 20%. As far as the Szczecin appeal is concerned, 1629 cases 194 fell. As far as the crowd appeal is concerned, 192 cases fell on 921. As far as the Warsaw appeal is concerned, 132 cases fell on 1595 cases, even because of the absence of the judge. As far as the Krakow appeal is concerned, 2719 cases 410 have fallen. Katowice's appeal - 3239 cases 52 fell. What thousands are you talking about? There's no paralyzed justice. You'd like that paralysis. Let me put it this way: I could meet with the question of every opposition formation, Modern, Kukiz, anyone but you, because you have no right to discuss it, because when you were in charge... [[We have the right.]] You have no right. I'd like the employees today to know what the wage rate was growing when you were in charge. I will say this: 2011 - do you know how much? - zero, 2012 - zero, 2013 - zero... [[And for three years, how much?]] ... 2014 - zero, 2015 - zero. That's what they're... [[The Minister would have learned a little humility.]] ...the effects of your governments. In 2016, when law and justice began to rule, justice workers increased their salaries by an average of 10%. - 10%. The following year, salaries were increased by 1.3%. As regards 2018, the current year raises the remuneration by 2%, although in the budgetary sphere there was a frozen rate of wage growth. With regard to the budget law that we are currently looking at, it is likely that the Member has looked at the figures by 5%. The wage growth rate will be increased by 5%, which means twice as much as... [[When? When?]] Now, we're going to proceed on the bill right now, so it's going to be passed, and I hope it's going to be the votes of the state as well. When it comes to the whole budget sphere, it's 2.3%, which is twice as much as twice as much. So what are we talking about? Do you know why today is such a payday for justice workers? Because you didn't do anything. You can't jump in three years to raise your salary... [[He's been running the PiS for three years.]] ...because for five years...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u88	Mrs Augustynowska, if you are not interested in the answer, please do not disturb me, but go to the clowns. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: ...for five years, you've been freezing the indicator for six years. Zero was just paying off. When it comes to prizes, it is also a rather interesting situation. 2015 - you paid 50 million. Do you know how long it was last year? Over 130 million - two and a half times more. There will be a hundred and a half million this year - two and a half times more in terms of prizes. [[Well, I can't...]] And that translates specifically. Also... I am pleased that you cannot. I couldn't, either, if I was on the Platform and heard the data. Average monthly salary: 2015 for governments - 3698 gross, including allowances, including prizes. As for 2017, the end of the year, because we do not have current data - 4281 PLN, i.e. raised... [[Where do you get this data?]] Fifteen-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven. 15% Ever since you've finished your miserable reign. For other employees - 26%. As far as assistants are concerned, 17%. It's a very interesting thing. Assistants: in 2010 - PLN 3644 on average, in 2015 - PLN 3571, a real decrease of 2%, a fall in your governments. These are hard data. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I will say at the end: Yes, I sympathize with the judicial staff. These salaries are too low, I've talked about it many times. But you can't make up for 8 years of neglect in three years. It can't be done. You can't just, you can't physically. [[Less talk, more work.]] There's no court paralyzed. And I'd really like to ask the employees who... At first, thanking those who work, work every day, come, are very committed to justice, and I would very much like to ask those workers who are on sick leave today, and who would not have to use them - I hope there are no such ones - to end this form of protest. Justice is for society and society loses it, society. And on Monday, at the end of the day, your marshal, a meeting of a special task force that deals with completely new rules for the remuneration of justice workers. He's been operating for a few months. Thank you very much. [[So the protest is.]] Thank you. The additional question is asked by Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u89	I am pleased that the Minister has admitted that these protests are ongoing in the courts. I would like to ask you, not how many trials have fallen off the docket, but how many court officials are on sick leave today and how this dynamic of sick leave is growing. The workers announce that they will strike in such a formula until 21 December. You're talking about some raises. Question: "Who will be affected by these increases, in what formula, when they physically get more money, and how are you going to talk to these people?" So far, you're just saying they're making $4,000, which isn't true, because these employees are saying out loud that they're making $2.5,000. thousands that they get some wages only after years of service. It's bad, so I'd like to know exactly what number of employees are protesting in this form, and is it true that the ministry recommended... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u91	...employing a replacement contract.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u92	You answer Minister Michael Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u93	Did it recommend... [[Employee contract.]] Yeah, I'll start with that last question. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, because the justice system is the area to which people come to justice in various, very difficult situations, sometimes dramatic, and the courts must function. It is the responsibility of directors and governors to ensure the smooth functioning of all courts in Poland. It is normal that in a situation where there are indeed no workers, because it is an increased sick leave, it is the director's duty to look for different ideas to replace those workers who are sick at the time, others. That's why we sent a letter from the Ministry of Justice that you can actually accept people under contract. But it's not like you tell the media there's a catch. Well, it's about a situation where, for example, There's a contest for some position in court and the winner is first person, second person, third person - no. The point is that just the second, third or fourth person should take advantage of this possibility. And the second such situation - e.g. Yesterday's announcement of the District Court in Poznań, specific proposals were made and such people who will come forward will have to participate in the competition, so this is not a catch. What did we do? Madam, that is what we are doing in dialogue with trade unions, we are meeting. What I'm trying to say is that the next meeting will be on Monday. It was planned many weeks ago. This team is the chance for employees to finally be appreciated for the first time. But that's the amount of pay. This is your fault, yours, the Platforms. It was your inability that led to this. I showed you the hard data that unfortunately you didn't care about them. [[Voice from the room: 3 years.]] Anyone can ask themselves what it would be like if you returned to power. It would just be that you wouldn't be picking it up. Everybody knows that. [[But if you continue to rule so slowly, it won't work.]] Well, you had time, eight years to rule, and you didn't take care of these people. What I'm saying is that we're gonna have a dialogue...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u94	May I ask Members of the Civic Platform to remain calm?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u95	...with trade unions. However, I would like to say this at the end. [[Trade unions are on strike.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u96	Mrs Augustynowska, I am really drawing your attention again and I am doing this for the last time. Next time I'm gonna get you out of the room based on the relevant article.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u97	Thank you, Marshal. In this case... [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, please hold back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u98	You've got a friend, keep her out of the commentary, because this is no time or place for her comments. [[Voice from the room: Handcuffs? You're welcome, Marshal.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u99	Mr President, don't be nervous. I know this data hurts, but you know... [[Voice from the room: Waiting for handcuffs.]] ...no one will win in this situation. He won't win either the employees' community by protesting or won't win the ministry because nobody wants to wait anybody out. [[But we're asking.]] We're ready. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for dialogue, for conversation, this is the dialogue we have. And once again, I want to emphasise very strongly: we respect the work of workers very much. That's over 35,000. persons employed in the judicial system. I hope we can work out new rules so we don't go back to what happened years ago when you were in charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u100	Thank you very much. Another question, on the actions undertaken by the prosecution concerning the criminal activity of the SCU Wołomin. Mr Urbaniak is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Wójcik! Three years isn't enough to take care of the pay of the court's employees, but enough time to pay out record awards at the Ministry of Justice. [[Applause]] Minister! I wanted to ask you about the bias and asymmetricity of your prosecution's proceedings in the cases of the SKOKs, in particular in the matter of Wołomin's SKOK and supervision of the SKOK system. The prosecution, which has been subject to you for three years, has been delaying or remitting cases that are related to people in law and justice, but has shown extraordinary involvement in the cases of persons who have effectively tracked irregularities in the system of SKOK. I wanted to ask what proceedings the prosecution is conducting in connection with the removal of funds from the SKOK system, including from the SKOK Wołomin, from Kasa Krajowej to SKOK Holding in Luxembourg. When will charges be made for incorrect supervision by the National Bank in the years 2005 to 2012 of the SKOK system, in particular of the SKOK Wołomin system? When the charges were brought against the current Senator PiS Grzegorz Bierecki, who did not notify the prosecution of the irregularities of the SKOK Volomin, nor did he introduce the commission board to the cash register during the period during which he was supervising it, even though hundreds of hundreds of millions of zlotys were being brought out during that period? When charges are brought against Mr Sasin and other PiS politicians in connection with the accusation of taking bribes from people [[♪ The bell ♪]] SCOC-related Volomins? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u102	Thank you, sir. The answer will be given by the Minister of Justice - the Attorney General, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, the question received by the Ministry of Justice and the prosecution in writing was very extensive. Now you've been filling them in for a few more questions. Excuse me, sir, but right now we have six minutes to respond. I will be happy to answer all these questions, but it is not possible within such a short period of time. So, starting with these questions, which were the first, i.e. which you have formulated, they addressed to the Ministry of Justice to clarify our actions with regard to the KNF and the detention that took place recently in this case, I would like to briefly present the information primarily to you and, if possible, to answer other questions. [[We've been asking about the Wołomin Squad, Minister.]] First thing. There are, you can say, two stories, two reports about the KNF management's activities in the field of supervision of the Wołomin SKOK. One says that the management men were professional, reliable, fast and efficient. In this way they saved very serious property from losses in favour of individuals and the banking sector, the Treasury. And there is a second relationship that emerges from the findings of the prosecutor's office, completely, extremely different, namely that gentlemen acted unprofessionally, inefficiently, sleazyly, slowly and consciously of the withdrawal of gigantic money by an organized crime group did not take action that was in their duty, thus causing huge losses on the part of people, customers who trusted the system who had put money and deposits in the SCC of Volomin and could not count on proper protection from the state, including KNF, which was called for to do so. What is KNF? In short, its role is to protect, to prevent situations that threaten the security of money which Poles place in the broadly understood banking system. In short, you could say that. KNF is a constitutional institution that has huge powers and power to enter into the sphere of activity of individual institutions that it controls, including Wołomin SKOK, and to take control actions, react, order corrective plans, suspend board members and even introduce the commission board. Well, the findings that we have and which are the result of the investigation reveal the following picture. On 25 September 2012, the National Bank of Poland submitted a document on the identified risks in the SKOK sector, indicating five SKOKs in which an irregularity exists, including Volomin SKOK. As for Wołomin's SKOK, it was attached documentation indicating the transfer of money to poles, money laundering and actions that could be eligible as a threat to the sustainability of the institution's finances. In the period from 18 February 2013 to 15 March 2013, the KNF Office carried out the first check in the SKOK Wołomin and its results indicated that the SKOK in Wołomin grossly violated the laws indicated in the laws, numerous laws such as: Bank law, Cooperative law, SKOK law. The audit protocol showed that the financial and economic situation at the Wołomin SKOK as at 31 December 2012 was not stable and poses a real threat to the security of the money collected by the people at that cash register. The protocol also included a proposal, and it was its important, ordinary professional workers - and these people need to be respected here that they were doing their job, and pointed out what should be done, but unfortunately did not listen to this management - to establish a manager... [[Voice out of the room: They were removed, too.]] ...on the date of the submission of that inspection protocol, which took place, I will remind you, between 18 February 2013 and 15 March 2013. Officials demanded it, pointed out the need to appoint a commission board, because such a dramatic picture emerged from what they controlled. From their accounts and statements of witnesses, which we cannot disclose in detail, it appears that for the first time, although they controlled numerous SKOKs, they met with such a dramatic situation and so obvious extortion, extortion of money by criminal groups. An example of one that got stuck with me, one of the statements I read - it was there - was that a multimillion-dollar loan was granted to a lady who worked as a hairdresser with a confirmed monthly salary - do you know what? - Fifty thousand. zł. You know these ladies in barbershops who make 50,000 a month. Evil? [[Yes.]] Yes, the Member of the Platform knows. Congratulations. I bet you get a haircut from a hairdresser like that. It's a high class, you probably can afford it, but an average Pole can't afford it. And I have to tell you that what KNF employees give in their statements - and they have to be respected here - are striking examples of embezzlement, large-scale expropriation, an enormous scale of money by a criminal group that was then led by Wołomin SKOK. Despite this information, there is no speed, no priority. In the period from January to March, the cashier is removed, as we have already established on the basis of the proceedings under way, what amount? 2 million PLN, 5 million PLN, 7 million PLN? PLN 202 million. Exactly during this period. And, yes, another check shows... [[About what, please?]] On 18 March, the Office initiated administrative proceedings for the establishment of a district administrator, and the case is still not a priority. In March 56 million PLN was removed from the cash register. G.I.F. and K.N.F. notification to the D.A.'s office. Well, GILF is discovering a great deal of money laundering. It informs KNF several times. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[That's it.]] [[And that's it.]] KNF, on the basis of a notification from GIIF, directs the notification to the prosecutor's office. And still nothing. [[Not a word about it.]] 53 200 grand is taken out of the cash register. zł in April. [[Voice from the room: About.]] In June the same thing, more tens of millions of zlotys are moved out of the register. The administrative procedure shall be closed in October. In October we also know - and we know this not thanks to documents that we received from the office on the ordinary road, asking for documents, but as a result of searches, we obtained documents that were hidden from the prosecution's office - that already in September it was prepared accurate, complete... [[Minister, mercy, at least a word about it.]] ...a decision justifying the introduction of the commissary board.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u104	Minister, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u105	This board shall not be introduced for months. From October, November to December, checks are still being carried out, which are no longer relevant, because they confirm only what was known, confirm that every month PLN 50.70 million is carried out by a criminal group. In the meantime, since the month of October... [[What are you doing about it?]] ... 2013 to the month of October... [[We asked how the D.A.'s office works, your D.A.'s office.]] ... 2014, this group brings out more than PLN 1.5 billion. It's happening right under the nose of KNF. Is this how a professional state works, allowing such unpunished and impudent actions of criminals? Where was the police? Where was Homeland Security? Where were your servants? Didn't she rule by chance... [[That's the question of how the D.A.'s office works, how your D.A.'s office works. This is not a history lesson.]] ...then the Civic Platform? Isn't it the statutory task of those authorities you've overseen to prevent crime to hit organized crime groups? Their outrage led them to the fact that they were able to commit acts of extreme aggression and insolence, attack, physical assault on one of the members of the KNF. This shows how presumptuous they were, how unpunished they felt. They felt unpunished in a theoretical state, in a country that is virtually inactive, in a country governed by the Civic Platform. That is why it is our job to assess those who have abandoned their responsibilities and despite the GILF's Monitors, despite the appeals and requests of KNF employees, they have blocked decisions. Unfortunately, in this sense, the leadership of the KNF played a very negative role, which, contrary to the findings, had not taken the decisions that belonged to it in full knowledge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u106	Thank you. Additional question, Mrs Marta Golbik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u107	Thank you. Minister! Mr. District Attorney! We do not accidentally ask about the SFOK Volomin, we do not accidentally ask about the action of the prosecution in this case, because we are asking about the answer to one basic question: Why, when the case concerns politicians connected with PiS or directly politicians of PiS, the prosecution does not conduct proceedings, it reduces these proceedings, and if it concerns people who fought and paid their health, they fought for the savings of Poles, then you are able to protect criminals in fact, defend their behaviour, are you able to bring such persons to such proceedings? And, a simple matter, when will there be charges against Mr Sasin, because we know that in the case of any opposition policy after such a thing, these charges would already be? When are these charges gonna happen? When will Mr. Bierecki be questioned? Don't take sides with criminals because that's how you're acting today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u108	Mr Zbigniew Ziobro corresponds to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u109	If you don't get your arguments, you just want to be motivated by emotions, not arguments, create some manipulation... [[Voice from the room: But these are facts, Minister.]] [[Voice from the room: Specific facts.]] ...I will refer to the 2014 protocol, i.e. from a time when you were in charge, which is secure in the investigation. [[Voice from the room: Speak about your actions.]] [[Maybe you should've gone to history class.]] There is a statement by the vice-president of the National Bank of Poland, Mr Viesiołek, who asked, and I quote the protocol: After the first check carried out in Wołomin's SKOK, was there no reason to present a proposal on this matter at the meeting of the Financial Supervision Commission? We read further: From the statements of the department leading the case, such reasons existed after the inspection, since the cashier's situation was not good in 2013. And Mr. Vice President of the National Bank of Poland Viesiołek states: It seems that in January 2013 after the audit, it was possible to indicate the grounds for the establishment of a district administrator in Wołomin SKOK. [[The D.A.'s office's actions.]] If this were the case then, the bandits, the Mafia of the WSI, the communist Mafia of the WSI, the Mafia of the communist military services would not bring over PLN 2 billion out of the SKOK Volomin. The prosecutor took a more favourable date for the management of the SKOK Volomin and decided to accuse them of committing a crime during the last period, when he thought it possible to reasonably decide to introduce to the SKOK Volomin of the commission board, i.e. in October 2013 If then after the whole administrative procedure has been exhausted, because there is no real information that supposedly administrative procedure prevented the introduction of the commission board, this decision was taken, the bandits would not have brought over PLN 1.5 billion out of the SCC. They've stripped it to the bottom when it comes to all the money that was in Wołomin's SKOK. It wasn't until the D.A.'s office closed down the entire board of directors. It was as a result of the closure by the prosecution of the entire board of SkOK Wołomin that the KNF woke up. It was only four days after that that that he set up the board of directors because there was no more board of directors. Thank you very much. [[About.]] And as for the other people, first of all, Mr. Bierecki was, of course, questioned in this case. [[And he says he doesn't. Then who's lying?]] Secondly, we explain the omissions of all the authorities of the State which may have committed omissions in this case. This investigation is multifaceted. One of the threads is the analysis of the National Cashier case. The undisputed fact is that what you proposed as a remedy for irregularities, which certainly also happened and were in the period when only the National Fund supervised the Wołomin SKOK... [[Impossible.]] But it was, let's say, irregularities in the system, which is a dam before irregularities. Back then, there were cracks and holes that leaked resources. However, when you introduced what was supposed to be an antidote, a remedy for problems, it became a giant rift, through which the masses of money flowed out, millions. In total, it was over PLN 2 billion. It was during the KNF period. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The biggest pity, the giant pity, and the biggest profit of the bandits was when you took full responsibility for the supervision of the SKOK. It's been over two years. You really have something to be ashamed of. Don't attack the prosecutors. For a solid job on this case. [[Applause]] [[For lack of work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u110	Thank you. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting of the Sejm information will be considered on the links of family members employed in local self-government units, municipal companies, ministries, institutions subordinate to individual ministers, the President of the Council of Ministers or the Chancellery of the Prime Minister or supervised by these entities, companies of the State Treasury and institutions of the European Union with policies of the current and previous camp of power, as well as with persons performing key functions in the said institutions, having an impact on their personnel policy, which was requested by the Poselski Kukiz Club15. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Paweł Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Kukiz.15 is not in the Sejm to push our elbows, we are not in the Sejm to pinch each other, dig each other's ankles. We are here to pay attention to the problems of everyday life, problems of Poles, not only elites, but above all Poles, to give solutions aimed at improving the quality of life of Poles and the efficiency of functioning of the state. That is why we will talk today, dear country, about nepotism, a pathological phenomenon, which concerns many countries, which often concern the circles of power, which, according to the definition of the Polish dictionary, is to favour members of their own families, their loved ones, their friends, by decision-makers who influence power, widely understood power in the country. For this reason, Today we ask the government representative, we ask for current information on the family relationships of people employed in both local government units, executive units and executive units, because we want to know if the government has any information on the scale of these links at all. Ladies and gentlemen! This is important for citizens because, according to the foundation of the democratic state, every citizen, at least theoretically, has an equal right of access to the companies of the Treasury, to work in these companies, to the institution of executive authority, equal access to the legislative authority, i.e. the one which today, I, at least, have the honour of representing. And we must ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, whether Polish citizens actually have equal access to all those companies where salaries are often indecently high. In our opinion, no. In our view nepotism is a problem of Poland, but not only of today's Poland, not only of Poland ruled by Law and Justice, because it was also a big problem of Poland ruled by the Civic Platform, previously ruled by Law and Justice and before by SLD, AWS, PZPR, etc. That is why we want to give concrete solutions, we propose so-called. An anti-sitting bill that will contribute to... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take it easy. ...to introduce publicity in public life, to avoid such worse situations in which the children of ministers, Members of Parliament, Witches, Mayors, also wives, lovers, husbands receive the so-called. sonekura, i.e. positions well paid, just because there is a principle of connection, not competence. And, ladies and gentlemen, as a result... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please keep your voice down. ...I will appeal here, especially today, on the anniversary of the martial law, to the August postulates. One of them, already in 1980, talked about changing the way the Polish state operates, so that employment takes place on the basis of the principle of competence, not connections. This postulate, despite the passage of decades, although communism is only fortunately a memory today, has still not been realized. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid situations in the future, too, that the spokesperson of the government must explain that somewhere children must work... Well, let them work, if they are competent, let them work, but let it be public, let no one suspect that the person has been hired just because her father or mother is a minister, a mayor or a Member or a senator. That is why we are proposing an anti-sitva law, and today we are asking a government representative: Dear ladies, are there anti-nepotism procedures in central and local institutions, as well as in State Treasury companies and municipal companies? That's one thing. Two more questions, Marshal. Secondly, does the President of the Council of Ministers have any idea of the percentage of people employed in public institutions being members of active families of politicians, state authorities? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your Marshal, one last question. How does the President of the Council of Ministers refer to the draft Transparency Act submitted by the Kukiz Group on 26 November 2018 on the employment of loved ones in public sector entities and on the prevention of protection in the recruitment of members of the public sector? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u112	Thank you for taking the floor of the applicant's representative, Mr Grabowski. I invite you to answer the Secretary of State, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I wanted to say in advance that I will be very interested in your project and the government will certainly present its position on it. This is the answer to the last of your questions in your request for information on current matters. The State's proposal is formulated in a very general and wide manner and goes, frankly speaking, well beyond my competence as a representative of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and the President of the Council of Ministers himself. That's where I'd like to quote. The proposal lists people employed in local government units - I do not know how to refer to this... [[It's about the Treasury companies. Tell the minister.]] ...in municipal companies, institutions subordinate to individual ministers and supervised by them by individual ministers - to some extent, yes - in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers - yes. We still have the institutions of the European Union here. Mr President, please ask the institutions of the European Union and not the President of the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No further than a week ago, I seem to have actually presented the same information. I understand that this is your law, you want to promote your project. I repeat that with interest I will get to know him, there may be solutions there that can at least be seriously considered, but, as I say, I do not know this project yet. However, I would now like to say, as I did a week ago, when I presented the answer to the question on current issues, about the procedures that apply both to civil service and to the management of state property in companies when they appointed people to serve in these institutions, starting with companies of the State Treasury. Companies with the participation of the State Treasury carry out business activities, their primary task is to increase the value realised by maximising profits and increasing the protection of key economic interests of the State, and these activities must be included in the company's strategy. By the way, I would just like to remind you of the very good financial results of a large number of large companies in the State Treasury, which means that this objective is currently being pursued and there is tangible evidence for this. All matters relating to the conduct of the company's work, which are not governed by the law or by the articles of association for the general meeting or the supervisory board, fall within the competence of its Management Board. In particular, the conduct of the company's core activities, as well as staff matters such as the employment policy, which must comply with the law, should be mentioned here. The family relationship of the employed cannot be the subject of a qualifying procedure - I repeat what I said a week ago - or in a positive way, it is, of course, unacceptable and is an irregularity, or in a negative sense. The parties mentioned above. proceedings, i.e. qualification proceedings, are employed persons and an employer, who is not the President of the Council of Ministers or members of the Council of Ministers, but the authorities of individual companies. Art. 32 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland states that everyone is equal to the law, everyone has the right to equal treatment by public authorities. No one must be discriminated against in political, social or economic life for any reason. So I repeat, neither positive nor negative. The state - I am talking here about people who manage state property in companies - must be blindfolded and based solely on competences. Art. 47 of the Constitution, in turn, speaks of the right to protect private and family life: Everyone has the right to protect private life, family life, honor and good name and to decide on his or her personal life. Art. 9 GDPR law considers data on political views to be particularly sensitive. For all these reasons it is not possible to process information about belonging to political parties when hiring people in companies involving the State Treasury or in public institutions. I would also like to point out that in 2016 - actually the law entered into force on 1 January 2017 - there was a reform on the rules governing the management of state property in companies. This reform is continuing. The High Chamber is currently considering a proposal for a comprehensive revision of the above-mentioned Law of 1 January 2017 on the rules for the management of state property. To be honest, this amendment is based precisely on conclusions and reflections after 2 years of operation of this law and these principles. The Act of 1 January on the Principles for the Management of State Property is one of the elements implemented by the Government of Law and Justice in the exercise of the State Treasury's ownership powers, aimed at improving the efficiency of the management of national property, building its sustainable value and securing against possible abuses. The new system of management of state property increases the role of the supervisory board in the company's current activities and ensures greater transparency in the distribution of company funds, with particular emphasis on representation expenses, so that there is no abuse, marketing and legal advice. With regard to the competences and tasks of supervisory boards, the law has been transferred to the level of the law and the requirements to be met by candidates for members of supervisory authorities in companies have been strengthened, i.e. the obligation of 5 years' professional experience has been added. The obligation to comply with these conditions has also been extended to members of the supervisory boards of subsidiaries. What is particularly important is the need for candidates to be members of supervisory authorities designated by the State Treasury or a public legal person to obtain a positive opinion of the Company Board. The opinion of the Company Board shall be delivered each time for a specific procedure, i.e. the Council shall give an opinion on the person indicated in the application as a candidate for the company concerned for each term of office. Mr. Speaker! As regards the appointment of company boards, entities authorised to carry out transactions belonging to the Treasury have been required to take measures which do not have to specify the minimum requirements to be met by candidates as members of the management body. The obligation to qualify has also been extended to entities with a minority share of the State Treasury. It was pointed out that mandatory conditions for the education and experience of candidates should be taken into account when determining requirements according to their corporate powers. The measures described should also apply in capital groups. As regards the restrictions on candidates who are part of political parties or parliamentary groups, I already mentioned this a week ago. I don't want to say it again. Mr. Speaker! As far as civil service is concerned, as your question also covers persons employed in public administration under the Civil Service Act, I wanted to point out that recruitment for civil service work is based on open and competitive recruitment. The exception is higher positions in civil service - this is otherwise stated. Employment vacancies are published in the KPRM Public Information Bulletin and other recruitment offices. Employment may be sought by a person who is a Polish citizen or a citizen of the European Union who enjoys full public rights, has not been convicted by a final judgment for intentional crimes or intentional tax offences, has the qualifications required at a given workplace and has good reputation. As regards the recruitment of civil servants, it shall be conducted in accordance with the principle of selection. The final decision shall be taken by the Director-General of the Office. As regards higher civil service posts - from the Director-General of the Office to the office managing the organisational cell - candidates for these posts must, of course, comply with the statutory requirements laid down by the other members of the civil service corps, which I have already mentioned, have a Master's or equivalent diploma, cannot be convicted by a final judgment ruling prohibiting the taking up of managerial positions, must have managerial powers and must meet the requirements laid down each time in respect of the position in question. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Please accept these explanations as regards the questions you have asked within the framework of... Your Marshal, may I ask for an extension of your time? I'm just running out of time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just a minute, 'cause I'm already...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u114	I'm extending the time by a minute. In the second part, I can extend the time more, but now just a minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u115	I see. He asked me to say that salaries in companies are indecently high. We have reduced them to 15 times the average wage in the economy. [[A million a month.]] In the vast majority of companies, this maximum limit of 15 times has not been reached. He's definitely shorter. As regards the government's position towards your project, it will be presented after a detailed analysis. As far as knowledge of cases of employment of relatives is concerned, for those reasons which I gave earlier, I cannot present this information. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much and please accept the explanations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of your fellow Members like to sign up? I don't see any calls. So I'm closing the list. And I'm opening a discussion at the same time. [[Your Marshal, can I ask you another question?]] No, there's no questioning formula at this stage. You can speak in the discussion and then in the second part you can still speak as a representative of the applicants. And we begin with Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of employment in the public sector or in a narrower way: in companies of the Treasury, you can of course demonize, you can use stereotypes, you can talk about specific, often pathological, but exceptional situations, but what is really important is something else. You have to ask the question differently, by the fruits you will know us, i.e. the results of these actors we are talking about. Is today so that these results are better, or are they worse? And if so, to what extent? If we're talking about wages, are they higher or lower than they used to be? So it is necessary here, firstly, to examine the economic result, secondly, to compare it with the years 2007 to 2015. Then we'll have a proper picture of the whole situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u118	Thank you. I invite you to speak for Mr Caesar Tomczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I went to the Central Bureau of Corruption. There is a report in which the definitions of nepotism and cognition are given. I'll give you a quote. Nepotism is an abuse of a position by protege of relatives. Kumoterism is a favoritism based not on kinship, but on social relationships. Now I have a question for you from PiS: Does it sound familiar? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Son of Kaminski, daughter of Piotrowicz, wife and brother of Ziobra... [[Who's asking? Who's asking?]] Son of Sobecka, sister of Morawiecki, father of Jaki, son of Przyłębska, son of Czarnecki, daughter of Szyszka, cousin of Kaczyński, brother of Waszczykowski. [[Applause]] So far Poland has known such a specific form of extortion of money - method for grandson. And that's criminal. And you're trying your daughter's method today, your sister's method, and your father's method. It's a pity, in this case, for the father of Minister Jaki. But these methods should also be punishable. Ladies and gentlemen, three years after you took power, let's take a look at what the Treasury companies look like. Grupa Azoty, here is the formulation of the group Azoty - minus 74%, Bank of Environmental Protection - minus 67%, chemical plants Police - minus 44%, Tauron - minus 35%, PKP Cargo - minus 36%. Going back to the sons, the daughters, the son of Minister Kaminski. If he was a well-known financier, with experience, if his father's colleague hadn't sent him to work as an advisor at the World Bank, I really wouldn't mind. Do you know, however, what the "but" is? But the thing is, it's exactly the opposite. This man has no experience, his father's friend sent him to work, makes 70 grand. monthly. Your Marshal, if I may, the last sentence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister mentioned that it was so difficult to gather it in one place, I would remind you of the election promise of Minister Błaszczak of 2012, who announced the creation of an online register of families that are employed in companies of the Treasury. Where's the ledger? There's no record of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u120	I invite Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz15, to speak again. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u121	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Shame, just shame. Shame, because you're talking about not getting acquainted with the project we talked about last week. It's a shame because you think it's the business of people who sacrifice for $100,000, $200,000. monthly in companies of the Treasury, their private interest, and their privacy are more important than the interests of the Republic of Poland's citizens. Shame on you because you don't want to reveal and show the citizens what their money is spent on. Their money, for which their companies work, their money, which makes ours - ours, that is, all citizens - companies. Money that goes to friends of the bunny, money that goes to those people only because they have either the logo Law and Justice at their breasts or in their hearts, or they have proper family, social contacts. Really, disclosure isn't a bad thing. Minister, believe me, transparency and truth are nothing bad. The truth really is enough for our companies not to have losses like Azot's, like the bank that was mentioned earlier, but for those profits that you have now to be even bigger. Because there really are a lot of specialists and it's not about their salary. If someone is a specialist and earns a living in the company, it's okay, but if it's just a way of taking money out of the Treasury companies and giving really a profit just because someone deserves it or has super good connections, then we're talking about something that should be punished. The Kukiz15 project is in the Sejm, should be with the Minister by now, and the Minister, since he is answering questions on this issue and took these answers a week ago, should be familiar with this project, all the more so because it is not far from this project, which once the Law and Justice tried to report, but unfortunately it happened that the Platform does not cast, only you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So... You keep the existing system in the position it's been held in before. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u122	Thank you. I invite Mr Janusz Sanocki, a non-member, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project of the Kukiz club15 is appropriate, necessary. Perhaps this is the first valuable project submitted by the Kukiz club15 during this term of office. Congratulations. [[Joy in the Chamber]] On the other hand, I enjoyed Mr Buda's words, because the logic of this statement leads in this way: what if nepotism, what if relatives and acquaintances of the rabbit, when the companies have good results. [[But they don't, they don't all have.]] Let's skip whether they have it or not. [[Voice from the room: This is quite important.]] ...but the logic of the Member's speech was in this direction. And I believe that this is also the reason, Mr PiS and the honourable colleagues, to support this project, [[Applause]] 'Cause since nepotism turns out to be so economically beneficial, filling up these lovers as I say, wives or there, let's say, friends and cousins have such good economic results, let's be proud of it, let's not be ashamed of it. Maybe this is a way to put the Polish economy back on its feet: more rabbit relatives, more friends, more cousins. And I hope that in this spirit, my dear colleagues from the PiS will support this project, because it shows the right path for our party. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u124	Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u125	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to show, on the example of Gliwice, what are the standards of self-employment in the release of civil platform activists. We learned about the Gliwice system during the local elections. I ignore the issue of the work of Mr Budki's wife as director of the Department for Dialogue of the Marshal's Office of Silesian Voivodeship. As the PSL activists have repeatedly said, our family members must work somewhere. This is mainly about establishing a letter to the City Council of Gliwice, or actually amending the agreed letter by Mr Budka and Marta Golbik. Those who were candidates learned about the changes the day after registration of the letter. [[Voice from the room: What does that have to do with anything?]] The case affected, among others. Councilman Jan Pajak with 12 years of local government internship. He's a councilman who's made $1,000. Interpellation. In the plebiscite of the self-government portal he was elected the best local governmentman, the councilman. Mr Budka's wife took his place. Please note that the letters were originally established by local structures. The changes have been made in such a disgraceful way by Members, destroying self-government, regardless of the local community. And I have a question for Kukiz15: Do you have any idea how many of your people work on the board of directors? Do you have that knowledge? [[That's why this bill is needed.]] [[That's why we need a bill like this.]] You should, because your people are on the board of directors. Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We heard everything, it's recording.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u126	Thank you. I invite Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome. But before you begin your speech, I wanted to say hello to the young people from Puławy from the high school of the National Education Commission. [[Applause]] I wish you a pleasant stay in the Seym and nevertheless positive impressions. So that I welcome you very warmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u127	I didn't know we had young people here from Puławy, but it's a good thing, because Mr. Buda was talking about the good situation of the Treasury companies. I'm a sports fan and I read a few days ago - I'm not from Puławy - how Azoty solves a deal with Vistula Puławy, 500,000. PLN annual grant. Azoty, a large company with billions of turnover - cannot afford to maintain the club, where the budget is PLN 0.5 million. This is the good condition of the Treasury companies. Azotes are such a classic example. De facto a monopolist, a big company, a big company that you've led to this situation by an absolutely incompetent management. You have brought this company to the brink, to a dramatic financial situation. I think the definition of this whole thing was given by Mr. Kaczyński, who said: we used to bet on professionals, but they didn't work out because they weren't loyal, and now we're gonna bet on our own. Pay attention to this worse process when your councillors took over the companies. It's come to this point that you had to remove them from the local government. Interesting trial took place because their sons took their place in local governments. They went to the board of directors, to companies, and in their place went sons, children, daughters. Same names of people who don't have any experience. These are the worst standards, really from the East, somewhere in Belarus. And then there's the Azoth results. Gryfia Shipyard in Szczecin, where after 3 years you have been supported by shipbuilders, politically supporting you, writes dramatically that you have led her to the brink of bankruptcy. Yeah, but when the councillors get caught up in it, that's the effect. Szczecińska Shipyard carried out its first launching in the last weeks, i.e. She sunk the volleyball club. This is your way of managing. The situation is dramatic. The situation is dramatic and we will see that, people will find out on the basis of jobs, financial results of companies about what you will lead to. And the same people will thank you for the year.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u128	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. Here you go, another performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I must admit that I am sorry when I hear that, despite the passage of time, you have not read our bill, because if you had read this bill, you would know that we are not interested in anything but transparency. We're not talking about prohibition, ordering. We want to give the tool to Poles so Poles can know that the mayor's wife works at the uncle's office, for example. Uncle's son-in-law is Deputy Mayor of the first mentioned. Such examples, such cross-employment is unfortunately a kind of standard in Poland. We may regret it, but on the other hand, in my family There was even a special discussion on the bank, and many people pointed out that there was nothing wrong with it. So all we want is this transparency. That's the first thing I'm sorry about. The second thing I'm sorry about, Minister. There's a saying: if you come between the crows, you have to crawl like them. Unfortunately, I have the impression that you are starting to defend the system when you enter the ministerial shoes. You are beginning to defend a certain sick system, which causes the Polish state to act in a faulty way, sometimes even indecent. Minister, this is about taking the interests of the citizens first and foremost into account. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] As Mr Appeal said: if someone decides to take the burden on their shoulders and earn the 50,000. A month... I'm asking you not to hide yourself, not to speak in the case of such people of constitutional values, about the fact that the bill does not allow. Who's making these laws? We're here. Alone? The State in which the government, the Sejm, is to be the law for itself - this is democracy? Ladies and gentlemen! Get really sober, everybody in the O.R. We are elected by citizens and our task is [[♪ The bell ♪]] to promote citizens, in their interests and not in their own interests. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u130	Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice - another speech. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The staffing cast of companies of the State Treasury always arouses the emotions of society, or at least its part, which is interested in the political and economic life of Poland. The recruitment of staff in offices, and since last year also in companies of the State Treasury, lay down the relevant provisions, but the authorities responsible for the company should depend on the best staffing. The quality of the staff determines the results of the company. This is where we come to the point. There were also allegations of politicality, not by qualification, but by the political key, when the current government casts companies of the State Treasury. At this point we touch sensitive matter, because this charge can be made almost always. As I mentioned earlier, the results of the companies answer the question of whether employment was political or substantive. [[But it's all about transparency.]] Hence my question: How are the results of the Treasury companies in the last 3 years up to the results of the earlier period, and how are these results related to the results of other companies of a similar nature? And by the way, hiring according to knowledge or kinship, especially, is reprehensible, and we should all have equal positions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's why we're all about transparency, exclusively.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u132	Thank you. I invite Mr Marka Owl, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We had a burning speech from the Minister about nothing. This speech reminded me of the answer to the awards that were paid for ministers a few months ago. You're referring to the constitution, to other elements. It's a shame you didn't show a true and fair picture of how you just shared power and influence in these companies. The career of Minister Kaminski's son has already been mentioned here, but you have not said a word about the fact that the Minister of Justice outside the justice system has also received the entire PZU Group and is very active in taking care of it. Let me just remind you that the minister's wife is also in the insurance group, and the minister's brother is in the Pekao SA bank. The role of the President of the National Bank of Poland was very active: he filled the entire Financial Supervision Commission. With what result, we all know, because this has been with us for a few weeks, and it will probably accompany us in the near future. The wife of the former president, who is in custody, has chosen to be his closest associate, deputy director at the National Bank of Poland. Plus, they have a company that sells orders, and they use it as much as they can. A special family+ program was created for the Przyłębski family - Ambassador, President of the Constitutional Court, son at Pekao SA Bank. Also, Prime Minister Szydło does not forget her loved ones, instead of fulfilling the electoral promises for Małopolska. In the first place, she made sure that a colleague from the school board had a good function so that her closest associates... the husband of the director of the parliamentary office could sit on the Board of Węglokoks. Yes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're in charge. It must be said that there can be absolutely no consent for this. It shows the whole truth, shows that you have made Polish private farm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u134	Ms Agnieszka Szczaj, Kukiz.15 - next speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Very often the Law and Justice criticizes the previous governments for collusion, for nepotism, for abuse of power. Rightly, such criticism is needed, but I have a question: Why don't you really follow the path of a good change? Why don't you follow the path that you even pointed out at some point to President Jarosław Kaczyński? Ladies and gentlemen! If someone is taking on the role of councillor, a Member, or someone who is to guard taxpayers' money, then in good terms he should not be a shareholder, use this money, and work on taxpayers' assets, because that in itself contradicts that he will be a good guardian of this money. So why not introduce a ban on combining this, a ban on working in companies of the State Treasury, but also local companies, people who decide to perform public functions? This system solution would allow once and for all to limit what we have been discussing here for years, the point is to shift arguments, because anyone who would undertake this function would simply be a clear, clean man. He wouldn't be linked to it in any way, and he couldn't be accused of what we're all actually accusing him of right now. Ladies and gentlemen! A really good change, good power itself can limit its own privileges. Can you afford it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u136	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There has been a lot of talk here about the Treasury companies, which bring record profits, but there are also municipal, local and local companies, which often have losses, are systematically financed by local governments with taxpayers' money. What are the employment standards? How do these standards meet the standards in the Treasury companies whose activities, including employment, are strictly regulated by laws? Are such procedures, which are in the companies of the Treasury, also in municipal companies in our small homelands? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u138	Ms Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, another speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Matuszewski's arrangement, of course a suspended Member, the arrangement in the district of Sieradzki, has passed all imaginations. Here, on the other hand, a deeper analysis should be made of who is a relative, who is a relative, because electoral letters, both to the commune and to the county, and to the voivodeship sejm, were completely dominated by the family of Mr Matuszewski: daughter, son, Christian, aunt sister of the wife, her husband, son and his wife, director of the office of the Member and his brother and other relatives. In addition, we can add PGE, the district heating company, the Heat Energy Company, the gas company. It's a big job merry-go-round, but more importantly, the apanages that are connected to these positions. A few years ago in the centre of Zgierz, in the city park, in the immediate vicinity of beautiful historic urban baths, the only such monument in Poland, a car wash belonging to the wife of Matuszewski was created. Of course there were protests, but at that time many friends, relatives of Mr Matuszewski, were still working at the city office. And now, finally, I would like to say that, yes, Mr Matuszewski was suspended, only that the vice-president of the council in the voivodeship sejm had just been protégé of Mr Matuszewski. This is unbelievable. I've got seven seconds left. Maybe I can just quote some very nice information... [[♪ The bell ♪]] - I didn't make it - which President Kaczyński often repeats. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u140	Mr Maciej Masłowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since the beginning of this term we have heard the same thing, such a shift: you steal from Poles - yes, but you have also robbed; you have hired your own - yes, but you have also employed. That's why Kukiz.15 said: I check and submit a draft anti-sitvo law. So if you really support the full transparency of these connections, if, like us, you are ready to say, no more nepotism, no more collusion, then I hope you will support this bill. On the other hand, Minister, how are we supposed to explain to the young people who are sitting in the gallery, the young people who are sitting in front of the screen, that it is wise enough to... [[There's no youth.]] ...to learn a lot, to work a lot, if they observe that it's enough to be a mediocre but faithful party activist to get a seat in a State Treasury company and earn 0.5 million or 1 million a year? It's heavy and it's a joke. Although other jokes have been very popular lately, when your wife says to your husband: Where did you get the money? From the shelf. Which shelf? Treasury companies. This is a very popular joke these days. Only, Minister, it's also a joke, with all due respect to you, that you're going out here saying you haven't read the bill yet. Yes, we pass various laws through this Sejm, sometimes 1,100 pages in one night, but our bill had 33 pages. There were 9 pages of records and 20 pages of explanations as to why we wanted these connections to be public, these relations, family connections, and friends. So to say that I haven't gotten acquainted yet... I could read it even now, because the project is simple. The project says one thing: we want transparency, we want all Poles to see whether people employed in companies of the Treasury are professional, experienced or simply friends from the event. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u142	Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice, another speech. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u143	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I very much agree with certain statements that have been made here before, that those who perform high functions in the sphere of political or social life should perform these functions in a transparent and transparent manner. In this connection, I have a question for the Minister: Are there statutory restrictions on members of the Boards of State Treasury companies for members of political parties or members of parliamentary offices? And if so, maybe the Minister will answer me when the law is in force. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u144	Thank you and welcome Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, the Minister did not care about the relatives of the influential PiS politicians who sit in the Treasury companies. I think it takes so much civilian courage, Minister, to talk about it. You didn't tell me about it. I'll remind you in a moment. But there are also young people here at the gallery, and I would like to quote the government spokesman, Mrs. Kopcinska: Children of politicians, our children are young, capable, educated. So I understand that the children of politicians in PiS have a chance of a great career, whatever... What about the other children - I would like to ask, Minister - millions of Poles? Young people work hard, speak languages, learn and have no chance of taking a job at the World Bank like Mr. Kacper Jakub Kaminski. Young man - 0.5 million a year, that's normal. I understand that this is a complete coincidence that this is the son of the influential, prominent policy of Mr. Kaminski's PiS. Let's move on. Let's move on. A few minutes ago, Minister Ziobro screamed here, saying that the law must be observed. So let's ask: Is it a coincidence that Mr. Ziobra's wife, Mrs. Patricia Kotecka, works as marketing director at Link 4, a subsidiary of PZU? Is that a coincidence? Was there a contest? On what grounds was she hired? Maybe the next one, Mr. Witold Ziobro, Mr. Zbigniew Ziobra's brother, advisor to Pekao Bank, a bank that was taken over, among others. by PZU. Is that a coincidence? Of course, it's not a coincidence, of course, that you fill companies with your activists. It is also worth recalling the outstanding Conservative of Mr Five, a man known for his hard convictions and compliance with the Decalogue. I think we've all been following his texts in which his, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's call it It was a gentle, close friend who offered to work in Orlena. It's the truth about the PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u146	Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I listen to all of you, and I think that the TKM was, is and will be, it will apply to everyone and it will apply until the rules change, it will not introduce simple, clean and obvious rules. [[Applause]] I mean, should a city councilman be in municipal companies? It's simple. Some of them are deliberately running for city council to move into the company. Everyone knows that, and we all tolerate it, because that's how the wage system is established in the Treasury companies as well. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking here, we're exchanging names, but we're also making laws that are corrupt and protective. Well, we passed a law on free legal aid, which I was talking about yesterday. It has come to the conclusion that the Minister of Justice, who has been thundering here recently, is making decisions on the basis of which practically one person gives consent, which NGOs, and thus its NGOs, will be able to train other organisations so that they can provide civic guidance. That's the kind of service that every member has to get this piece of paper is charged with $3,000. zł per course and 1 000. for the exam. And whether or not he's a lawyer, or if he has any idea, he's just putting money on his non-governmental organizations, ladies and gentlemen, and none of you can see it. Not much, you all voted here, except for us, in favour of the Free Legal Assistance Act, not knowing at all what you are voting for. [[But you weren't there.]] And today's finale is that organizations, little of that, Members of the House, who are not lawyers, who sit on the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Justice, in the whole area, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where they have ten times more power, they can't give counseling to citizens because they don't have that $4,000 paperwork. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u148	Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u149	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Years ago and a few years earlier in institutions subordinate to e.g. The minister of agriculture had a lot of family ties. I'll give you an example of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture... [[Witold Ziobro, Patricia Kotecka.]] ...where in 2012 about 30% of people had one-sounding names and many of them were registered at the same address. In my opinion, at the turn of 2015 and 2016, we end with these practices because we change standards and procedures for hiring people in the public sector. [[You take everything you can.]] This has to be done, and we're doing it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister to compare and give examples of how we change standards and procedures in the employment of people in the public sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u150	Thank you very much. And another speech - Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u151	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Lying, money, propaganda are the attributes of power... [[On your side.]] ... Laws and Justice. I don't want to talk anymore... [[Ha, ha, ha.]] ...about sons, daughters of Members employed in companies of the Treasury, about their colleagues, friends, colleagues, it has already passed, sounded and will still sound. I want to go ahead and say something else: you're starting to pull money out of the Treasury companies for propaganda. In Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and in companies of daughters, a newspaper of a group of 10 thousand is published. twice a month, and it's 16 pages. These two editions cost about 7,000. monthly. What does it turn out to be? That it is not enough that from October to September 2018 members of the PiS reached after the money of Jastrzębska Węglowa Spółka Węglowa because they issue their newspaper. This newspaper, a four-page little newspaper, places information about a hawk company. That 7,000 isn't enough.? 20,000 won't be enough. effort? No. Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa has a daughter's company. Who's on the board of directors? Members of Law and Justice, Councillor of the Hawk-Zdrój City Council. They have been earning more than 25 thousand since November 2016. zł. So? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And this insurance company financed the purchase of notices payable for more than PLN 10 500 from November 2016 to 2018. The other companies of the State Treasury from Hawk-Zdrój did the same thing, the same newspaper. That's over 104 grand. zł...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u152	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u153	...spent by the Treasury companies for your propaganda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u154	I invite Mr Paweł Szramka, the Kukiz Club15, to make another speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before we even started this conversation, I knew exactly how it would go. I knew that the voices from the Platform on PiS would be like this: you are now putting your people in companies of the Treasury, etc., and the PiS response will not be that we are trying to fix it, etc., just like that: you were doing it too. Unfortunately, this way our country cannot function. I regret that we must have such a discussion at all. But there is a spark of hope, because you know the mechanism and you know how we can fix it. That's why it's really worth thinking about the Kukiz Act15 and I see here that to some extent you do... And some, and others are looking for hooks, looking for people employed in companies of the State Treasury or in local governments. Okay, look for these people, but I think that our law could do you, and we could all deal with lawmaking in Poland, not looking for hooks for other political parties. This is ridiculous, and that is not what the Member should be doing. The Member should be here to participate in making good law for Poles. I think that one such element of good lawmaking would be the adoption of an anti-sitva law in order to make it transparent, so that citizens can assess whether a Member is more his representative in the Sejm or maybe simply an intermediary in obtaining work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u156	Thank you. I invite Mrs Lydia Burzyńska, Law and Justice, to speak again.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u157	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I do not want - I will simply say this - I will not, during my speech and asking questions, lower myself to dishonesty, pretending, hypocriticalness, which with such an even acting face and an acting tone in the voice are voiced by representatives of the PO-KO. The remuneration of the members of the supervisory boards of companies with the participation of the State Treasury and local government units depends on the number of employees and annual turnover and the sum of the annual assets. As of today, this is governed by the Act of 9 June 2016 on the rules for determining the remuneration of persons managing certain companies. It was in 2016 that the Government of Law and Justice, the salaries of company managers with the participation of the State Treasury, linked, I repeat, linked to the situation and size of the company and the fulfilment of its investment objectives. This law has clearly changed the approach to the remuneration of boards of companies of the Treasury in relation to the previously applicable law so-called. It's a chimney. Minister! I have a question: How do the remunerations of the Boards of Boards of State Treasury companies develop if it compares the period until 2015 and the period after the introduction of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u158	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! What a hypocritical and cynical statement from my previous speaker about changing the standards of hiring people in companies of the Treasury! The truth is that you have lowered these standards just so that the ravens, unprepared to perform such important functions, perform them in these companies and build their home budgets on them for apology. It reminded me of how President Kaczyński spoke at a press conference in November 2012 about how PiS is acting against nepotism. It was President Kaczyński who called for the disclosure of the list of politicians and members of their families employed in state-owned companies. If it wasn't so scary, you could laugh. You sat next to him, Mr. Bogusław, and I'm sorry, Mr. Bolesław Piecha. I will quote here from the article from Newsweek: Son of Member, wife, mother, mother-in-law, assistant brother-in-law and future daughter-in-law, second son's fiancée, husband of director, brother and sister-in-law. This is not a list of wedding guests, it is the employees of the Euro MP Bolesław Piecha. These are exactly the standards you introduce in politics. I will remind you of a certain Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice of 1994, who was the first brave politician to introduce the action of "Clean Hands." It seems to me that the law proposed by the colleagues at the Kukiz club15 does not go as far as the social expectations they should, because we should not only reveal these people, but also introduce a ban here, because when someone decides to perform a public function, it should also be a contract with his family. The family should be aware that she will not have any benefits for this reason. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, the Kukiz club15, will give another speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u161	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! CBA, Minister. What happened to CBA? When the CBA was formed, we heard one thing: It will be the whip on the elite, on the politicians, on the authorities. In the first place, the politicians of power were to be guarded. What happened to CBA? While at the beginning, at the origins of the CBA, there was activity and activity of this service, today, as I have the impression, it was staggered not to say: these teeth, this claw, have been cut off. It was done by some of the P.O.'s colleagues. You're doing exactly the same thing today with the PiS. If CBA, ethics, anti-corruption... In practice, it would be cut at the roots, and the state would not be red today. It's very simple. KNF. As a Member, it so happens that I have repeatedly asked questions about the positions in the KNF as regards the people sitting there. I asked the question as a Member - a control rule - how many high executives in KNF have shares in banks, companies and insurance. What was my answer? Mystery. [[Morawiecki had shares...]] I asked a question in the Ministry so that it would be Minister Morawiecki. I got an answer, a secret. There was an attempt by Members to control KNF - a secret. We create fiction, ladies and gentlemen. If the mandate of a Member is to be a control element, it cannot be fiction and it cannot be said that it is a secret. We have access to classified information. We have secret law firms. This must be implemented practically and effectively. It's the only way to keep the state in order. That's what I'm asking. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u162	Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u163	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I agree with many statements made by the applicant, especially with regard to local authorities. There have already been many examples given here from my county, Legnica County, and I will even say that from the Dolnośląskie Voivodeship. Previous term. The former governor is the sister of the former Deputy Marshal of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. Her daughter-in-law and sister are old-age workers. Not to mention, there was another sister in one of the town's mayors. It was not said that the county and the voivodship ruled by PSL, but that the name of this family was mentioned. But I have a question for the Minister on the State Treasury companies: Do members of the government, Members or representatives of political parties have an influence on the hiring of executives in companies, or does this belong solely to the board of directors of these companies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u164	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was recently December 4th, Mrs. Basi's name on Novgorodska. You can say, such a situation, a genre scene: in aunt's name there are guests, there is a family, so the program starts with laughter and tears. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for laughter is not too much here, but to tears - indeed a lot. The fight against corruption, the fight against nepotism, the fight against guys - it was written on your banners. Today, the PiS dies from their own weapons. Nowogrodzka is a job placement address, it's a job hunter's address. That's where Adam Glapiński came from Mr. Mark Ch's CV to approve them. That man was the president of the KNF. This is your man. This is your responsibility and your shame. Today I would also like to talk about these outrageous words, these shameful translations of yours. When you see a clear conflict of interest, as in the situation of the son of the special service coordinator, what does Mr Mosiński of the PiS say? Kids have to work somewhere. And what does the spokeswoman Kopcińska add? Our children are young, capable, speak languages, and have been chosen through their competences. This shows how you treat the state. Jarosław Kaczyński used to talk about TKM. It was you TKM who developed to perfection. There's never been greed, corruption on such a scale. Mrs. Szydło said on this speaker: we just had the money. And those jobs belonged to you, too. And we know that you have children capable, competent, and completely nothing to do with their careers, their finances and those conflicts of interest that are noticed by society every day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Rometki. But before you speak, you will allow me to say hello this time to the young people from Stargard Gdansk, [[Applause]] who arrived at the invitation of Mr John Kilian. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I wish you a pleasant stay and a positive experience from this place. I would ask you to speak, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u167	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Young People at the Gallery! I listen and I hear adjectives, tricks... Let me put it this way: one batch of the other is worth it. Some have forgotten, others do. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm the father of two daughters, I'm a partyless person, I'm a citizen of the Kukiz Movement15. My daughters didn't get a job, I didn't look for connections, they went to work, they went to England for bread. I wish they'd come back and have a job here, like a lot of young people. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a councilman in Koszalin, and now I'm an envoy and going into politics, and I've never thought about prying, getting caught up, putting money in my pocket. I went here, and before that, to the city council, to serve, to serve a small country, and now to serve my country. That's what led me to take off. I wanted to be here to work for the general public. [[Bravo!]] Now, after the local elections, the people who ran from us are terrified. Young people have taken power in local governments. E.g. For 14 million of the municipality of Rąbino, the municipality is indebted to 7 million. [[In a community like this?]] The connections, the deals are everywhere: on the board of directors, at the office. And I suspect it's in every municipality. I always said that in every municipality it is - guys, there is no work for normal people. Young people leave, emigrate behind bread. But do you know what the alternative is and the cure for it? The Civil Movement... [[Voice from the room: PO-KO.]] ... Kukiz.15. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u168	Thank you very much, sir. And now I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u169	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for today's debate, which actually reveals what has been going on so far, when Law and Justice have taken over governments. I must stress that there was a Council for Treasury Companies, and I would like to ask the Minister... [[It works well.]] ...what she does, when she was born, and if it's because this advice was made, these standards are really very good. Listening to the statements of the Members of the total opposition, I come to the conclusion that this is nothing concrete, demagogy, populism, unfortunately... [[Names specific.]] ...not supported by facts. I must give such an example from the Marshal's office from Silesia, where they were created... [[Interesting.]] ...mother's company, daughter's company. There's already an amazing number of these companies. There, according to the Act, it referred not to management functions, because in these companies there can be no councilmen in management positions, only as agents, advisors, wonders-angels. It's just that these jobs have been created so that guys can make money at a cost. Us, Poles. And, of course, unfortunately here, the Platform created a pathology in the coalition with PSL, which Law and Justice is repairing. But it can't be fixed from Monday to Tuesday. [[Yes, sir. Misiewicz fixed everything.]] I am glad that there was this good decision about the local elections, and those who perform high functions in the companies of the Treasury could not run. Here is a great bow towards the political council, President Jarosław Kaczyński, who shows good standards, such as should be applied in politics today. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir. Bartłomiej Misiewicz.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u170	Thank you. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, is another speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Work, humility, moderation - these are the principles that we will follow. This was how Prime Minister Beata Szydło thundered at her exposé. She didn't specify exactly that she only meant working for her PiS cameras. Teddy bear is a symbol of your rule, your rule of guyhood, your hypocrisy and your lies. How doable is this change, he presented to Poles Daniel Obajtek - from Pcim's uncle, starting with the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, then Energa Group, where in 10 months he earned, bagatela, 680 thousand. PLN, up to the position of president of the largest Polish company, such as PKN Orlen, where annual income, as we know, reaches millions of PLN. But PiS also did not forget Mr Obajtek's brother, Bartłomiej, who from the private staff of State Forests promoted to director of the Regional Directorate of State Forests in Gdańsk. [[May I? Yes, you can.]] The example of Energa shows clearly how it is resining in state companies. Seven presidents in three years of PiS rule. The longest president of Energa was a Mr Dariusz Kaśków, whose annual CEO cost the state company almost PLN 2 million. And we remember the situation of 2007, when as Mr. Adam Hofman's protégé a few days before PiS's surrender of power, he became president. [[♪ The bell ♪]] KGHM only to be president of the check-in. Just a moment, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u172	I invite Mr Józef Lassota...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u173	Three years in total... [[May I? Yes, you can.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u174	... Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u175	...30 companies of the Treasury had over 100 presidents from the PiS nomination.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u176	Thank you, sir. Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u177	The motherland will come back to us, Lord. These are the words of President Andrzej Duda. Truth or lie? [[Applause]] [[Stop it.]] [[Bravo!]] [[Your marshal, please don't let... it was in a Catholic song...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u178	Thank you very much, sir. And I invite another Member, Mr Józef Lassota, the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition. [[But this is a quote from President Duda.]] [[But that's what the President said.]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr Józef Lassota... [[I'm on my own.]] ...she now has time for her speech. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] And yet I see that the Member has somehow become very nervous. You guys are nervous because...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u180	Mr Lassota, just a moment, please. I draw your attention to the Civic Platform - the Civic Coalition, and to the Law and Justice. Please allow your colleagues to speak. Like gentlemen, Mr Lassota also wants to be heard in this Chamber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u181	Thank you, Marshal. I understand, Your Marshal, the nervousness of the PiS Members. When she exposes herself to the truth, which unfortunately is exactly what we're showing her, they're nervous. And I will quote such a quote from one of the Members: Corruption, nepotism and guys have spilled across the country in the sizes previously unknown. It was in 2013 and later, i.e. just 5 years ago, that one Jarosław Kaczyński, PiS Member, spoke. But because the PiS has such a custom that it does everything positive, so he decided to show that this plus is not only a plus, but corruption, nepotism and guysity raised to the third power, to the third power at least. The examples were here. But these examples don't convince you. You talk about it all the time, you refer to those past years. You're talking about the effects. Mr Tomczyk has shown what the effects of these companies are - several dozen percent down. But all of this is because the methods you're using are just hypocritical methods. The Minister didn't actually say anything here either. And these methods introduce, give you an example, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. On 22 March 2018 from this stand, Mr Stanisław Gawłowski asked about the case, which directly shows, charges the Prime Minister of Morawiecki, even as he was the president of the bank - about the bank grant for the foundation of priest Jegarskiego for life, provided that he transfers 96 thousand. Evil to Cornel Morawiecki. That's nepotism. And Prime Minister Morawiecki hasn't said anything so far, so it should be assumed that [[♪ The bell ♪]] I guess that's true, so it's unfortunately true about the PiS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u182	Thank you. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u183	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 21 November 2018 The Supreme Audit Chamber published a report on the rapid growth of donations provided by the Treasury companies. As you know, this form, this donation is the least advantageous form of support from the donor's perspective, is not related to the promotion of companies with advertising equivalent and is not subject to donor control. The Polish National Foundation will receive 633 million PLN by 2026. I have a few questions for you, Minister. What amounts of donations - to be fair, of course I also ask about earlier years, not only about the PiS governments - were transferred by the Treasury companies in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and during the first three quarters of 2018? Second question: To what entities of the State Treasury have these donations been given in the various years that I have mentioned? Third: Are there internal rules in these companies regarding the transfer of donations? The fourth question: If the third answer is that there is no answer, do you plan to harmonise the provisions on the transfer of donations by Treasury companies to various entities and institutions, private individuals? To the end, Your Marshal, Minister, I would like to say that we will check every donation, every donation we make, and every one of these Misiewiczs that you have filled in in the various companies of the Treasury, we will settle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u184	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Arkadius Myrch. But I don't see him in the O.R. I would therefore like to invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What we have in the local backyard is one thing. And from how a family is employed in public jobs, Poland has been famous throughout Europe since the PiS rule. Polish MEPs employ family members and acquaintances as their advisors and assistants. Yes, ma'am, don't laugh, miss. One of them employs as many as 17 people close to it in Poland, it is a record. Among the staff of the MEPs of PiS were so far: the daughter of the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Jacek Chaputowicz, the son of the Minister of Special Services coordinator Mariusz Kaminski, the actress from the film Smolensk and private partner of Jan Maria Tomaszewski. Marcin Skrzypek, the son of Mrs Barbara, who has been the secretary of Kaczyński's president for 30 years, and Karolina Tomaszewska, daughter of the president's cousin Jan Tomaszewski. We could be counting for a long time. For 18 MEPs, there are now 35 people employed in Brussels and 163 people in Poland. You are making a mockery of Poland on a European scale. How embarrassing are you? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha, ha.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u186	I invite Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the club... near Modernzno, to the last speech at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u187	Mrs Mashalkini! I hope the wheel's coming up soon, and that's gonna change in a little while. High Seym! At the moment there is a protest of Action Democracy against political corruption in front of the Marshal's Office in Wroclaw. This protest is one of the many evidences that self-government policy, but also politics in general, makes today a departure from democratic standards, from such a status of work in local institutions, which really undermines the rules of this work. We have dealt with an extreme and scandalous situation. On 17 June 2017, the CBA entered all marshal offices to investigate how previously elected local authorities managed EU money. But that was an excuse. These checks lasted for a long time, they were burdensome, they were sternly precise or they tried to be precise. They obviously had a political dimension. Today we are also dealing with political corruption in Silesia, where Mr Pułuża has become a symbol of political corruption. These are the standards that apply today in the Republic of PiS. We do not want a country that uses such criteria. This is something that taunts democracy, as well as citizens and citizens who deeply believe in their democratic choices. I think it's time to step away from the form of bribery for positions, whether it's party, whether it's self-government, or it's parliamentary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u188	Thank you very much. This speech completes the list of persons who have signed up to speak at this point in the Sejm meeting. In that case, I invite Mr Piotr Apel to speak as the representative of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u189	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Way of Youth! We have been living in a time, in principle since 1989 and before, in which you have no future, unless you have a cousin, a brother, a father who is in the ruling party. You'll be making $4,000 after school. $5,000, tops. zł, and your peers, who have colleagues who have parents, will get 25 thousand, plus the euro, because they have a minister's dad. Yeah, that's what power wants, that's what parliamentarians want, and that's what they do. What pisses me off is that we're in a situation where, as politicians, we have to decide how we're going to affect our families and whether we can help them very much or just a little bit. How is it that the interests of our friends or friends of politicians are more important than the interests of the Republic of Poland? What's the logic of hiding what you're trying to hide without revealing the family connections of people who just because of nepotism, political corruption or guys get positions? What is the interest of the Republic of Poland? What's your business if you don't want to reveal it? Are you ashamed? That's right, because if you're doing something wrong, you should be ashamed, and if you're doing something good, if you can boast about the results, you should tell me about it, and the minister doesn't come out with his head down and suddenly I hear it, it's basically the interest of those employed people that it's not really much to say. No, it is only the interests of citizens that matter, only that we as representatives of Parliament, that we as Poles, as paying taxes, as keeping us all here, will know whether someone got a position, because he is a cousin, a brother, a colleague, or because he has the right competence to do so. [[Applause]] That's the key, that's the most important thing. All the questions that have been raised today have shown that the problem exists, does not exist only in the PiS, in the government, exists in the local governments, and one, and the other, that the phenomenon has been going on for us, our country for many, many years and makes us all as citizens poorer, because the money that should serve citizens serves some kind of situation. And all of a sudden it turns out that there's a chess machine here and we're not doing a bill because now it's suddenly no longer important to us, because it's gonna come out that my buddy got a position that's just not what it needs to be, which isn't in line with his skills. Courage and such true honesty, and I wish the Minister a little time to get acquainted with this project, because it really is not that long, it is not Tolkien's reading, but rather such a novel. High Izbo! We are in a situation where we can say and we must tell all those who are getting pensions - today the government commended: 1100 zł, but gross, 1100 zł is a minimum pension - to all those who are getting a minimum salary, to all those who are suffering from a deficiency, that we want to play open cards, that these positions, which are dependent on government, government, those positions that are in foundations, those positions which are in some government-funded organisations, are selected for their benefit, and not that they are being taken from their wallet, from this damn low tax-free amount. After all, for God's sake, we tax miserable people who live below the poverty line. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, we tax people living below the poverty level because the tax-free amount is 3000 PLN, which is 500 PLN a month, right? [[About.]] So below the poverty level, and if someone lives like this, we're still taking the tax. For what? Member, aren't you ashamed? We're taking away their salary so our colleagues can have positions? For God's sake... [[Your Marshal...]] I ask that the Minister respond, or the CBA, which is the service called upon to do so, is... [[I've been insulted.]] ...on nepotism, on guys, on how many cases there are and on whether any... [[But what is it?]] ...actions in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u190	Thank you very much. Welcome to the floor of the Secretary of State... [[Mr Pierce, a little culture.]] I do not give you, Madame, your vote. [[Just please instruct the Member here about personal culture.]] Please take the floor of the Secretary of State, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u191	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Applicant! I'd like to hit my chest here. I assure you that I will get to know your project as soon as possible. As a lawyer, I love reading interesting projects, and I also love reading the Tolkien format, as you said. [[Applause]] As I understand this project has a slightly lighter format, so I think I will already have knowledge about it in the coming days. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The debate was extremely long. It took eight pages to record the most important issues that were raised in this debate, to be honest, so I will not have a chance to address everything in these 9 minutes. Fortunately, some of these statements were comments or opinions. Next - Mr Waldemar Buda asked about the results of the Treasury companies. I'd just like to record it in a few cases. [[Azotes, Azotes.]] I will refer to the Azoths again, Mr. President. 2017 - wait a minute, unfortunately there are small numbers here - PKN Orlen, 6 billion profit. Cargo railroads have also made a profit, for the first time in history. As far as the Azota Group is concerned, I wanted to say one thing - the result of this group is related to certain fixed costs, e.g. with the price of gas. However, I would like to stress that we are not going to sell this company, so we still have time to improve the financial results. There is a good chance of that, because, I remind you, gas sources will be diversified, which will also translate into the value of the Azoty Group's shares. Mr Cezary Tomczyk mentioned a number of cases here, and I just wanted to remind you, because many people asked about Mr Kacpra Kaminski's case that he was employed at the World Bank. There is no institutional connection between the government of the Republic of Poland, the President of the Council of Ministers and the World Bank. [[And between the NBP president and...?]] Technically, I don't see it. [[And who was appointed by President Glapiński?]] Do you see any formal connection between the National Bank of Poland and the World Bank? [[But who reported it?]] Ask Mr. Glapiński that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u192	Mr... [[But who reported it? Santa Claus? Santa Claus.]] Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mrs Krynicka pointed out a number of irregularities concerning the construction of the list of the Civil Platform in Gliwice. I just wanted to say that one speech in this debate attracted my particular attention, this was a speech by Mr Po-KO from the Parliamentary Club - I apologise very much, this is a new name for me too - Tomasz Cimoszewicz. Mr Cimoszewicz referred here to the actions carried out in the 1990s by a minister of justice. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] I would like to stress one thing: that Mr Cimoszewicz is taking advantage of the achievements, by his name, of the social trust which his father Waldemar Cimoszewicz was bestowed on him, I absolutely do not condemn. [[Vladimir.]] Vladimir Cimoszewicz. I'm a Podlasian... I absolutely do not condemn this, but it is very characteristic that the Member was willing to hide the fact that this Minister of Justice, whom he referred to in his speech, was his father. [[Voice from the room: There it is. Yeah, it is.]] As Minister, he was his father. [[Voice from the hall: So what? So what?]] Well, there is silence in this matter by Mr Cimoszewicz characteristic. [[Voice from the room: Double standards.]] Mr Sławomir Nitras focused on his question on the subject of Azots. I've already explained this case. I hope it's confirmed. Besides, the financial result of Azotów is, you can say, unique against the background of the financial results of other large companies of the Treasury such as PZU, PKO, LOT, Regional Transport - the latter, I repeat, for the first time have achieved profit in their history as a company. Mr Marek Owa from the PO-KO Parliamentary Club also asked about Mr Kacpra Kaminski. I've already answered that. Mrs. Chasing from the Kukiz Club 15 asked for a system ban. I would very much like to lean, as I said, over your project and over the bans that are foreseen there. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz asked about the rules in force in municipal companies. Mr President, they are exactly the same as the rules I have been talking about, which are set out in the Law on the Management of State Property. These rigors are extended, extended also to municipal companies. Madame Hanayan of the PO-KO Parliamentary Club... [[Poko.]] ... PO-KO, let's not confuse with a certain treasure company... [[Room's easier.]] [[Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. Is it that hard to remember? Unless you have another purpose.]] ...and a number of charges against Mr Matuszewski. I would just like to inform you that, according to my knowledge, the Member has brought an action before the court on this matter and that the case will be resolved at this level. Mr Masłowski asked about the bill - that is what I have already referred to. Mrs Cicholska asked about restrictions for members of political parties' bodies. All I can do is repeat what I said before that... [[I asked about Mr. Ziobra, about my brother and wife. Minister...]] Mr President, please don't interrupt me. Marshal, I'm continuing my statement. As regards the limitation of the candidate's role, this is the fact that he is a social collaborator, employment in the parliamentary, senator's, parliamentary and senator's office or the office of a Member of the European Parliament, entry into the body of a political party representing the political party outside and employment on the basis of a contract of employment by a political party. These are the restrictions that Mrs Cicholska asked about. Now it is time for Mr Rutnicki's questions. Mr President, your questions need to be reviewed. The answer will be given in writing. [[That's in writing, please. Thank you very much.]] Mr Jachnik from the Kukiz club15 made a kind of comment, as did Jerzy Gosiewiski, who described the situation in the restructuring agency for previous governments. Mr Gadowski from the PO-KO Parliamentary Club described the situation in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. I would like to say that Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa has improved its financial results recently, actually during the functioning of the Government of Law and Justice, by 500%. This score is 500% better. Mr Szramka made a comment. Mrs Burzyńska asked how the remuneration of members of the Board of Directors of State Treasury companies has evolved in previous governments compared to today. I wanted to point out that Mr. Wirth earned PLN 2.4 million in KGHM, Mr. Tailor in Orlena - PLN 6 million and Mr. Klesyk in PZU - PLN 3.2 million. Million. Currently, the heads of these institutions earn a fraction of this amount. I would just like to remind you that the average wage is down to 15 in the national economy. I have already referred to Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz. Mr Maciejewski of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 asked about the actions of the CBA. That's a question for the Minister of Coordinator. I can only say that the last very decisive action of the CBA against each of the doubts that arose with the action of the various [[♪ The bell ♪]] companies, institutions... May I have a moment of extension, please? Yes. I'm extending it by two minutes. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Thank you, Marshal. They are known to all, are very determined and are blind to any political circumstances. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And has not specific investigative action been taken against the former KNF president? [[No, an MP's activity in KNF, does the Member have the right... in KNF?]] The Member shall have the rights granted to him by the Constitution and by the Act implementing the mandate of the Member and the Senator. I move on to the question that Mrs Ewa Szymańska submitted to you about who has an impact on the employment of executives in the Treasury companies. Of course, this is influenced by the supervisory board, which is subject to a number of limitations, which I have already mentioned, by the opinion of the board on company matters, of which the supervisory board He can turn to you anytime. Mr Szczerba. In his speech, I felt such frustration because I did not attend Mrs. Barbara Skrzypek's namesake celebrations. Mr. Speaker! You can always sign an elegant name card and send it to Nowogrodzka, the address is known. [[Applause]] The rest of you... [[You'll keep your feelings to yourself, Minister. It's so fancy.]] I will keep to myself the further part of Mr Honourable's commentary. [[It's not elegant, really.]] The Member tells me about elegance after the content of a religious song has been paralyzed, right? [[It's not parody, it's quoting. I quote...]] Let's make a deal, sir, that I will not be taking advice and lessons from you on elegance. [[Applause]] [[But it was a quote. Don't lie to me.]] By the end of the day... Mr Cieślinski asked about the professional career of President Orlen Daniel Obajtek. I'm very happy with this career. I know Daniel Obajtek well. Both as Mayor of Pcimia... [[The ghetto.]] Uh, Pcima's uncle. He has proven himself very well in this position and has therefore become the head of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation, and has also proven himself in this position. [[Career's a little dizzy. What about energy compensation?]] And as for the financial results... [[What about energy compensation?]] The Member interrupts me. As for the financial results of PKN Orlen under President Obejtek, I have already told you. I think that President Obajtek will bring much more good to the Polish state in various other positions. [[Applause]] [[Just like Energa did. Damages.]] I am convinced of this and congratulations to President Objtkowi from this place. Thank you, Minister. Is that all, as I understand it? Yes? Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's all. Please accept my explanations. [[Applause]] [[And the answer for me? To my question about donations?]] Thank you very much. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. Before we begin the next point, you will allow me to welcome the students from the University to this time. Adam Mickiewicz in Poznań. I wish you a positive experience and a successful stay in Warsaw. [[Applause]] The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft laws: amending the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws, as well as amending the Law on Excise Tax and Customs Law. The reports shall be printed in No 3090 and 3103 respectively. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws (prints No. 2787 and 3064). Mr Gosievski will present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u193	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I have the honour to present a report on the draft law amending the Public Finance Act and certain other laws contained in print No. 3064, the original printing is printing No. 2787. The proposed law aims to rationalise the possibility of government debt, to make their financial economy more flexible and to strengthen legal mechanisms to increase financial security. The proposed amendments to the Public Finance Act of 27 August 2009 can be divided into three groups. Firstly, these are changes that rationalise the debt process in local governments and increase the spending space, secondly, changes in the flexibility of financial economies, thirdly changes in the control of debt levels. Changes that rationalise the debt process in local governments and increase the spending space allow restructuring and early repayment of the debt of local government units. At present, the possibility of debt restructuring depends on the surplus in the current part. If the local government unit does not have an adequate current surplus over the last 3 years, it cannot repay the debt. However, the self-government may have resources from e.g. the repayment of a loan that could be used to repay debts. Therefore, it is justified to allow local government units to repay the debt in advance, in particular if the local government unit has financial resources in a given year. As a result of the proposed changes of the local government unit, which in the past have incurred less favourable commitments, they will be able to convert them into more favourable ones, which is economically justified. The comparison of liabilities and the determination of the lower total cost of service will take place taking into account all costs that an entity is required to pay throughout the repayment period. On the basis of the data provided by the local authorities, the Regional Audit Chamber will assess the fulfilment of the condition regarding the lower cost of service of the undertaking. Where a local government unit has other non-refundable resources in a given financial year - e.g. funds from privatisation - local government units will be able to allocate them to cover the budget deficit. The solutions put in place, allowing early repayment of debt in the event of local government holding funds for this purpose, make their financial economy more flexible and at the same time reduce public debt and the cost of handling it. The proposed regulations apply only until early repayment of the debt, i.e. to be repaid over the years beyond the financial year for which the budget has been adopted and only to be repaid during the financial year. This is due to the need to maintain the possibility of effectively verifying the realisticness of the forecast of the debt of the local government unit in the context of the existing debt repayment limit. The change will result in an increase in the space for spending by local government units. Thanks to the solutions contained in the bill, financial resources may be released in the following years, for example. for local government investments. Changes in the flexibility of the financial economy are designed to enable the executive body of the local government to make changes in the budget and in the long-term financial forecast of the entity in connection with the implementation of projects financed by European funds. The proposed amendments introduce the possibility of authorising the Management Board by an authority representing a local authority to amend the limits of commitments and expenditure for the implementation of a project financed by European funds or other measures in connection with changes in the implementation of this project, provided that these changes do not adversely affect the budgetary result for each year covered by the forecast. This proposal will allow for maximum flexibility and speeding up the spending of resources by local authorities for the implementation of financial projects financed by European funds and other non-refundable measures. The third group represents changes in debt control. The aim of these changes is to strengthen the legal mechanisms for the financial security of the local government unit. The existing legal mechanisms to reduce and monitor the level of debt of local government units are insufficient, above all, in relation to the so-called. non-standard financing instruments. This should be considered a dangerous situation, since the use of the instruments in question on a wider scale could lead to an uncontrolled increase in local government debt, as well as a significant distortion of data showing the financial situation of the local government unit concerned. Currently, as a result of the debt allocation outside the area of known debt instruments and the creation of new structures creating liabilities with the characteristics of a credit or loan that do not fall within the sphere of income and income settlements, there has been a reduction in the possibility of limiting the level of debt. It should be noted that debt obligations - loans other than loans - are also reimbursed for expenditure and are not subject to the direct limitation laid down in Article. 243 laws. This applies e.g. leases, reverse sales, debt restructuring contracts, including instalments, forfaiting, non-named contracts with a maturity of more than one year, relating to the financing of services, supplies and works which have economic effects similar to the loan or loan agreement. After the changes contained in the proposed act, all the above operations will be subject to the statutory limit. This will ensure that regional accounting chambers can effectively perform their supervisory and control functions. Such a solution will counter the over-indebtedness of local government units and allow for circumvention of the debt repayment limit. Expanding the catalogue of commitments that an entity will require to obtain the opinion of a regional clearing house, it is proposed to exclude the application of the regulation to those liabilities whose value does not exceed 0,5% by extending the catalogue of liabilities that it will require to obtain the opinion of a regional clearing house, other than debt loans - loans and loans - loans. current revenue, provided that the sum of commitments entered into during the financial year does not exceed 1% the planned current income, as well as those which are short-term and subject to repayment or redemption in the same year in which it was incurred or issued. The absence of such a restriction would lead to a situation in which a local government unit would be obliged to obtain the opinion of a regional clearing house each time even in the case of small amounts of such commitments. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first reading of the Government's draft law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws, print No 2787, took place at the joint committee meeting on 11 September 2018. Work in the subcommittee, which I had the honour of chairing, was completed on 22 November this year. The report referred to above. We adopted the joint committees on 4 December 2018. During the work of the subcommittee, we introduced several amendments, mainly legislative and editorial. At the committee meeting, the draft law was supplemented by an article. 6 which amends Annex 2 in the Act of 23 October 2018 amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act. The amendment of this annex introduces symmetry between solutions in the PIT Act and the CIT Act. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I request that the Commission's report on the draft law amending the Public Finance Act and certain other laws be adopted in print No. 2787. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u194	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Come on up to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the club Law and Justice to present an opinion on the government draft law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws, print no. 2787 and 3064. This project concerns the introduction of legal solutions to enable restructuring and early repayment of the debt of local government units and the strengthening of legal mechanisms to enhance their financial security. Since the rapporteur has brought the draft law forward in very detail, let me just briefly mention that the proposed amendments are divided into three groups. The first group consists of changes that rationalise the debt process of local governments. The aim is to enable local authorities to pay early commitments that have often been made under adverse financial conditions so that they can be restructured at a better interest rate. The second group of changes are changes to make the financial economy more flexible. In this case, the aim is to enable the executive body of the local government to make changes to the budget - and so far only the bodies that could do so - and in the long-term financial forecast of the entity in connection with the implementation of projects financed by European funds. The third group of proposed changes concerns the control of the level of debt of local government units. I will not mention the mechanisms that have been set out here, because the rapporteur has brought this closer, but I will mention that sealing the system of limiting the debt of local governments is very important. Many local authorities have indebted more than enough in recent years, de facto using legal gaps, which has led to the fact that the use of non-standard financing instruments has not been controlled by regional clearing houses. This was not taken into account within the limits of debt and some local governments were in debt far beyond the possibility of any repayment in the future, sometimes local governments were bankrupt. The point is not to let this happen in the future. These were also recommendations, recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which controlled the debt of local government units, as well as the National Regional Council of the Courts of Auditors. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I present a positive opinion on the draft law, of course, and I ask your Members to adopt this law, but I also make one amendment on behalf of the club. The formula that is contained in the article. 1 point (11) (a) And the bill's draft, there's been a mistake. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 24 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the law amended in the draft law is given the formula in which the sum is given on the right, and was to be, as is apparent from the rule which is previously written, the arithmetic mean of 7 years. So we're going to multiply by 1/7, so we're essentially taking out the arithmetic mean. That's the amendment I'm putting in your hands, Marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u196	Thank you, sir. There is no Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska from the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition club, and there is no Mr Andrzej Maciejewski from the Kukiz club15, who volunteered to speak at this point. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski from the Polish People's Party - the European Union of Democrats made a written statement. Likewise, Mr Mirosław Pampuch of Modern. Do any of your messengers and your fellow Members wish to join the questioning list? I don't see any calls. I'm closing the list for that. We begin with Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute. Please, sir, ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u197	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm very happy for this bill. I admit that I was one of the former self-governments who worked in the commune and wanted to pay off, and they couldn't. We finally have the opportunity. I'm glad she's 7-year-old. On the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to three aspects. First, is it possible to include in the model for the sale of assets? This would improve the capacity of the municipality. The second case concerns a rating. We have a rating for you, we talk about it very often. Could the Regional Audit Chamber be based on such a rating? And art. 89. I know he's not being processed right now. The current wording does not regulate borrowing for many years. The point is that the legal basis gives you the opportunity to take a loan for a year. Someone might stick around and tell you what the legal basis is if you take a loan, for example. from the Voivodship Environmental Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no legal basis. Shouldn't we think about it on this occasion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u198	Thank you. And the second question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. During the work in the committee, an amendment was made to the Act of 23 October 2018 amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on taxation and certain other laws. What is the effect and purpose of the amendment contained in Article. 6 committee reports and is this change beneficial to the taxpayer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u200	We begin with the response of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr. Tomasz Robaczyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u201	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! With regard to the questions of your Members, I will address the issue of property, because this is the most sensitive topic that has been discussed many times in the working groups and joint committee, the financial team, and has also been discussed many times in the roundabout discussions, including with representatives of local governments. Firstly, this provision enters into force in 2026 and is therefore appropriate for vacathio legis to adapt to the fact that the sale of assets will not affect the improvement of local government rates. As the Ministry of Finance, we stand in the position that really the sale of assets is not something that should provide the basis for improving the performance of the current local government. It is known that the real estate resources in different local governments are different, but in general it is a bit like in the case of consumer loans, i.e. It's hard to expect banks or financial institutions to consider credit as an opportunity... It's about being able to pay off. Of course, there are mechanisms that make such credit obligations asset-backed, whereas it is not taken into account when assessing the creditworthiness of the fact that such assets can be sold and that it is actually a component of multi-annual income, all the more so because we are talking about a multi-annual period here. Therefore, such activities lead de facto to the sale of local government assets. This fortune will end someday. He is limited in scope, this income from the sale of assets is limited in scope. In our view, when assessing the financial capacity of the local government, the possibility of borrowing, borrowing and using other financial instruments of a debt nature should be taken into account such current, rotating capacity of the local government to repay its liabilities, i.e. it is de facto the day-to-day management of the local government, not the use of a resource that is owned by the local government. So that we stand in the position - as I say, it was the subject of long studies and discussions with the local government, therefore this term vacathio legis is extended - that the property should not serve to improve the financial assessment, financial capacity of the local government. As far as ratings are concerned, perhaps such solutions could be introduced in a supportive manner. The Regional Audit Chamber gives an opinion on all budgets and the general capacity of the local government to repay commitments or the general finances of the local government. Perhaps the rating could indeed be such a supporting element, but in fact the RIO is obliged to test it on its own, not solely based on opinions or assessments of other entities. Of course, it can be used as a helper, but it should still check the financial condition of the local government in its own way and with its own strength. As far as borrowing or borrowing is concerned for more than one year, here, of course, we are dealing with a situation such as the whole of public finances, i.e. we have an annual budget and annual closure of accounts, balance sheets, etc., while there are instruments that allow us to make commitments for more than one year. This is also due to the day-to-day activities of these entities. The same is true for the state budget and other entities, i.e. it is assumed that such commitments may be made for a longer period and must then be included in the budgets for each year. It may indeed be appropriate to consider a general provision on multiannual commitments, but this should be done in the framework of the general reform of public finances that we are conducting or which project is being prepared in the Ministry of Finance. This is the block of changes that concern the multiannual financial forecast and the transition from the annual budget to the multiannual financial framework as more binding and more binding. So that this is a change that should possibly be introduced together with such a more comprehensive change. I think that's all the answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u202	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I invite you to answer the rapporteur of the committee by Mr Gosievski, because the question was also addressed to him. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u203	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two issues concern my role as rapporteur. The first is the amendment tabled by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, tabled by Mr Piotr Uściński. She's a writer's mistake. It is advisable that we improve this and today, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, which will start at noon. 2.30 p.m., we will proceed to the proposed amendment and accept it. On the other hand, as regards the professional question by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz concerning the amendment made at that time in Article. 5, and today in the report in print No 3064, that is Article. 6, it was the Member who asked for a justification. I therefore inform you that the amendment tabled by this amendment concerns Annex 2 of the Act of 23 October this year. on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Tax Ordination Act and some other laws. It is mainly intended to maintain consistency, i.e. symmetry, between the solutions provided for in the PIT Act and the CIT Act. As a result of the proposed amendment, the list of low value added services will be supplemented by category 8, i.e. for administrative and office services. This change is beneficial because that is also what you have asked, for taxpayers, because it extends the scope of the Article. 11f of the CIT Act, which specifies cases of withdrawal by the Authority from determining the taxable person's income or loss as regards the amount of the mark-up on the cost of services with low added value. It is therefore permissible to make this change with less than 30 days of vacathio legis. This change was introduced at the meeting of the Joint Committees, the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on 4 December this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u204	Thank you, sir. After this speech, I close the discussion on this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the name of the Circle of Poselski I am proud to present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Public Finance Act and some other laws, prints no. 2787 and 3064. The aim of the proposed project is to rationalise the possibility of government debt, to make their financial economy more flexible and to strengthen legal mechanisms to increase financial security. The proposed regulations allow restructuring and early repayment of the debt of local government units. Currently, debt restructuring is dependent on surplus in the current part. If the local government unit does not have an adequate current surplus over the last 3 years, it cannot repay the debt in the event of additional resources, e.g. from the repayment of the loan granted. There is no doubt that allowing local government units to repay debt early if they have financial resources for this purpose will make the financial economy of local government units more flexible. As a result, a reduction in public debt and the cost of handling it is expected. Currently, only a body which is able to modify expenditure on the implementation of multiannual projects financed by EU funds. In order to make the financial economy more flexible, the projector proposes to allow the executive body of the local government to make changes to the budget and to the entity's multiannual financial forecast in connection with the implementation of projects financed by European funds. The project submitted to increase the financial security of local government units proposes the introduction of statutory restrictions for so-called. non-standard financing instruments. As a result, liabilities that have economic effects similar to the loan or loan agreement will be subject to similar constraints. Further changes focusing on the possibilities of debt of local government units include. covering the debt limit of all debt service costs, not just interest on loans. In addition, income from the sale of assets will be eliminated when calculating the individual debt ratio. The proposed solutions do not raise much controversy. It is a pity, however, that the designer did not seek further changes. In the entire structure of the state's finances, including the local government, no modern formula was developed for the 21st century, so local governments rightly expect more significant reforms. To conclude my statement, I would like to inform you that the Members of Modern Affairs will vote in favour of the proposal currently being submitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u206	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I will present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on public finances, prints No. 2787 and 3064. First of all, it should be noted that the project concerns the debt of local government units, its early repayment and debt restructuring. An important issue is the government's approach to the functioning of a broad-based local government. Unfortunately, over the last 3 years of the PiS government, the local government has been systematically deprived of its tasks, and it is widely known that for the smooth functioning of the state the local government is the most important thing. Self-government, which is closest to the citizen, to whom the inhabitants have a direct influence, is an overriding value. The limitation of the tasks of the local government, or actually the transfer of its tasks to the level of government, is fatal. The system centrally planned already in the history of Poland has been present and has not gone into history as an effective solution, on the contrary. Giving orders from Warsaw, which is to be implemented by a small community, will always prove to be a wrong solution. There is also a question of project proceding. The personal composition of the subcommittee examining the project should be considered inadmissible. The subcommittee should reflect the composition of all clubs in the Sejm, but there was no place for Mr PSL-UED. What is the point of setting up a subcommittee composed of three members of the clubs? I ask that such situations should not take place in the future, as this perverts the meaning of work. Turning to the details of the project, the proposed changes relate mainly to the creation of mechanisms to strengthen the financial stability of individual local governments. In particular, by introducing additional constraints on local authorities' commitments and strengthening the efficiency of the debt ratio as an institution to prevent over-indebtedness of the JST. The solutions contained in the project may also affect economic development in the area specific to the local government units. Self-governments, if they do not have an adequate current surplus of the last three years, cannot, in accordance with the law, repay the debt, which constitutes a significant reduction in the conduct of the financial economy. It is good that this restriction will be lifted. It is important to combat situations where the debt of the local government units concerned is a threat to their functioning. The cases of liquidation of the municipalities that we have not been dealing with for so long should not occur. I believe that any attempt to improve the financial situation is right and worthy of support. The mechanism to include financial liabilities similar to the loan agreement or loan in the calculation of the individual debt repayment rate will prevent the creation of artificial, invisible debt levels. High Izbo! The proposed amendments should be considered reasonable and desirable. The amendments contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Act, both to the extent that they address the rationalisation of local government debt, to the flexibility of their financial economy and to the strengthening of legal mechanisms to enhance the financial security of local government units. Finally, cooperation between government and local government is necessary. Instrumental treatment of the self-government party is unacceptable and this causes mutual misunderstandings which should be avoided. The comments of the local government in the framework of the work on projects must be taken very seriously by listening to the voice of local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u207	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (prints No 3080 and 3097). Mrs Anna Paluch will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u208	Thank you very much. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The draft is contained in print No 3080 and the report of the joint committees is published in print No 3097. High Izbo! On 10 January of this year, the Sejm passed a law constituting a legal framework for preparing for the COP 24 conference in Poland. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this law is set at PLN 30 million as a total amount intended to provide support to developing countries for climate change mitigation and adaptation to the effects of these changes as part of the implementation of the objectives of the Climate Convention, through the Green Climate Fund or the Adaptation Fund, or through bilateral assistance programmes. The beneficiaries of this support are therefore indicated. However, in the case of both the Green Climate Fund and the Adaptive Fund, the management and management of these funds shall be carried out by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thus, in order to avoid doubting the party with whom the support agreement would be concluded, the amendment to Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 states that a trust organisation may be a party to this agreement. There is also an extension of the range of fundingable entities, apart from the Green Climate Fund and the Adaptation Fund, by adding words, I quote: or through other multilateral development funds. In addition, it is deleted that the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management allocates funds in 2018, which means that money that was not transferred in 2018 will be able to be transferred until the Act is in force, i.e. also in 2019. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 32 new paragraphs are added to this project. 5.7. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 provides that the support referred to in paragraph 1 shall be provided. 1, is based on agreements concluded as international agreements, in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 14 June 2000 or as private law agreements. According to the next mouth added. 6 The conclusion of a private law agreement requires the approval of the Council of Ministers. And your lips. 7 provides that, within 14 days of its conclusion, this private law agreement shall be communicated to the Council of Ministers. High Izbo! Poland is holding the COP Presidency for the fourth time and is hosting a conference of the Parties to the Climate Convention for the third time. We attach great importance to achieving the long-term objective of an agreement, which is to achieve a balance between anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions and their absorption by biosystems, either by reaching or at the peak of emissions, and then by reducing them, or in other forms. Poland encourages all parties to take advantage of the opportunity of the Talanoa Dialogue, to intensively implement the Paris Agreement, to review the effectiveness of policies implemented and to cooperate, to support actions in different countries. Poland, as the organiser of COP24, the Conference of the Parties to the Climate Convention, organises a high-level ministerial dialogue on climate finance, namely on reduction measures, on the continuation of joint action by States Parties to the Climate Convention. Therefore, joint and several participation in financial support for poorer countries in climate protection is building our credibility. High Izbo! The changes contained in this draft should be made as quickly as possible, therefore Article. 2 provides that the law shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. The changes under investigation, I will remind you, do not result in the need to mobilise any new public funds, but merely clarify the way in which the already allocated amount is mobilised. The changes contribute to the effective implementation of the Act of 10 January this year, the Act on the Organisation of the Conference of the Parties, and this will strengthen the positive image of Poland in the international forum as a state of stable, reliable fulfilment of commitments, supporting other partners in adapting to climate change and building low-carbon, climate-resistant economies. High Izbo! This amendment to the Act of 10 January 2018 is not covered by European Union law, nor does it regulate matters falling within the scope of European Union law. High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to the provisions of Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the draft print No 3080 to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for First Reading, which I discussed a moment ago. Both committees, following their first reading at the meeting on 12 December, namely yesterday, and a detailed discussion of this project, request that the Sejm adopt the draft law that I have discussed, contained in print No 3080, without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u209	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. And I invite you to speak on behalf of the club Law and Justice of Mr Czesław Sobierajski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u210	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present to you a position regarding the draft law amending the Law on Special Arrangements for Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The project concerns the clarification of the way in which the funds allocated to supporting climate change mitigation and adaptation to the effects of these changes carried out in the framework of the achievement of the objectives of the Climate Convention, through the Green Climate Fund or the Adaptation Fund, or through bilateral assistance and the extension of the scope of beneficiaries of support from the Republic of Poland. Since Mrs Anna Paluch, the rapporteur of the committee, has discussed all the details in detail, I will not repeat this. I'm just gonna say, by the end of the day, that our contribution is 30 million. It is a relatively large contribution, so I hope that we will also participate in the division, which is in other words, that one of the members of the management board of this fund should be a representative of Poland. I hope that happens. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill's draft amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u211	Thank you. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. I'd like to invite you to the podium to present the position of the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club regarding the bill. This is a draft law, not as the rapporteur, the government, said, but a strange, parliamentary draft, which has already changed the government's presentation for the second time. I would like to remind you that on 10 January, a government project was proposed which was extremely governing the organisation of the summit, the justification of which was accompanied by legal opinions, that such a solution was completely unnecessary, because there are sufficient legal regulations for this organisation to be carried out. Moreover, the previous summits were organised without special legal arrangements. The same project was changed again a few months later in July, also from the government's submission. We are currently dealing with a change that is to enter into force immediately after the adoption. This is a change that is basically not dictated by any reliable premise. What is it about? Neither the facts nor the legal situation have changed. It concerns amendments to the provisions which allow the Minister for the Environment to provide financial support to countries not listed in Annex I to the Climate Convention in the framework of international cooperation in matters covered by this Convention. Already in its first submission, the Legislative Office considers that this issue, although relevant to the subject-matter of the bill, is not directly related to COP24 and should not be found here at all, and it should also be noted that in this area the legislator has already made certain arrangements and is a regulation on environmental law, which allows the funds of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to be allocated to this purpose in connection with the Convention on the Conference of the Parties to the Climate Convention. So that there are no indications. The second amendment concerns extending beyond the declarations made by Prime Minister Szydło the allocation of these funds. I would like to remind you that at the Paris Summit, Prime Minister Szydło declared $8 million on the Polish side for climate purposes, specifically the Green Climate Fund and the Adaptation Fund and bilateral agreements. Two enlargements are currently being sought. One thing - for other, unprecised multilateral agreements, because the issue of trust is technical and secondary. Secondly, private contracts are introduced without specifying what contracts they are intended to be for, for, and to whom they are intended. In addition, the spending period for the following year is being postponed. Let me just remind you that according to this law - as I said - and the legislators say - this is not necessary. These measures are to be transferred in the form of grants from the Ministry of the Environment and only to the recipients of the aid, so nothing prevents them from passing on to the Ministry of the Environment by the end of the year, on the one hand, and nothing happened, that between 5 December and 30 December, as far as these measures are concerned, their condition or way of transmission had suddenly changed. At that time, as I said, there were no actual or legal changes to make this happen. At the same time, in the justification of this project, I will remind you, the parliamentary, this episodeary act as if urgent, it is not known why, as a goal, it is indicated to perpetuate the positive image of Poland in the international forum. I will just remind you that this positive image costs Poles a considerable amount, because at least PLN 252 million are only funds from the national environmental fund, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, at the expense of other resources, and I would suggest that we focus more on not compromising ourselves with our money, and effectively and properly carry out this summit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u213	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Józef Brynkus from the Kukiz club15 will speak in a moment, who will present his position on behalf of the club. But before that happens, I welcome high school kids from the 6th High School that teaches them. Juliusz Słowacki in Kielce. [[Applause]] I wish you a pleasant stay and positive impressions here, in the Seym, but also during your visit to Warsaw. Happy birthday. [[Applause]] And now Mr Józef Brynkus and the position of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law amending the Law on special arrangements related to the organisation in the Republic of Poland of the session, etc., print No 3080. Climate change is a fact that no one can question. But no reasonable person can claim that it depends on human activity. If someone says so, they must notice that this is a minimal impact in practice. For many years, the idea of global warming has been widespread, while research has shown that, for example, global warming is taking place. The thickness of the Antarctic and Arctic ice cover has not changed for 100 years. If anything, we're dealing with a minimal increase in it over the last few years. Thus, the myth of global warming serves to draw taxpayers' money to various pseudo-ecological events. It would definitely be better if these measures went into nature conservation in a specific local environment, a Polish environment, because in this case, man affects them and very destructively himself. Meanwhile, the bill provides for the use of Polish taxpayers' money for the operation of the so-called. Green Climate Fund and Adaptation Fund, and others. What kind of institutions are these? Consider, for example, the Green Climate Fund. It is to raise funds for the protection of jobs in connection with the energy transformation of the world, i.e. the transition from the coal-based economy in developing countries to the so-called. clean energy, which is wrongly included in renewable energy sources. The fund was to raise about $100 billion since 2015, but has not yet raised up to 10 billion initial contributions, which is among others. related to President Trump's veto, which blocked the US payment of $2 billion promised to the fund by Barack Obama. This has triggered a contract between the European Union and, above all, Germany. Together, they press on the Member States of the European Union and others related to them to fill the gap after this decision of the President of the United States. The fact that this is the case is evidence of the passiveness of the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the joint session of the Commission's Seyms: Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and Foreign Affairs, who did not want to answer my question on the reasons for this legislation. To conclude - Poland, yes, should participate in various forms of nature conservation, because this is our future, our existence. And besides, conservation of nature, including air, is certainly cheaper than suffering the effects of its poisoning, in the form of treatment of diseases caused by it. But this cannot be done irrationally and at the expense of Polish taxpayers. By allocating funds to these funds, Poland in practice has no impact on their spending. This was also clear from the response of representatives of the Ministry of the Environment to Members' questions. It is better to allocate this PLN 30 million to replace furnaces in such a town as Wadowice. Certainly clean air will attract many tourists from all over the world who will tell about it to the papal city, and thus it will be better care for the image of Poland, better care for the ecological and climatic effect than in the case of spending the money of Polish taxpayers on the unknown which pseudo-ecological events and also still badly organized. The Kukiz Club15 is opposed to such a waste of money and will vote against this legislation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u215	Mrs Urszula Pasławska, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats has a negative opinion on this law. We have the impression that you are making a kind of dumpster from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. If there's a commitment, if there's a problem, if you need money, it's the easiest way to reach the resources from NFOŚiGW. Today, the NIK report shows how much in recent months, the resources for implementing environmental policy have been limited to air protection. Only in 2014, under our governments, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management spent PLN 1.2 billion on air protection. In 2016, only PLN 722 million were spent and in the first half of 2017. - only PLN 210 million. Meanwhile, it is estimated that about 48 thousand people die from smog in Poland. Poles. And in return, what do you finance? Well, from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, you finance, for example, the Fund for Self-Government Roads. Within 10 years 14 billion PLN will be allocated to local government roads. [[Member, let's get to the point.]] This is a very important topic, but you can explain to me what this has to do with environmental protection and what this has to do with the environmental dimension. Or even another project: 2 billion PLN are to be sent to the company of the State Treasury Polskie Domy Drewniane. You really are making a dump from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. You have submitted to the FACE, which are also limited today, it is clear that they do not give loans or grants and are not independent in implementing environmental policy. Going to the law itself - many questions arise here. First, will the deposit of PLN 30 million be one-off or cyclical? Secondly, will there be any advantage for Polish entrepreneurs, for Poland? These are environmental benefits, such as technology transfer, knowledge transfer. What countries will benefit from these measures? I do not know whether neighbouring countries or Eastern European countries will also be able to benefit from these measures. Will they be operated by public entities or by private entities? There are a lot of questions. The Act, which refers to a very important institution such as the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, should be of a governmental nature, should be submitted to it. On the other hand, it is written within a few days on the initiative of the European Parliament. This is ridiculous, and it concerns a very large amount, because 30 million PLN. Like I said, the club doesn't recommend this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club. I don't see your MP. Therefore, we move on to questions. Do any of your messengers or any of your fellow Members wish to join this list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. We begin by asking Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In connection with the withdrawal of the United States of America, among others. on the financing of the Green Climate Fund, is it of any real importance, and does our commitment to co-financing this project only apply until 2020? In the context of increasing burdens on our energy, this is important for every Pole. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u219	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u220	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We give a lot of money, now 30 million for climate policy, earlier almost 300 million for the COP24 convention. You're taking this money from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. You're stripping him of resources for real nature conservation. Why are you doing this? Will you give at least some money to Polish entrepreneurs to conduct a friendly business environment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u221	The last question at this point will be asked by Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the justification of this bill is the stated purpose of perpetuating the positive image of Poland during the climate summit. I wanted to ask if the preservation of the good image of Poland for this money - 252 million from the national fund and another 9 million from the budget of Katowice, and also many millions from coal companies that we are not yet aware of - was the evacuation before the summit of anti-terrorists from tents heated by combustion heaters, and not because of the warming of the climate, but because of the cold and smell. Is the consolidation of the positive image of Poland for this money a pavilion device in such technology toi toi, only a little larger, in which national stands and expositions were placed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u223	We should have finished this, Member. I didn't interrupt. I invite you to answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Ms Małgorzata Golińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Thank you for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The amendments contained in the amendment to the Act are in fact technical in nature and the objective pursued by the Act is to clarify the provisions of the Act and to confirm that the funds will be available not only in 2018 but also in 2019. From the point of view of public finances, this is a safe solution, it does not have any negative effects on the state of these finances. According to the Polish declaration of COP21, this appropriation will be used to contribute to the Green Climate Fund, in addition to the Adaptive Fund and the Trust Fund for Mobility and Logistics of the World Bank. It is worth noting if we are discussing Poland's position as the organizer of COP24, that Poland, taking over the Presidency in the framework of international negotiations, the climate negotiations on climate change, presented a number of initiatives, including three important declarations. All three accepted, because yesterday also the forest declaration was accepted by several dozen countries, yesterday's forest declaration. More than 60 countries joined it, highlighting the extremely important role of forests in climate change mitigation, the role of forests as sinks. I think it's worth remembering, too. Mrs. Marshal! Allow me not to refer to Mrs Lenartowicz's statement. Those were her personal feelings, which I find hard to comment on, because each of us has kind of different tastes. Therefore, I will allow myself not to go down to the level of the discussion that you have presented. [[Applause]] On the other hand, thank you very much for the substantive questions, although I will not be able to answer them all, because the participation of the United States is like a decision of a completely different country and it is difficult for me to take responsibility for what President Trump has decided. I can add from myself that since I had the opportunity to speak with representatives of delegations of various countries, with the heads of these delegations - I also know this from the representative of the President of Minister Paweł Salek, from Minister Kowalczyk, from the head of the Polish delegation of Minister Sławomir Mazurek and from the president of COP Michał Kurtyki - I know that when it comes to the organisation of COP, Poland is set as a model. This is also mentioned among those who have already participated in similar conferences, that this is so far the best organised COP. Therefore, I think that all as Poles, as citizens, should be glad that we have such an opinion among the foreigners coming to us. I see you're nodding your head. I don't know if he agrees with what I'm saying or doesn't agree with what the tourists think or if he's trying to curse reality. In any case, I think that today the most important thing is that negotiations are still ongoing, that Poland has already been a huge success, that we have adopted three important declarations. Thank you for the parliamentary project that clarifies the issue of financing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u225	Thank you, Minister. And I would like to invite you because she has indicated her willingness to speak, the representative of the applicants, Mrs Barbara Dziuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would very much like to thank the Ministry for Environmental Protection that it was allowed to clarify the issue of financing the COP24 Climate Summit in this law, because any doubts that arose following an examination of the current law had been resolved by the Ministry. We have clarified this so that everything is consistent with the legal regulations in force in Poland. I would like to refer to Mrs Lenartowicz's statement, although I will not lower myself to that level. This isn't an episode act. As a Member, I have the right to amend the law with a group of Members. This is a normal, applicable law in the Republic of Poland. And questioning these issues, I would say, the basic ones that took place at the meeting of the environmental committee, is unreasonable, even offensive, limiting my rights and striking the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! I also wanted to commend all the services working at the climate summit in Katowice. I was, I saw. It's really a very high level. And I can compare that because I was also a member of the previous summits. A great bow towards the Ministry of Environmental Protection and all those who were partners in the organization of such a great undertaking on an international scale. I really appeal to the total opposition so that together we take care of the environment, and thus the health of Poles, Poles, people living on our planet. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u227	And I invite you because she has expressed her wish to speak, yet Mrs Anna Paluch as rapporteur for the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, some speeches, both club speeches and questions, show that you have not fully read the draft in print 3080. I agree with you that this is a parliamentary project and I would like to express my great respect for my excellent colleague Mrs Dziuk, who was the representative of the applicants. I dare say that you have not read the project that we are discussing, nor have you listened to my speech. Firstly, when presenting the project, I made it clear that the changes being made - I will repeat this because I do not think that the representative of PSL has heard - does not result in any new public funding being mobilised, but merely clarifies the way in which the amount already available will be mobilised. I will say it again: we are not talking about any new measures. Now the second line. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, your PSL representative here was talking about spending money on wooden houses from the National Environmental Fund. I am informing you, and especially Mrs Pasławska, that wood is the best carbon storage. And as long as we were dealing with a situation a few years ago that the previous government was pushing through a bill that allowed carbon dioxide storage in underground chambers... Let's hope that when 100 euros for 1 t storage is spent and this carbon dioxide is pressed in there, he'll be sitting there politely, and he won't come out with the first better sealing. The best, cheapest and effective way to store carbon dioxide is wood, the correct forest economy, which deposits carbon dioxide. If we convert this carbon dioxide contained in the wood, first of all, local communities will have the task of breeding this forest, processing wood products and building wooden houses, and secondly, this carbon dioxide will be sitting there, in the cheapest and efficient way possible, will be stored there. I am explaining this so precisely, because Law and Justice have been calling for years to show common sense when it comes to climate issues. There is no doubt that there is conflict with common sense in saving energy, that is, all the activities that are used to prevent us from heating the atmosphere, but to keep the heat in the buildings. This is what the Clean Air Program is for. In addition, we are trying to ensure that local communities can develop in the context of climate action. That's what action is for, and I'm gonna say it again, and they don't argue with common sense. We are looking for rational elements in climate policy and we are implementing these elements. As regards these objectives, I would like to stress once again that Poland, which once again holds the Presidency in the framework of the climate conference, is demonstrating to other countries that climate-friendly technologies and modern solutions such as electromobility conducive to sustainable urban development, improved air quality and the development of modern jobs are elements of state policy that we should introduce. That's another line. At the center of all actions is man, i.e. All these changes required by climate policy must not be made against man, must result in the appreciation of the values of local communities, must enable people to find new activities and ways of life in problem areas. This transformation of regions and sectors that need to be changed must take place in a spirit of solidarity and in a fair way. It's the most important thing. Our asset is nature. Multifunctional and sustainable forest management is a very important element of climate neutrality, i.e. that forests are natural sinks of greenhouse gases. The Polish government supports synergies between the three conventions of united nations: the Convention on Biodiversity, the Convention against Desertification and the Climate Convention. These are important objectives of government action, which we have the honour of supporting, at least I am honored that this government supports in parliament. We are doing our work on the basis of common sense, bearing in mind the development of local communities, fair development. This is what this draft law is for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u229	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws (Prints No. 3081 and 3090). Mr Maciej Małecki will present the report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u230	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, the Committee on Energy and the Treasury has been working on this project and I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. The Commission recommends that this draft law be adopted by the High House without amendments, as this was the result of a committee meeting. No amendments have been tabled. The Commission recommended a positive adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u231	Thank you, sir. The Sejm has agreed that it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion on this agenda. So I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Maciej Małecki again to the speaker, who will present the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against the bill. We will vote in favour of the bill, because the draft merely clarifies the proper reference to the Combined Nomenclature codes. This appeal should refer to the European Commission Regulation of 2017, whereas the current provisions contain an appeal relating to the EEC Regulation of 1987. This may give rise to interpretation doubts and it is therefore necessary to clarify these provisions before they enter into force from 1 January 2019 in order to ensure that there are no interpretation doubts. This draft law does not have any financial implications on the part of the state budget, on the part of local governments. Nor does this amendment impose additional burdens. So I repeat: Law and Justice will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u233	Thank you, sir. I do not see Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, who was requested to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Club. So we go to the Kukiz Club15. I invite you to the speaker of Mr Sitarski, who will present the position of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 with regard to the draft law amending the Law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws, print No. 3081. So, yeah. The placing on the domestic market of motor fuels shall be subject to an issue fee. Motor fuels subject to the emission levy shall be motor gasoline of CN codes 2710 12 45, 2710 12 49 and, as regards point 2, gas oils of CN codes 2710 19 43, 2710 20 11. Of course, there is a project here which provides for the conversion of the codes for petrol and diesel fuels, taxed according to classification, into systems corresponding to the Combined Nomenclature. Pretty recently, an issue fee has been imposed on each litre of fuel. Kukiz, 15 was against it. We, of course, are not opposed to adjusting the changes in codes to the existing nomenclature. And here at this point, we will support this project as a purely technical project, but - just as Kukiz Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will present his position on behalf of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. I invite you to the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u236	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is typically a technical project, it is not controversial, so the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats supports the adoption of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u237	Thank you so much for putting your position in order. As far as the Modern Club is concerned, Mrs Monica Rosa presented her speech in writing. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list of people wishing to ask a question at this point? I can't see. So I'm closing the list. And Mr. Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, would you like to ask me a question? Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In reference to my statement on the issue fee, I would very much ask the Minister to tell me what tasks the low-carbon fund has carried out since its creation at this moment? Are there any specific goals for which these money has been transferred? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u239	I invite you to respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Mr. Tomasz Dąbrowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project that we are debating today is, in fact, purely technical in nature, changing the code that is in the designation for motor fuels and diesel fuels. And only to this extent do we amend the existing rules. On the other hand, as regards Mr Sitarski's question, I would like to point out that, in fact, spending money from the Low Carbon Transport Fund will only take place from 1 January next year. At the moment, this fee is not yet collected, this fund is only being created and the fund's financial plan is being prepared. Therefore, as far as I am aware, no expenses have yet been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u241	Thank you very much. The Committee rapporteur, Maciej Małecki, also expressed his wish to speak. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u242	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would stress once again that this amendment concerns provisions which have entered into force since 1 January 2019, because this was the assumption of a law which was adopted in June this year. Therefore, it is necessary to clarify these provisions that from 1 January next year, i.e. in less than 3 weeks, there should be no question of interpretation as to the codes of the Combined Nomenclature. For this reason, the committee recommends that the High House adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u243	Thank you very much. I will close the discussion after this speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the name of the Circle of Poselski I am proud to present my position on the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Law on amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, print No 3081 and 3090. The proposed amendment results from the need to amend the Act of 6 June 2018 amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, which amends the Act of 27 April 2001. The provision on the issue levy, which refers to obsolete CN codes, shall be amended. The Act will refer to the classification in the Agreement corresponding to the Combined Nomenclature (CN) in accordance with Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/1925 of 12 October 2017 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ 1987 L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Urz. EU L 282, 31.10.2017, p. 1) which entered into force on 1 January 2018. In the current wording, Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 3 refers, on the other hand, to classification in a system corresponding to the Combined Nomenclature (CN). As regards the classification under the relevant CN code, the legislator referred to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 of 23 July 1987 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ 1987 L 140, p. Urz. EC L 256, 07.09.1987, p. One, late. zm.; Dz. Urz. EU Polish Special Edition, Chapter 2, t. 2, p. 382, late. zm.). Failure to make the proposed amendment will raise doubts as to the possibility of collecting the issue fee from 1 January 2019. The proposed amendment is purely technical and will not cause any additional burden on taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u245	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act amending the Law on excise duty and the Customs Law (Prints No. 3084 and 3103). Mr Wiesław Janczyk will present a report to the committee. There isn't a Member yet, so I'm running a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 21 hours 14 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 18 of the agenda. Mr Wiesław Janczyk will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act amending the excise duty Act and the Customs Law, the original printing of Seym No. 3084. The Committee on Public Finance has today delivered an opinion on this document. One amendment was tabled to him, which was accepted by the committee, the Legislative Bureau and the representatives of the Minister of Public Finance. It shall apply to Article. 2, the date of entry into force of this law. It was synchronised with the date of entry into force of the amended law and was designated for the beginning of 2019. Other comments, in addition to detailed editorial comments in the course of the work of the Public Finance Commission, were not submitted for this project. The Commission welcomed the draft submitted for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u247	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Andrzej Nobleta to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, we discussed in detail the various articles of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the excise duty law and the Customs Law. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to state that we will support this project. During the debate and discussion on the various articles, there was one thread: Why does this project extend these entries until 31 December 2019? The information from the rapporteur and the Minister showed that it was the entrepreneurs, these micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who asked for an extension because they could not adapt their IT systems to the new system, and asked to maintain the duality of the rules. Thus, those entities that have made time to comply with these obligations under the new rules, while the paper form has been preserved until 31 December 2019. Therefore, the amendment tabled by the club Law and Justice in order to clarify the article. The law shall enter into force on 1 January 2019 and shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare my support for this project as adopted by the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u249	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Janusz Cichoń to present his position on behalf of the Civic Platform-Citizen Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u250	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I want to correct the information contained in my predecessor's speech, because it is worth recalling that the law that we are amending today entered into force on 20 July 2018 and until less than six months ago the Ministry declared that it was preparing appropriate guidelines for entrepreneurs and that there are no technical risks on the implementation of this law within the prescribed time limit. Today we come to a situation where entrepreneurs are not really prepared, but that it is not on their side that they cannot prepare themselves, but on the side of the ministry, which did not create such a basis and the ability to function in it so that entrepreneurs can carry out these duties. And that's it. In the current situation, however, it is difficult to imagine that we can vote against this solution. We support them, although we are surprised that this time a year is needed to prepare what is also proof that we had six months to implement the rules on electronic circulation within the EMCS. Now we need twice as much time. We are not convinced by the translation from the Ministry, but because of the situation - we have today half of December - we have no other choice. We must also take into account the safety of turnover and the functioning of companies present in this market, especially as they are also quite important, for example. for the safety of public transport. We are talking about excise goods exempt from excise duty or at zero rates, such as CNG gas, which in many Polish cities serves as a drive for public transport. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I declare that, although with reservations, we will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u251	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Długi, the Kukiz club15, is absent. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, and I ask you to present your position on behalf of this club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u252	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project that we are discussing after the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances is really about a law that has not yet entered into force because it is a law dated 20 July 2018. Indeed, it must be said that a number of editorial and regulatory amendments were introduced during the work in the Committee on Public Finance, including. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 which states in its current wording that the Act will enter into force on 1 January 2019. I'm not going to say that the bill stands out from the principles of good legislation, because I said it at first reading, so I'm not going to go after it anymore. Indeed, the level of preparation of entities for the introduction of the IT system has been wrongly estimated, and the project is therefore in its current form - information on excise duties will be reported in paper form. This is mainly about excise duty on aviation fuel and LPG. Of course, for social reasons, my club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u253	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to be on the list of people asking questions? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I invite you to ask the question of Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. As there is no government representative, Minister or Vice Minister, you will receive a written answer to your question. [[Sure.]] Therefore, I ask you very much to ask me to ask you a question, but please expect an answer in writing. Time is one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u254	Thank you very much, Marshal, for this solution. Your marshal will allow me to perform. Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please indicate the nature of the problem of adapting to the handling of shipments in the EMCS system? Did those who signaled such difficulties only pay attention to the question of not being able to meet the deadline set in the amendment of the law? Did they also suggest that changes should be made to the way the national EMCS system works, which would facilitate its operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u255	Thank you very much. As I said before, the answer will be in writing. The rapporteur also submitted his wish to speak... [[Representative of applicants.]] ...the committee, Mr Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to comment on the facts, to tell the truth about the events that took place at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and the explanations that were addressed to the committee participants there. This truth deviates from the information he presented from this speaker on behalf of the Platform Club, Mr Janusz Cichoń. The information provided by the Ministry of Finance clearly states that the government party was prepared to move from the paper version of the records of the circulation of documents and the transport of materials intended for use in the economy. Mr. Silence's version deviates from the truth because she thinks this shift is due to the government's fault. Nothing more wrong. In support of this thesis, the Ministry cited the fact that a number of stakeholders were interested in the possibility to postpone this deadline. Evidence of this in the form of letters addressed to the Ministry, as announced, shall be submitted in writing at the request of certain members of the committee. This parliamentary project It clearly meets a number of players. Let me remind you, there are dozens of thousands of entities operating in this area. We care about the fluidity of supplies and that none of the small, medium-sized players suffer from this regulation. Given the good state budget situation, as well as complementing the whole system of circulation of these goods through other monitoring systems - e.g. SENT 1, SENT 2, SENT 3 - it seems that today you can afford to implement these rules a little longer, but for the benefit of the interested, for the entrepreneurs themselves. I think that this parliamentary project is very much in line with their expectations, and I thank all those who understand it so much and so read it. Let me just remind you that ordering the calendar of the entry into force of the various laws that we adopt during the year always takes place until the last minute of the calendar year. This document falls within the standard of those acts which are useful for economic development, for its liquidity, for its stability as a legal system which is the environment of service operators, the production and supply of the best quality goods concerned and to its counterparties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u257	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws (prints No 3093 and 3098). Mr Grzegorz Matusiak will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, this draft law was voted on. They all unanimously supported him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u259	Well, in that case, you'd better stay in that podium, 'cause I think you're gonna present your position on behalf of the club, too, right? [[Okay, okay.]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite you to speak for Mr Grzegorz Matusiak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The above-mentioned draft law will enter into force in March 2019. First of all, it is a project expected by families, pensioners with the lowest salary. The lowest amount will be PLN 70, the percentage value of which will be 3.26%. The valorisation of pension benefits is an important element of the construction of the social security system. The economic function of benefit valorisation is to counter the depreciation of benefits and thus prevent the reduction of the material living of pensioners and pensioners in inflation conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u261	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Platform. There isn't. Please, Mrs Agnieszka, go after her. There isn't. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u262	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position towards the government draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, print No 3093. Ladies and gentlemen! There's an election coming. It can be seen, heard and felt. Feel the fear in the camp so-called. It's a good change. What can you do to save yourself? Promise. Who? Those who do not fight will not organize a strike, will not come to Nowogrodzka or KPRM with burning tires. Seniors - the group most exploited and deceived by the PiS. They were supposed to get free meds. What did they get? It's a dummy with poppies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention here, for example, the situation of the previous year when the valorization of pensions has been the lowest in years. The majority of pensioners received PLN 7 and 10. PiS's marketing scam. And right away, ladies and gentlemen, I will advance the attacks of the rulers. At a time when the Minister of Labour was the President of PSL, there was not as low valorization as in the days of the PiS. Let me remind you that the ruling votes have been rejected, ladies and gentlemen, our pension project without tax. I'll also remind you that in the votes of the empty piS benches you rejected the project about an additional 500 PLN for pensioners for Christmas. [[No one was there.]] Now, folks, you're talking about valorization. Maybe you'll promise more because you know there's an election going on, but I'm telling you, you can't fool retired people that easily. [[Voice from the O.R.: Is there anyone in the O.R.?]] You showed your true attitude to them last Friday. There has been a debate in this House about our project, honourable Member, Retirement without tax. There was little interest in the ruling party. Several Members appeared in the Chamber. Fortunately, there were seniors here, sir. They watched everything from the gallery, clapped while our Member Mieczysław Kasprzak, the applicant, presented the pension project without tax, even though the Marshal's Guard would not allow them to clap, probably at the request of the ruling option. You're talking, ladies and gentlemen, about valorization. Over 70% Poles pointed out that the most important project for seniors was a pension without tax. If you really want to do something for the seniors, then support the pension project without tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u263	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club. There isn't. Any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House... [[There's Joanna.]] Excuse me, Mrs Joann Frydrych. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u264	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Sorry, I was running. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of this law, the valorisation of pension benefits is an important element of the construction of the social security system. The economic function of benefit valorisation is to counter the depreciation of benefits and thus prevent the reduction of the material living of pensioners and pensioners in inflation conditions. As was rightly noted, in 2012 an amount valorisation of 71 PLN was introduced and in 2015 pension benefits were increased by a percentage rate of 100,68% but not less than 36 zlotys. For comparison, in 2017, the valorisation rate was 100,44%. - not less than 10 zlotys. In 2018, pension benefits were increased by 102.98% which resulted in PLN 29.80 in the case of the lowest pension and PLN 67.28 in the case of average pension. Over the period of 2 years, the average pension increased by PLN 77.28. Let me remind you that valorisation depends on two indicators: inflation and a real increase in average wage. In 2015, quota-percent valorisation was applied, and we had deflation at the time, i.e. a decrease in average prices in the economy, which meant that more goods and services could be purchased for the same amount of money. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS government was so generous that poverty in Poland today has a senior's face. Seniors have the most difficult economic situation. They're the ones who are facing a choice today, whether to buy drugs or pay the bills. Continuously rising fuel prices translate into higher prices for goods and services, including food. Rising drug prices and bills with such low benefits push some pensioners into poverty. This phenomenon is becoming more noticeable. I will also remind you that in the election campaign, the PiS announced an increase of the tax-free amount to 8,000. Evil, but it ended with promises. The introduction of this tax-free amount would actually increase pension benefits. I would also add that, in order to increase pension benefits in real terms, a draft law was submitted to abolish PIT on these benefits. Such a solution would be a real increase in pensions. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill aims to increase pension benefits by 103,26% , not less than 70 PLN. This is not an impressive amount because inflation will largely eat it. My question: Isn't this a small amount for people who receive the lowest benefits, given the increase in spending structure, the cost of living that you have given to Poles? Will this amount really prevent the material standard of living of pensioners and pensioners from falling? I'm afraid it's not that it's far too low. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In order to avoid poor valorization for the future, on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition, I am proposing an amendment that will guarantee pensioners a minimum amount of increase in benefits. In 2019 it will be a valorisation rate which will give no less than 70 zlotys, as it is prescribed in this Act, and in subsequent years it will be no less than the minimum amount laid down by regulation by the Minister responsible for social security. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition will support the proposed bill. At the same time, we call for the proposed amendment to be voted on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u265	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u266	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It should be stressed that raising the lowest pensions by an amount of not less than 70 PLN is a step in the right direction. The question is whether, in the light of the existing legal doctrine, including the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, a reduction in the amount of the benefit could not be introduced. Flattening the amount of benefits paid seems right, as the state pension should ultimately be a guarantee of a decent existence rather than a profit from the accumulated capital. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u267	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm looking for Mr. Jarubas from PSL, who spoke so beautifully about his project. Unfortunately, he's not here or anyone from PSL. This is difficult for me - to refer to his political manifesto. Eight years of governance of the Civic Platform and PSL have not improved the lives of pensioners and pensioners. That is why I ask, Minister: Is today's valorization the highest value offered by the government for 10 years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is impossible not to refer to the statements that we hear especially from the Polish People's Party, which during previous governments were responsible for social and family policy. The social dialogue broke down, raised the retirement age and is really trying to introduce laws at a time when there is a well-prepared draft of the Law and Justice Government. Minister! A lot is being done for pensioners and pensioners. We are aware that there are still great needs in this area. Does the Ministry, apart from this valorization, prepare anything else for this social group? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u271	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Members, for this debate and for the questions asked. It is difficult not to refer specifically to two speeches on what decisions were made by the previous governing coalition, but I think the best assessment was the results of the elections. [[Applause]] When it comes to our governments, the Laws and Justice, it's about three things. I'll mention it. In 2016, in addition to valorization - I will remind you that this was the budget adopted by the previous coalition - we introduced a one-off pension allowance ranging from PLN 50 to PLN 400 depending on the amount of benefits. In 2017, more than 1,100 thousand. Pensioners benefited from the increase of the lowest pension to PLN 1000. A huge leap made it possible for such a number of people to benefit from it. This year's valorization is expected at almost 3%. The latest proposal responds to what the Law and Justice have been saying since the beginning of their term of office: support to a large extent, to a greater extent, for pensioners who have the lowest benefits. And this valorization, the amount-percent, that's what serves this purpose. If we applied a direct option of valorisation, without amending the law, i.e. the valorisation of 3.26%, they would all benefit at this percentage level. We introduce quota valorisation and the lowest level of support is the amount of PLN 70. All who receive a pension of up to PLN 2147 will be valued at PLN 70. This applies to 61% Pensioners and Rentists, 100% all pensioners who receive benefits from KRUS, also 100% persons receiving social benefits and benefits, pre-retirement benefits. So this is a significant increase, for which an additional 1.5 billion PLN is allocated. A total amount of PLN 8381 million is foreseen for valorisation in 2019. Without this amount, which I was talking about, concerning 70 PLN in the case of the lowest salaries, this amount would be less than 1.5 billion PLN. This is therefore a strong increase in the indicator, and I think that the policy that Madam Ruseck asked about shows that the Law and Justice will go in such a way as to increase the lowest benefits, pension benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u273	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. There has not yet been a government in the Third Republic which would care so much for its compatriots as the Government of the United Right. I have no doubt that effective social policy is one of its priorities. This is demonstrated by a number of actions taken by the current rulers, including the draft law discussed today. I welcome the implementation of the current government's next electoral promises: the implementation of the 500+ programme, which virtually eliminates poverty among Polish children, raising the minimum wage or reducing the retirement age. However, I am equally pleased with the fact that our ministers' work does not end only with the fulfilment of already made promises, but also with the constant invention of further feasible solutions aimed at improving the living conditions of Poles. This draft law provides for the application of a new method of valorisation of pension benefits next year. According to the amendment of the regulation in 2019, the lowest pension, total incapacity pension, family pension and social pension are to be PLN 1100 and the lowest pension for partial incapacity for work - PLN 825. Apart from the fact that pension benefits are expected to be increased by 3.26% as a result of the valorisation, this increase is not lower than 70 PLN. As the applicants rightly point out, despite the many changes made in recent years to improve the situation of pension recipients - such as raising the lowest pensions, payment of one-off allowances in 2016 or the highest valorisation rate applied in 2017 in the last 5 years - the amount of these benefits is still not sufficient for people taking them to live peacefully, without thinking about paying for housing, food or medicines. Therefore, the continuous initiative and work of the governing team is so important and necessary in my opinion. The Free and Solidarnia Circle, of course, fully supports the solutions proposed in this project. Report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2015 together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u275	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. As there is no government representative to item 21 of the agenda... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh, there it is. I'm sorry. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: There would be all points.]] All the Minister takes. Excuse me. We proceed with the consideration of items 21, 22 and 23 of the agenda: 21. Report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2015 (print No 938) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (print No 1278). 22. Report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2016 (print No 1894) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (print No 2082). 23. Report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2017 (print No 2940) together with the position of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs (print No 2973). I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report on the implementation of the Children's Care Act under the age of 3 in the years 2015. This is about the popular program "Milch+" and, of course, I will also refer to what is happening today in this area of the "Milch+" programme. What were the main objectives of the childcare programme under the age of 3? The first objective is, of course, to allow for the combination of professional and family responsibilities. The next target, which is also derived from the Responsible Development Strategy, concerns a 33% payment by 2030. That is to say, taking care of children up to the age of 3. Another issue is the removal of barriers in relation to issues relating, firstly, to insufficient childcare facilities in crèches, children's clubs, daily carers, secondly, to a small number of municipalities with childcare facilities for the youngest children, thirdly, with high costs of running institutions and high parental fees. What are the most important changes we have made during this period, which are intended to improve the situation in this area, on the one hand, the issue of greater compensation and, on the other hand, the issues related to greater accessibility? The key issue was financial matters, i.e. more funding for childcare systems under the age of 3. And here it is worth reminding that we have increased expenditure from PLN 151 million to PLN 450 million, i.e. there has been a threefold increase in funds for day care during this period. And these are, I think, the important changes that have taken place in this area, in the area of financing. As far as the data from this increase are concerned, it is worth recalling that by 43% in 2015 and 2017 the number of care institutions has increased. At the end of 2017, there were more than 4271 of these institutions and in 2015 there were less than 3 000 of them. There has also been an increase in the number of care institutions in rural communities, where 377 such institutions functioned in 2015, and 567 in 2017, i.e. we have an increase of 50%. What is also important is the increase in the premium rate, which at the end of 2017, was 16%. , and in 2015 it was 12.4%. So we're seeing a significant increase here. In 2015, all care institutions, crèches, children's clubs and day carers offered a total of about 84 thousand. places, while in 2017 it was already 113 thousand. Places. This means an increase of 33% compared to 2015. In 2017, as in previous years, the vast majority of institutions were crèches, about 61%, which had the largest number of seats, about 89%. The number of day carers has also increased to the greatest extent. There was an increase of 55% in this case over 3 years. What is also important is the issue of the average monthly costs related to the stay of the child and board per seat in municipal crèches or subsidised by the municipalities. Between 2015 and 2017, it amounted to around 1 000. zł. 60% cover municipalities, 40% Parents. Over the period under consideration, spending on childcare institutions under the age of 3 has increased. In 2015, it was 800 million, in 2017. - over PLN 1100 million. These are statistics which clearly show that there is a significant increase in this respect. Between 2015 and 2017 14 thousand were created. new places of care, more than 3,000. in 2016, more than 8 000 in 2017 For the first time, funding was granted for the creation of new places within the programmes qualified by the voivods. At the same time, under the programme 40 000. children received funding for the cost of their stay in these institutions. These are the resources we're putting into this. The effects of these measures led to the creation of more than 32% in 2017 and 2018. new sites, 65% of which was created by entities other than municipalities. As I have already stressed, more than 60% of local government units did not have a care institution for children under the age of 3. This is the program we're doing. It aims to ensure that new institutional care facilities are created in municipalities where there is no care. If this could be summarised, at the end of this year more than 3153 crèches will operate in Poland, there will be almost 700 children's clubs, over 1200 daily carers. In total, we have over 5,000 of these institutions, which translates into 125,000. nursery places, in children's clubs - more than 12 thousand. places, and the number of places in the day care provider is more than 6 000. And the number of nannies is almost 6600. So all of the places together we have almost 150,000. Practically at the end of this year, the rate will be at 20%. So that's the goal that we've assumed by 2030 is 33%. children, as dynamics over the last two years show, is as achievable as possible. It will probably be achieved much earlier than we expected by the end of 2030. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request the adoption of these three joint reports on the implementation of the Child Welfare Act under the age of 3 in the years 2015 and 2017. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u277	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on these items on the agenda he would hear ten minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles... I'm so sorry. I would like to ask Mrs Ewa Kozanecka to present her position to the committee. I am so sorry, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u278	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present three reports by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the reports of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Act of 4 February 2011 on childcare under the age of 3 in 2015, print No 938, in 2016, print No 1894, and in 2017, print No 2940. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Speaker of the Sejm sent these reports to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration on 19 October 2016, 10 October 2017 and 23 October 2018. The 2015 report presents the characteristics of the institutional care system for children under the age of 3 and the implementation of the Law on the care of young children. The Commission took note of the number of institutions and the number of childcare facilities under the age of 3 for the years 2010 to 2015 with the functioning of daycare centres, children's clubs and day care institutions and nannies, with the average monthly costs associated with the stay of children in the above mentioned period. institutions in individual municipalities and voivodships and with the results of the implementation of the Ministry programme of development of institutions for children under the age of 3 years. The report shows that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy has devoted PLN 151 million to the creation and maintenance of nursing homes in daycare centres, children's clubs and day-to-day carers. This means the rise of about 12 thousand. new places of care and funding to operate for almost 43 thousand. On the other hand, the 2016 report shows that in 2016 the number of childcare institutions up to 3 years has increased to 4200 years. In total, we had nearly 110 thousand. care places for a small child, which gives an indicator of approx. 16% children aged 1 to 2 years. As regards the financial resources in 2015, the local government and central budget spent PLN 931 million. In 2016, as in 2015, 151 million PLN was spent for this purpose. Thanks to the introduction of the programme, the effectiveness of spending has increased by 100%. The 2017 report presents the characteristics of the system of institutional care for children up to the age of 3 and the issue of the implementation of the law in this respect. The Commission took note of the number of institutions and their functioning. The report contains the number of crèches, children's clubs, day care institutions and nannys with the average monthly costs associated with the stay of children in the above mentioned. institutions. The Commission also took note of the results of the implementation of the school's development programme for childcare institutions under the age of 3 years. The report describes the government's activities in 2017 affecting the development of care institutions for the youngest children, enabling parents to combine their professional and family responsibilities and the changes introduced in the child care system up to the age of 3 by amending the 2011 Act, which introduced a number of important changes to reduce the costs of the institution's operation and thus reduce the fees for childcare. Such a solution is to increase expenditure on supporting the development of nursery, children's clubs and day-to-day carers from the previous 151 million PLN to 500 million PLN. The second element of the amendment is the requirement to have at least two children's accommodation in the nursery. In addition, a catalogue of facilities for setting up nursery and children's clubs has been extended and daily carers have been employed. It is possible for individuals to employ day-to-day carers and self-employed day-to-day carers within the framework of the so-called. self-employment. The report also takes into account the innovation of the.Maluch+. programme for 2017, which has resulted in an increase in the number of emerging places of care. Thanks to these changes, more than 8 thousand were created in 2017. new places of care. So far, around 4,000 have been created annually. Places like this. Within the programme 40,568 children received funding for their stay in childcare facilities. It should be added that the effect of the amendment is above all the growth of the so-called. Fixing rate. At the end of 2017, approximately 16% of care was taken. children 1 to 3 years of age, which means an increase of more than 2% compared to the previous year. It is estimated that at the end of 2018 the rate of compensation will be 19%. Another effect of the change is the increase in the proportion of municipalities in which the care institution operates, from 29% in 2016 to 32% at the end of 2017. Another effect of the changes is the reduction of parents' fees for daycare by PLN 140 per month. The next effect is to increase the total number of care places, consisting of daycare centres, children's clubs and day carers, the increase in 2017 was 17%. 16,000 were opened. new places. The number of seats increased from 95 419 at the end of 2016 to 111 354 in 2017. Currently there are almost 5 thousand. an institution of care. My parents and their nannies have nearly 150,000 at their disposal. Places. This means that more than 19% children 1 to 3 years of age are covered by institutional care. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the reports at its meeting on 9 February 2017, 7 December 2017, adopted these reports on 6 November 2018, and proposes that the High Sejm adopt the reports on printing No 938, 1894 and 2940. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u279	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u280	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the report of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in 2015, print No 938, as well as in 2016, print No 1894, and in 2017, print No 2940. The Law and Justice Government has recognised as its priority the task of supporting the Polish family, has put in place a number of actions aimed at improving its existence and functioning, development, and thus facing the problem of demographic collapse. In addition to flagship programs such as the 500+ family, other measures have been put in place to improve the demographic situation of Poland. The social diagnosis in 2013 shows that one of the important reasons why Poles give up having children is the difficulty of reconciling work and parenting. Since the entry into force of the Act, i.e. Since 4 April 2011, there has been an increase in the number of childcare institutions and the number of places in these institutions. In 2015, the proportion of children aged up to 3 years under care was 8.3% and the childcare institutions were about 8.3% this year. $3,000. 84,000 were offered. Places like this. In 2016 it was already a figure of 3.5 thousand. of such institutions, which accounted for 12.4% children in kindergarten care. As far as 2017 is concerned, this figure has already increased to 16%. The Act of 4 February 2011 on the care of children aged up to 3 years was amended in 2013, 2015 and 2017, with the Act of 7 July 2017 amending certain laws related to the family support system introducing a number of changes facilitating the creation and running of nursery institutions, children's clubs and the care of day-to-day carers. More places of care can be a factor in deciding whether to have children. The Government of Law and Justice aims to ensure that daycare and other forms of institutional care for children aged up to 3 years also develop in smaller towns. Today's crèches actually operate in large cities and in 2016 only 29%. Municipalities and in 2017 - 31% The municipalities had crèches in their territory. That's not enough. The Government of Law and Justice is trying to change that. The government's actions aim to ensure that every Polish family, if it wants to put a child in a nursery, can do so, and the fee it incurs is possible to bear by their domestic budgets. Over this period, expenditure on childcare institutions aged up to 3 years has been significantly increased. Total expenditure from government budget and municipal budget in 2015 amounted to PLN 802.5 million, in 2016 - 931.3 million and in 2017. - already PLN 1088 million. Let me just remind you that, with regard to the "Maluch+" programme, the government amount that was allocated to this project was 151 million in 2015 and increased to over 450 million in 2017, which contributed to the increase in crèches. In view of the above, Law and Justice recommends the adoption of all three reports: 2015, 2016 and 2017. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u281	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition regarding the three reports of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Children's Care Act up to 3 years old. And unfortunately, at the beginning, I must say that you are not fully implementing these provisions in accordance with the Act. For I would like to remind you that art. 6 of the Act obliges the Council of Ministers to submit an annual report to the Sejm, not to the committee, and to the Senate by 30 September. Today you have presented documents of 3 years. I would like to remind you that these reports are not meant to serve statistics, and that the legislator, by introducing such a provision, had a completely different intention. I would like to remind you that in view of the fact that the law was introduced in 2011, it was a novelty in Poland and aimed, as even the Minister said, to increase the number of institutions and places for children of crèche age. By introducing new solutions and a range of new forms of childcare that have not yet functioned in our country, the wording of the article. 6 was intended to check how the provisions of the Act are implemented, which are a problem and which are dead, in order to introduce such changes as will facilitate the implementation of the proposed solutions. As we have seen, there has been no mention in this Chamber of what records pose a problem in the creation of new forms and which of them block the creation of these forms. Do you therefore believe that you are implementing this in accordance with the law, in accordance with Article. Six? Unfortunately, not quite. True, the report was presented at a committee meeting. And it is true that we can speak and present our doubts, but unfortunately you do not take them into account and implement the conclusions that come from committee meetings. The fact that you have amended the provisions of the Act only indicates that unfortunately the number of places in these institutions was increasing not fast enough, and in the statistics you wanted to show that these places were being created. You have increased the European Union's resources in the programme "Milch', which introduced the Civic Platform, and added "+', but is the effect of the act satisfactory for 7 years? No, I'm afraid not. There are still no places for willing children, especially in rural areas and small towns. Is this a satisfactory effect or not? What do you think, Minister? Don't you think that when the report is being discussed in committee work, there should also be representatives who implement this law on a daily basis, as well as representatives of local authorities who are obliged to create such facilities and forms of childcare? Looking at the effects of the changes made to the bill, it can be concluded that they are unfortunately only cosmetic. Because how can you positively assess a change that... To increase the number of places in daycares, for statistical purposes, as I said before, you've reduced the number of rooms from two to one. Imagine children who stay 10 hours in the same room - in a room where they play and rest and in which for 10 hours you cannot find the moment to air this room. Is that supposed to be the better terms? It's hard to say you've improved those conditions. Children's Clubs - another form we have been talking about here and which is provided by the Children's Care Act up to the age of 3. It was a form that allowed children to stay for up to 5 hours. Due to such a small number of hours, the conditions were also very different from those in nursery facilities. And what did you do? You've increased the number of hours without ordering these conditions to be improved. Children will be in such rooms for 10 hours. Another form you haven't taken advantage of is the day care provider. Many times during the work of the committee, we have pointed out that this form is interesting and that then there would be no problem with rural areas and small towns, because it is a very friendly form that can provide care for these children. We've talked about this many times, we've been paying attention to it. We talked about how it would be useful to promote this completely new, unknown form. We've been talking for three years. So? Nothing's changed. Only the number of daily carers increased in Warsaw. That's what your statistics say in the report you've prepared. Another form was the nanny, so called. Nanny. To get her out of the gray area, the legislator introduced a record saying that if a parent hires such a nanny, they will be financed contributions 100%. And what's the change? Good change? You've reduced it to 50%. I do not believe that this change will increase the scope of this form of childcare. Minister, completely - and you can see it in the reports - you forgot about the betting crèches. You talk a lot about economic growth, about new entrepreneurs, about new establishments. It is an excellent form to provide care. Perhaps in a time when workers are short, this form will attract them and encourage them to do so. Listening to you here for 20 minutes, unfortunately, I did not find any record that would say that you had carefully analysed the effectiveness of the provisions of the Act. Therefore, the Civic Platform and Coalition Club will reject these reports. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u283	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15. There is no Member. Mr Krystian Jarubas made a statement in writing. Mrs Monika Rosa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u284	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! In Poland today only about 10% children may benefit from forms of institutional childcare. Often parents complain that the children have grown old in line while waiting for this place. In fact, what is currently functioning in Poland is a drop in the sea of needs. And the shortage of crèches mainly affects women and their return to the labour market. Only 32% of the municipalities operate daycare facilities. The number of daycares is important, but also their quality, availability and distance. All these elements affect whether parents have the opportunity to send their children to the nursery at all, but also whether they want to send them to the nursery. In Poland, as I said, only 10% The children can count on a place in the nursery. In Denmark it is 74% children. If we want - and I understand that this is a common goal - for the kids to have good care, but also if we decide to conduct family policies and convince young couples to have children, then we simply have to provide such institutional care, because a woman will have trouble deciding on the first and the next child if she does not realize that after birth she will be able to return to the labour market herself. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not worth reducing the quality of a functioning childcare institution at the expense of a number. Overcrowded rooms, waiting in queues, parents kind of struggled for their lives, waiting in big cities or municipalities, so that the children could get into daycare. If we look at 1989, we will see that in Poland there were 1553 crèches, which offered for children under the age of 3 a total of 106 thousand. Places. It's kind of like after almost 30 years of functioning of Poland we're back to square one. Yet we are very aware of the importance of education and care for children from the earliest years of their life. Of course, I am glad that the number of daycares, institutional care, is increasing, but this is often an apparent growth and, above all, too small. If we decide on pro-family policy, maybe it's worth focusing on making these day care centers as much as possible? In order to build these crèches, huge sums should be given to women, families say: yes, in Poland we feel safe. We know that when the time comes when we decide to have children, our children will be able to go to daycare. It's not just a question. 500+, which unfortunately is very limited in the case of single parents. It is also a matter of ensuring the safety of families. That is why we cannot accept your reports, but I think that we can discuss together an effective family and social policy. Talking about how to ensure the safety of women so that they want to have children and want to return to the labour market. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u285	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition, asks the first question. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u286	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There is no information in the report you have presented on the establishment crèches, and Mrs Ewa Drozd spoke about it. This is a very important, very important element of what you often talk about, i.e. pro-family policy. I want to ask you something like that. Did you even think about having any conversations with employers' organisations, employees, because, given that it is obvious, the current labour market - the market in fact, essentially the worker, on the one hand, is quite an important element, and on the other hand, the demographic increase that is currently starting families, and therefore these children will become more and more - it seems that the establishment daycare should not be any [[♪ The bell ♪]] a sensational rarity, but a very serious instrument, which supports a woman who wants to return to the labour market. Are you thinking about helping employers who want to start a nursery institution? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u288	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask, because I didn't find it in any of the three reports, what healthcare looks like in all these places. Is it controlled whether children are vaccinated and vaccinated? Are balance sheets controlled, which are carried out at a child's age, quite densely at the age of 0 and 3? This group is most susceptible to infection. The slightest mistake in each of these places, in each of the institutions, also under the care of the nanny - even if it is one child and this nanny is sick, it is extremely dangerous for this child. I haven't found a single word about it. What are the nutritional standards, what are they based on in these places? Are you sure this food the kids are getting is safe? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u289	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As was the case with the total opposition, how it is impossible to criticise the actions of the Government of Law and Justice aimed at making a substantial contribution, a substantial increase in funding for this purpose, the form of the report is being criticised. God, how typical this is for you - overgrowth of form over content. I will also refer to the involvement of the local government, Minister, because local government is an important link in the creation of a childcare system up to the age of 3. I have a question for the Minister. Are there any intentions? Or are there work in the Ministry to motivate local governments to create crèches to see that this is an important element in creating good policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u291	Thank you, Member. And Mrs Eve Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We weren't dating, but I wanted to raise the same problem. Well, Warsaw is a city where the number of places in crèches in relation to the number of parents waiting for such a place for their child is alarmingly low. Minister, do you see a chance to mobilize local governments to provide care for the children of both working parents? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u293	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for this debate on the reports. I would like to remind you that these reports concern three years, since 2015. It seems that only two months of the rule of law and justice functioned at that time. No, less than 1.5 months of the Law and Justice Government operated in 2015, as well as in 2016 and 2017. I understand that if you apply for rejection, this concerns... [[But it was Minister Marczuk who prepared the report in 2015.]] ...also the governments of the Civic Platform and PSL, so I understand if we are talking about the 2015 reporting year. It is possible to come to a debate with a well-established view that the report must be rejected without looking at the facts that result from these reports. [[But who prepared this report?]] Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Lively you can see how high it is. in individual institutions, both in daycare... [[But what does that mean? We also said...]] Member, I didn't disturb you. Let me tell you, too. [[Of course.]] When we talk about the number of daycares, in 2015 there were less than 2 000, in 2017 - 2600. That's an increase. Isn't he here? It's just math. Daycare providers: in 2015 - 570, in 2017 - 1026. I could have quoted data from 2018, but I will only refer to the reporting period. This from 570 to 1026 means there's an increase. Isn't he here? There's an increase. Of the 151 million zlotys we have spent on 450 or 500 million, this is a threefold increase. Isn't that an increase? If we don't have an understanding in such categories, then, ladies, what are we supposed to talk about? What are we supposed to talk about? [[Is that a satisfactory growth?]] Well, it's not satisfactory. I think we're all aware that it's not satisfactory. Let me remind you that up to the age of 3 this is the task of the municipalities themselves. This is not a direct task of the state, but of the municipalities. [[But that's what I'm talking about.]] The municipalities are responsible for this. And today, after these changes, there is progress, but this progress is obviously not satisfactory enough for all of us to say that it is very good. There's a need to... And that is also why the laws that we have implemented are being made so that on the one hand we can make it easier to set up crèches so that more are created and on the other hand we can make more money. Today, there is no problem for both universities to join the programme, because there is a possibility as well as for those who will serve entrepreneurs. There's no such thing as a ban. As much as possible, it is possible to create factory crèches if someone reports to the program "Milch+". This is absolutely acceptable and there is no contraindications here. Of course we need to talk about it, we need to encourage it, but all the proposals that we have can be implemented under this programme. Health care, doctor, inspection of both health care and the city's office, which supervises individual individuals. I can only confirm that during this period of operation of the Government of Law and Justice the number of daycares has increased - and this has increased decisively. This does not mean that it is a satisfactory growth, because as we speak about the level of compensation in local governments, that 60% There are no crèches yet, and that is also the question of how much the crèches are convinced. Today it's completely different... In the election campaign, some declared that daycare would be free, there would be crèches in every district. We are waiting for the local authorities to deliver on these announcements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u295	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u296	High Izbo! Although the statement that our country's youngest citizens are its future seems to be a cliché, without them this future will simply not be. Therefore, all issues relating to the development of the family, and in particular those relating to the care of the youngest citizens of our country, should become an absolute priority. I am pleased that the current government understands this and is consistently implementing a wide range of different types of solutions under the 500+ family programme, adopted for Polish families, on the one hand to prevent depopulation and on the other to encourage professional activity, especially women. I am pleased that further solutions are being introduced in this field, in a field that has been neglected for decades. I was interested in the reports of the Council of Ministers on issues related to the implementation of various forms of institutional care for the youngest Poles. Optimism is the creation of amenities for couples who plan to expand the family, in the form of access to unruly domestic budgets, flexible care services for the smallest children. The availability of care services is aimed at reducing the gap between family responsibilities and employee responsibilities, which is particularly affecting young mothers. It is particularly valuable to develop care services for the youngest children with disabilities. It is appropriate to eliminate barriers to the establishment and running of care institutions and to maintain a balance between the availability of these services and the safety of children combined with the comfort of their stay. It was important to extend the time spent caring for children's clubs, to introduce additional responsibilities related to food standards, to provide the possibility to decide on the functioning of the places where the children were placed by the parents' councils. It was extremely important to introduce an obligation to check in the records of non-criminality of people who work in daycare. As of 1 January 2018, under the amendment of the Child Welfare Act under the age of 3 all daycare staff or children's club, i.e. the head of the nursery, the head of the child club, caretaker, nurse, midwife, volunteer or other person employed to perform work or provide services in the nursery or children's club, shall be checked in the Register of Criminals on the Sexual Background. The changes go in the right direction not only through government determination, but also by enriching them through public consultation. All these care facilities supporting the family in the care of the smallest children in my opinion should be seen not as something that denies and replaces family care, but as something that complements it. Parents, including mothers in particular, should have a choice as to whether they want to devote themselves completely to their child's upbringing or whether they want to combine child care with their work. It is the parents who know best what is good for their children, and it is they who decide whether to stay home with their children or to save them to a baby care facility. It is a good thing that there is an alternative development towards the family of forms of care, because when there are no care facilities for the youngest children, the mother often does not have such a choice. It is very important to ensure access to such services in rural areas and there is still much to be done here. A financial injection aimed at increasing the number of childcare institutions should take into account in particular those municipalities where high unemployment rates are maintained. The location of such facilities should be adapted to local needs. If we want to survive as a nation, there's no turning back from pro-family politics. And however much money comes from the budget, including through the development programme of childcare institutions under the age of 3 years, the social policy of the government must prevent depopulation. The government must also systematically monitor whether it has the desired effect. Who knows what the future may bring? It is not excluded that this well-mannered, numerous offspring will be an important pension guarantee for parents' old age. By the way, there are voices in the media that the 500+ family programme has affected the professional inactivation of women taking care of children. According to some opposition representatives, many people avoid working because they prefer to live with various kinds of benefits and benefits. However, I would like to point out that the work of mothers at home has real value also in financial terms. According to the authors of the publication, which appeared on the contact portal24. tvn24 (https: / /contact24. tvn24. pl/i-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w-w Up to I would also like to draw attention to the NBP report: The quarterly report on the labour market in the third quarter. No 04/ 2016 16, National Bank of Poland. Rather, it points out that the increase in the number of inactive women is due to the need to take care of disabled children or older parents. The care provision for parents with disabilities of children increased from 620 PLN in 2013 to 1200 PLN in 2014 and 1406 PLN from 1 January 2017. The number of people over the age of 80 who require care for their loved ones is increasing. Their number increased by 45% between 2006 and 2015. In time, we may be among them. Since the aim of social programs aimed at families is to increase the fertility of families, we have a profession with three or four young children that can become even more common even with extended care services. On behalf of the Kukiz 15 Club, I request that the High Chamber accept the print reports 938, 1894 and 2940.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u297	The welfare state is a vision of an ideal state promoted by many. The problem arises when the slogan is not followed by consistent actions, but by political lans. What is the case with the current rulers? I would say, on average, because the actions they are actually taking are a continuation of the social policy that we carried out as a PSL in the previous coalition. If it weren't for a lot of activities such as the longest parental leave in Europe, the daycare for gold, the lawnmower or the principle of gold for many benefits, it would probably be hard for PiS to introduce the 500+ programme. It's a good thing the government didn't ruin the projects that were implementing the PSL in the Ministry of Labour. The question is whether the goals they set themselves have been achieved. If we look at the statistics of the CSO, we'll say it's probably not necessarily. From January to September 2018, 296.4 thousand were born in Poland. children. A year earlier, however, a lot more was born in the same period, because 306,1 thousand. children. Conclusion: the actions taken by the current government have nothing to do with encouraging Poles to expand their families. Today, however, it is even worse, because not only do they promote themselves in the light of the 500+ programme, it is, as official calculations say, that limit this program. According to official data in 2018, 156 thousand. poor families have lost the right to download 500+. These people lost 500+ if they crossed the threshold by several or several dozen zlotys. Sadly, families with such income live in poverty and cannot meet many basic needs. At the beginning of December, one newspaper described another theme of a specific discrimination against families, this time on their own or, as it is commonly said, lonely. The article says that benefits from 500+ are to be lost to those who do not have alimony, not only for the first child, but also for the second and third children. The idea is so absurd that only the first child has income thresholds. The judgment of the WSA in this case in September 2018 was clear. Where income is relevant to the first child, additional requirements may apply to the presentation of a certificate of valid maintenance. Otherwise it's illegal because the money is paid from the vending machine. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of this term, we have proposed and will consistently request the introduction of a $500-dollar rule into the programme. That would solve a lot of problems, for example. single parents who by several or several zlotys have exceeded the income threshold. This solution at the beginning of the term of office met with a positive reception even among some politicians of the governing party, unfortunately for reasons unknown to me for their good words did not go the way they did. We will consistently call for this principle to be introduced into the 500+ programme. Just as we will encourage the continuation and expansion of lawnmowers. Let me remind you that those entitled to a law on family benefits are mentioned in the law. The child's mother or father may apply for money and, in certain cases, the adoptive parent, the actual guardian, the foster family, except for the foster family. This is PLN 1000 net per month for the first year of the child's life for all who do not have maternity benefits. Our idea is to extend lawn time by another six months. It's a real request. As for day care, we are pleased that the current government is continuing its activities. The idea of social policy of PSL was to help parents at the most difficult moments of motherhood, hence the mowers and daycare for the cash. Of course, it is a good thing that there is a continuation and that in the following years the government allocates about a fixed amount from the budget for the construction of daycare, but it cannot rest on laurels. Despite the steady and high growth of both the number of institutions and the number of places they have at their disposal, the needs are still enormous, all the more so as more than 70% Municipalities in Poland lack any childcare institutions up to the age of 3. This is a huge challenge that we will not block anyone, and when we are in charge in the future, we will continue with the programme of setting up new facilities. Of course, relief and facilitation in the setting up of daycare are important. However, control of the quality of services and care cannot be forgotten. And the idea is that the program of the little ones they're bragging about today doesn't turn out to be the same as the housing program. There were supposed to be thousands of them, and a few hundred came out all over the country. Of course, this must be done rationally. The nursery will not be built in 5 minutes, so it is worth to act multi-trackly. You can't forget about other projects at the time. Mower 2.0 would be a great complement and element that can temporarily help parents solve the problem of lack of places in daycare. Therefore, it is worth considering supporting our request to extend the period of this witness by another 6 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the discussions on the reports of the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Law of 4 February 2011 on the care of children under the age of 3 in the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. Unfortunately, we live in times where family ties are not as strong as they used to be. Young people often live away from their families, and grandparents, whether for this distance or through work, which we encourage as a country, do not have the opportunity to give their children sufficient help in caring for their grandchildren. We are also an ageing society, and although this is primarily the result of the fact that we are living longer and longer, we must also not forget that fewer and fewer children are born in our society. It is necessary to take such measures as will promote an increase in the number of births, which will increase the sense of security in families, help to combine work and parenthood, and thus translate into decisions to increase the family. Institutional care for children under the age of 3 plays an important role in all of this, and it is important that it develops dynamically and that its availability and form meet the needs. As we can see, the reports presented show that, thanks to the consequences in the activities and cooperation not only with local authorities, but also with private entities set up in the Children's Care Act under the age of 3 and in the Responsible Development Strategy, the objectives are gradually being pursued. Above all, the number of institutions and the number of places of care is increasing. In 2015, there were 3 000. facilities from 84,000. Places. In 2017, there were already 3.5 thousand facilities, and places for children - 98.5 thousands. In 2015 the institutional care was covered by 10% children, in 2017 - 19%. This is an impressive increase achieved mainly thanks to increased - from PLN 151 million to PLN 500 million - financial resources for this purpose, of which PLN 250 million came from the state budget. Nurses, children's clubs, day carers or the possibility of hiring a nanny on the basis of an activating contract - the offer for parents is wide and continues to expand. Some forms of care are developing faster, others are developing slower, depending on demand and desire, but this development is and I trust that it will progress. The facts and figures presented in these reports speak for themselves. The Government of the United Right three years ago went to elections with the slogans of family policy on its banners. The data from these reports clearly show that they were not just slogans, but a concrete action plan, which is consistently implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u299	The discussion requested that the report in prints 938, 1894 and 2949 be rejected. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 4:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 mins 35 hours 16 min 32]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws (prints No 3088 and 3095). I ask Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u300	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws, print No 3088. This law is currently in print under number 3095. The Sejm at its 74th meeting on 12 December 2018 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 12 December 2018, requests the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. The Commission shall act in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, submit the following minority request: in Article. 5 in point 1 in point (a) c, in the mouth. 1c delete point 3. The proposal was tabled by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska. The report specifies the place: Warsaw, 12 December 2018. Rapporteur: Józef Hrynkiewicz. Chairman of the committee: Arkadiusz Czartoryski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u301	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. You will be the first to speak by Edward Sulphur, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. Mr Sulfur is not here. Please, Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u302	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform - Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I will present my position on the law amending the Police Act and several other laws, print No. 3088. Last night was the first reading of this draft law in the plenary room, so from a social point of view it is a very important law. When we came to the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs this morning, to our great surprise, we were cast off by a series of amendments. There were 55 legislative amendments that we could expect, because this project was being prepared at the last minute, on the knee, and 26 very complicated government amendments were also presented. Yesterday, at first reading, Deputy Minister Renata Szczech did not even mention that we would have such a surprise in the morning. Yesterday, Marek Wójcik, who presented his position on behalf of our club against this law, pointed out that it was not really a committee project, it was a government project, because he was implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of December 2017. It was a year to prepare for these changes, but at the last moment, when the knife was on the throat, this draft of the internal affairs committee was dropped. In this way, the government threw off its responsibility, and PiS, having most of them, actually unintelligiblely undertook a fine execution of the sentence. The law is extremely important, it concerns freedom and personal rights. How can a law be considered such as legislation without the opinion of non-governmental organisations active in the area of civil rights or without the opinion of an ombudsman? That's what we missed so much. Deputy Minister Krzysztof Kozłowski Today, in the committee, it was clear that the High House would confirm the scope of the citizens' guarantee, which is included in this law. The law should, in principle, enter into force before 23 December, because in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of that date they will lose the power of the regulation and regulations concerning the control of persons, the inspection of baggage or the verification of cargo. It is hard to imagine what might happen if this law does not come into force by then, and yet there are many events planned, such as New Year's Eve, during which it will be necessary to check the incoming citizens. This law amends the rules in 14 laws governing the operation of many services. As the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club - the Civic Coalition, we tried to table an amendment to the article in committee. 5 concerning the municipal guards, to remove such activities as checking the mouth, nose, ears and hair while proceeding over this law from the catalogue of personal checks which guards may carry out. According to Mr Kozłowski's assurances, this provision, which is already in force in the regulation, is a blank, meaning it is actually on paper. What if, now that he's in the bill, there are overzealous villagers or communes who want to use it? Let me remind you that a personal inspection is carried out by an officer in the event of a legitimate suspicion of committing a criminal offence. Unfortunately, this amendment has not found the approval of the committee and will be put to the vote as a minority motion. To sum up my speech today, I would like to say that after such a chaotic process on the bill, without a subcommittee - it really was asked that there should be a subcommittee in the case of this law - without the opinions of the various authorities that deal with matters [[♪ The bell ♪]] We cannot guarantee that citizens' rights will be properly protected by this law, with amendments in place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u303	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be brief. This law is probably needed, but it has been needed for a year and has been possible to process it for a year. We could lean on it, we could set up a subcommittee, we could analyze it in a way that would be worthy of the Polish parliament. Unfortunately, we get it, as usual, for five to twelve. Within two days we get time to lean over a law that really affects the very essential elements of our freedom, personal protection. In this situation it is very difficult to take responsibility for such legislation or for what is in this law. In addition to this law - supposedly this is such a great law, so nicely prepared by the government - we have received fifty few legislative amendments. Today we also received a whole file of government corrections prepared at night. We got 20 minutes. Fortunately, thanks to the Commission's and the President's awareness of these amendments, it has not been examined today, but this shows the scale of the problem we are facing with this law. I'm not gonna say another word because the only thing that can be done with this bill is to put a veil of silence on it. In fact, I should just stand here right now and use all the rest of my time to be silent, but I don't want your own thoughts to kill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u305	Thank you very much, sir. I just wanted to complete the scenario because the committee responsible submitted a report on the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws, print No 3095. I therefore propose that the Sejm should agree to the application of the Article in this case. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on the item added, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles, which we are doing. Please, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u306	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. In the case of a large summary of the submission, it can be said in quotes, in government, in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, that the most important thing here is to discuss the project, because it is not a process in the strict legislative sense. You could say it's a struggled chaos. Polish parliamentarians are not allowed to put their hands on bill projects, for which he himself has almost no knowledge of the consequences and consequences of their possible adoption. The lack of correlation between the police's powers and the Border Guard's powers speaks for itself, not only about the inconsistencies of the proposed rules, but also about the fear of creating this rank of normative acts. In turn, the concealment of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal should be regarded as a clever example justifying the frenzy of the procedure. I declare: The Constitutional Tribunal is not a common court whose judgments are valid and not affected, they must be executed, by reading them strictly, literally. The Constitutional Tribunal merely sets out the framework for changes and does not itself or does so in this Parliament. It is parliamentarians who decide on the possible new or amended wording of the contested legal standards. In view of the fact that it is impossible for Members of this House, not to mention the analytical, familiarising themselves with the submitted matter, its consequences for the authorities of the State themselves and its citizens, feeling co-responsible for the creation of law in this House and not accepting, as I stress, the accepted and present standards of procedure, the club of the Polish People's Party as the body responsible will abstain from voting on the project in such a adopted form of report. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u307	Thank you very much, sir. Let me read the script again, because here we really have problems with this bill today. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on the item added, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Excuse me, folks, but today at this point, we had a bit of a mess at the procession. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the Commission's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I move on to discussing the project and talking about what the project is and in what atmosphere, in what haste and mess it has been discussed, what we can see even now, when there are last heated discussions about the amendments that will be tabled next to us... This is really hard to accept, because I have to say that we are working on a project that is extremely important for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal concerns, of course, the implementation of the judgment, the judgment, the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, while it concerns freedom and civil rights. These freedoms and rights enshrined in the Constitution are linked to the values of the closest natural and unwashed dignity of the human person. The Constitution states that it is inviolable and its respect and protection is the responsibility of the public authorities. This is the proper legal protection of constitutional rights in case of search and personal inspection, which is the subject of this draft law, is therefore necessary and is the responsibility of Parliament. But it is also a duty to proceed in line with the principles and principles of a good law-making process, a good regulation process. Are we dealing with a good regulatory process, with good legislation in the case of this law? No. The project comes in at the last minute, committees are convened so that it takes an hour to prepare a report, Members do not have time for an in-depth analysis of this project after the committee meeting, and these amendments, as we have just seen, are being examined, set just before reading. In this way, the High House should not deal with draft laws which affect issues of such importance from the point of view of citizens' rights. Ladies and gentlemen! In such laws, in cases where the matter concerns freedoms and personal rights, the High House is used to listen to the social parties, to hear organisations who fight on a daily basis to ensure that these citizens' rights are respected, respected and properly regulated. Unfortunately, I am sorry to say that there was no social factor during the process, and we believe that this is a very large negligence. Such laws should not be dealt with in this way. There are also legal doubts about what my previous speakers have already said, for example the powers of the municipal guards. We also have doubts about the powers of the Marshal's Guard. After reading the content and idea of a number of other provisions, even those government amendments that have been tabled, I would say, in an extraordinary amount for the committee meeting, it must be stated that this project is simply underdeveloped. I must say that today we should send this proposal again to the committee for a re-reading of the first reading, which could be followed by a discussion. A subcommittee could even be set up because such projects should not be conducted in this way. Because of the doubts I was talking about on behalf of the Poselski Club I want to make two amendments today. These are the issues of the municipal guards. I agree here with Mrs Rutkowska's proposal to delete point 3 in paragraph 3. 1c. However, if this point had not been deleted, we believe that its scope should be limited, i.e. oral examination must be limited only to a health or life-threatening situation. Another thing we want to propose is that the search by the municipal guard should be carried out in a way that violates the personal interests of the person, as much as possible, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to which these measures will be taken. In the next amendment, we specify that in the event of such action by the municipal guard there may be a person who is also indicated by the person checked. Mrs. Marshal! I submit these two amendments to you and request that the draft be sent back to the committee, not in the second reading mode, in order to set up a subcommittee and to enter into a substantive, substantive discussion on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u309	Thank you very much, sir. Here you are, a representative of the Law and Justice, Mr Edward Sulphur. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Indeed, today we are investigating a very important bill. It is important for any citizen who may be in a situation where he will be subject to police officers, city guards or soldiers. In accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, it is now time for us to amend the provisions on the basis of which these acts, which have so far been described in implementing acts of different rank, are to be included in the statutory matter in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. At the committee meeting, it was also pointed out that, as from the moment the constitution was adopted, these provisions should be governed by the law in a short time. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. We have seen a constitutional judgment and it is worth noting that the Constitutional Tribunal has pointed out that all these cases, which concern the search of luggage, personal checks, are very clearly in the bill separated and described. And that's how this project treats these things. At first reading, however, there were a number of doubts about the powers of the various services, as colleagues have already said here, for example the municipal guard. I would like to point out that this matter we are talking about today is in the executive acts. Our role with regard to those provisions that we are adopting today is to transfer them to the Sejm Act, and thus to strengthen these civil rights in this respect, as regards those issues which are addressed in the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I propose amendments to the proposed project. These amendments relate to transitional provisions and address issues, inter alia. such as the treatment of cases which today operate under existing rules and, as should be carried out further, in the course of the adoption and adoption of that law. So that these corrections are now in your hands, Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u311	Thank you very much. Who among you and your fellow Members would like to ask you another question, please add yourself to the list. I'm closing the list. One minute to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to return to the question of personal inspection and search procedure. Following the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, we are the subject of a law, and in public space there is a lot of information indicating disputes relating to the application of the personal inspection and search procedure. The proposed solutions go in the right direction because they clarify the issues that today raise questions of interpretation. In view of the fact that issues of intimacy are the subject of the discussion, should it not be possible, however, not only to request a protocol but also to include the comments of the Controlled Person in the minutes? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u313	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing legislation that regulates a situation in which a state can deeply interfere with the privacy of a citizen, even one who is now suspected of something. The law on the search questioned the Ombudsman four years ago. The Constitutional Tribunal settled the case in December last year, unanimously ruling the non-constitutionality of the provisions of 11 laws and 6 regulations. The judgment was published in the Official Journal of 22 December 2017. During the year, no ministry has published a project that regulates this matter, a search under the Constitution. You just slept in the government, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is this the legislative path? In fact, at the last moment, we have submitted a committee project, which is extensive, with almost 100 pages. I firmly believe that in such a hurry the officers will not be harmed. Minister! Do you think that's the way the law is supposed to be? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u315	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Like my predecessors, I'd like to ask you a question. Is it correct to present a government project that we treat it as a commission project? I'm asking for an answer. Has the submitted project been prepared in the Ministry? If so, in front of millions We lie to Poles. You're part of it, we're part of it, and we're pretending to be something. I would like to say that the intention of the opposition is for this project to enter into force as soon as possible, but a lie is not the right way to proceed. We agreed to all the jobs. The country, as my predecessors said, had a year for it. And today you want to drop the responsibility on the committee that this is her project. We didn't exactly apologize, ladies and gentlemen, because you didn't give us a chance. Please answer the question: Is the State [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did you prepare this project in the ministry, in the government? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u317	Thank you, Member. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is indeed outrageous. You're just cheating every step of the way. It's a government project, isn't it? I wonder where Minister Zieliński is, who should come and apologize to everyone for not doing anything for a year. [[Applause]] There's a time for confetti, there's a time for opening schools, opening precincts, driving around Poland for all the celebrations, for the minister to show up in Podlasie, and why doesn't he get to work? Question: "Why are you cheating and saying that this is a parliamentary project?" As a member of the committee, I have nothing to do with this project, and why should I say it's a parliamentary project? Do any of the Members have anything to do with this bill? No. Why are you cheating? It would seem that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration should ensure compliance with the law, and on good day it breaks the law. He's breaking the law because he's cheating, he's lying. It's not right. And I would like you all to... Mr Sulfur is not here. I didn't see any self-criticism on the part of Law and Justice to come and say, "I'm sorry, we didn't notice, for a year, that we had to process this bill by the end of the year." Why don't you have the courage to come and apologize to the public? I know it's not right to admit the error of law and justice. When it is simply the best government since the Second Republic of Poland, it is not right to admit a mistake. But it's just not fair, it's unfair to people. Why? Because this is a law that deals with very sensitive issues related [[♪ The bell ♪]] with citizens and the lack of the position of ombudsman, for example, discriminates against you as those who should be involved in law-making at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u319	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u320	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, Minister Kozłowski, present here, collects the thunderstorms that Minister Zieliński deserved, who did not have the courage to stand here and tell us why he delayed the preparation of this project all year long. So that I sympathize, Minister, with this role. Of course, you're doing the best you can. On the other hand, as for Minister Zieliński, I would like to say that we will ask Mr Zieliński why he did not have time to prepare this bill in due time. Isn't that, I don't know, handing out car keys that have already passed 10,000. km, did any other obstacles make Minister Zieliński not prepare this project? I wanted to ask, Minister Kozłowski, about the issue of cameras. If the search is carried out, the activities referred to in this law will be carried out against the citizens, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it possible for this to be in a room that is equipped with monitoring, or will citizens be sure that these activities will not be recorded? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u321	Thank you very much, sir. And I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Krzysztof Kozłowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u322	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, First of all, I would like to thank you very much for this act of responsibility, the gesture of responsibility on the part of the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which, using its powers, has adopted a draft legislative initiative, which today the High Sejm is considering. I would like to remind you that this legislative initiative primarily serves to enforce the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which has challenged the existing regulations setting out the rules and procedures for personal checks. The Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that the definition in the Regulation of a matter which concerns interference with the right to privacy must be laid down in the Act, because this act is competent to prejudice these matters. Thank you very much to all Members for the work that has taken place so far in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, for all the votes that have been cast during the discussion. I am convinced that this law fulfils this one basic objective for which it has been prepared, namely in a proper, exhaustive and reliable manner it protects citizens' rights in the course of these activities, which are related to the search, with personal control. Members have asked a number of very diverse questions. Mr Piotr Pyzik asked if there would be room for a statement from the person checked in the personal inspection report. I would like to point out that, following the entry into force of this law, the executive authority, in this case the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, will have 12 months to issue a new regulation which will lay down rules for documenting the conduct of personal inspection activities. This legal act will also identify and accept this possibility. The Members also asked for this accelerated, extraordinary procedure to proceed over the bill. I would like to point out that the judgment of the Constitutional Court contains a clause on the deferral of its entry into force for a period of 18 months. Therefore, starting from 23 December, the legislator will still have six months to adopt any statutory provisions. On the other hand, the urgency of the procedure is due to the need to maintain the implementing rules, which will expire 12 months from the date of publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in the Official Journal of the Law. However, I would like to encourage you to be a little adamant about the thunderstorms we have just heard about here. Please note that everything happens within defined and provided for by law, including the Constitution, deadlines. We still have six months to change the law, but it is indeed necessary to proceed more urgently on this project because of the need to maintain the implementing rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What do you mean? Do we or don't we?]] [[What's going on here?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u323	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, will also speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u324	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The bill under review is very difficult in its field. However, it should be stressed that the Constitutional Tribunal has bowed down several times on matters of freedom and citizens' rights: seven times between 2000 and 2017. These problems we are considering today, of course, have an extremely important content, but in fact we are not introducing new content. We introduce into the bill what should have been introduced 21 years ago when the law was adopted. Very clearly, it is clearly described that all these actions which the police and other services take are to be described in the Act. If, today, Members who have been in the Seym for many years say that suddenly something came up that they didn't know about, they didn't anticipate anything, it's not true. I can make it clear that everyone who has been in this Seym for at least one term, and there are Members here who have spent a lot of time in the Seym, and have allowed such a... I know that this is very difficult matter, which is why the Constitutional Tribunal has examined it seven times, which can be verified. He made very serious judgments on this matter. However, if it has taken so many years and we finally come to the conclusion that the legally abnormal situation is regulated after 21 years of validity, then please keep a little moderation in these speeches, ladies and gentlemen. There's no new matter in this bill. This bill... [[The procedure is important.]] I'm sure your marshal will allow you to speak culturally here. This law introduces only this matter, the scope of the matter, which was practiced in regulations and regulations. That's the change. Therefore, to all those who have shown understanding and worked on this bill, I thank you very sincerely, and to all those who, in a way, would say, not always pleasantly protested, I simply forgive their behaviour. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Mutually.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u326	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I've asked you a question about monitoring in the course of your activities. The Minister didn't answer. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u327	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 13 December this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. The first statement is made by Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform - Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Statement for December 13th. Commemorating the next anniversary of the blow which in December 1980 a group of communist criminals in the service of Soviet Russia gave to the Polish people, I would like to focus on what is beautiful in this terrible history. Maybe what I'm saying will seem strange, because how to find beauty in pacifying with tanks, rifles and batons of people breaking free. Of course, there's no way. But even in those dark years, there was beauty. Hidden from the words of the Holy Father John Paul II. He not only called on the Holy Spirit to renew the face of our homeland, but his pontificate began with the three most important words: Don't be afraid. Yet we, during strikes - interned, imprisoned, beaten and interrogated, but also waiting for our loved ones, and we did not know whether they would come back, we were afraid: some more, others less. During these terrible moments, the words of the pope Pole were like heat hidden under cold ashes. This spark sprouted in Polish hearts, fear subsided, for it increased love for the country, true solidarity between people and the feeling that despite such a terrible position we would prevail, that freedom would triumph over vileness, lying and enslavement. And it was really beautiful. There were not many such Polish hearts, but there were also a handful of them, which did not mean much. It was from those valiant hearts that freed themselves from the terror of martial law, upon which the shadow of the grim East had lost its influence, that the spirit of freedom was reborn on a mass scale. From this point on, as a Member of the Lightest Republic, I would like to pay tribute to all my colleagues, acquaintances and strangers who have not succumbed. It is thanks to you that we have free Poland, yet imperfect, still burdened with the mass of evil remaining after decades of Soviet enslavement and demoralization, but our own, in words of the word, our great collective duty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u329	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On November 18th, exactly one week after the great national holiday, 100 years of regaining independence by the Lightest Republic, I organized a volleyball tournament in my hometown, where more than 100 players, 12 teams from northern Wielkopolska through their participation, through their involvement showed what athletes do best: their love of the country shown through sports activity. I wanted to thank all of these people very much for their participation in this day in this tournament, but above all for their honoring the Lightest Republic of Poland during this great holiday, which is the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. I would particularly like to thank Mr Sebastian Kaczmark, Mr Paul Lisiecki, Mr Jan Wojtecki and Mr Krzysztof Śmigaj for their participation in this way, their homage to the Independent, and by the way they showed what athletes showed the best: commitment and character. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u331	Please, Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thirty-seven years ago, martial law was introduced. Communist authorities have declared war on their own nation. WRON was established and then the Gehenna of the Polish people began. The martial law, introduced on 13 December 1981, lasted until 1989. Formally it was dissolved in 1983, but the rigors of martial law lasted until 1989. These 8 years were the withdrawal of several dozen years of Poland's development. That's what the communists came up with. Internmental prisons were filled. Today, sources say about 10,000. Solidarity activists, but these were the most common activists of the anti-communist underground, were imprisoned without a sentence. These interns, these prisoners of the communist regime, they were able to behave themselves. Today we recall the memory of those heroes who, in dangerous conditions for themselves, for their families and for the whole country, were able to stand by the values that were carried by the solidarity, i.e. in defence of the dignity of the worker, the Polish citizen, and in pursuit of regaining the full independence and sovereignty of Poland, because the Polish People's Republic was not sovereign, independence was not. PZPR, ZSL and SD co-managed at the time, in subjection to the Soviet Union. The nation ascended massively into the "Solidarity." About 10 million Poles joined the solidarity, was the workers' solidarity and rural solidarity. These two currents, these two people's movements were supporting each other. Today, I want to pay tribute and respect to all people from the Parliament because they have contributed to regaining the full independence that we are enjoying today. Today, on the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence - this is the year 2018 - we are grateful to the Poles who pursued the goal and achieved it. Many, of course, have died. Only during martial law did more than 100 people die. Today, the Institute of National Remembrance plays an important role and restores the memory of heroes fighting independence. People of Solidarity, all those interned, prisoners were heroes of independence struggle. Today, for their attitude, example, and example, we pay homage to them. I would like to thank the Government of Law and Justice and President Andrzej Duda, who is giving these heroes national distinctions. Giving national distinctions to heroes, he shows the next generation that in every situation we must defend the independence and sovereignty of our homeland. Today we learn that in Warsaw we have announced the restoration of the names of streets dedicated to communists, leaving the changed names, where heroes were restored as patrons. I'm sure the interns and the prisoners of war wouldn't want that. The presently governing Civic Platform in Warsaw should consider, because it stands on the same footing with all those who did not want the full sovereignty and independence of our homeland. I want to quote one more circular slogan that united Poles at war: The Eagle of the crow will not defeat. Therefore, Platform, do not join the crows that were given to Poles for martial law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-12-13-sejm-74-2.u333	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 14 December 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 17 min 19]]
