ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u1	Resume session. High Seym! May I have your attention, please? On 18 September 2018, a member of the Second term of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, Marian Michalski, from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party died. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord...]] [[Members:...and let eternal light shine upon him.]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[Members: Amen.]] Thank you. I would like to call on Mr Katarzyna Osos, Mr Wojciech King, Mr Krzysztof Kubow and Mr Daniel Milewski to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, the Secretaries will be Mr Krzysztof Kubów and Mr Daniel Milewski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Daniel Milewski and Katarzyna Osos. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u2	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 9.15, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 9.15, - to the Energy and Treasury together with the Committee on Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Poselska etiquette - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9.30 a.m., - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10, - Health-- hour. 10, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 10.15, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11 a.m. 11.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - to the Energy and Treasury together with the Committee on Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public finance - also hours. 13.30, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 2.30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 4.30 p.m. and 3 p.m. 17, - Public Finance - hour. 18. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Craft and Vocational Education Team - hour. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Culture and Tradition of Hunting - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 15, - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 18.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u3	Thank you, sir. The Health Commission has submitted a report on the Government's draft Cosmetics Act, print No 2880. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the discussion on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted an additional report on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on State Labour Inspection, print No 2814-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the third reading of this draft law. The competent committees have submitted an opinion on the candidate for the Ombudsman, print No 2884. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with the following point: Appointment of an Ombudsman for the rights of the child. We return to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. The statutory majority is 231. The vote was 166, against 226, with 15 abstentions. [[Voice from the hall: Eve!]] [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] I state that the Sejm has rejected the proposal in the absence of the required majority. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the Self-Government Road Fund. There was a motion in the discussion to reject the bill... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Felczyński's on the phone. ...at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. Before the vote, a formal motion was tabled by Mr Bogdan Rzoniec, a club called Law and Justice. There you go. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're dealing with something extraordinary in the Seym today. We have a well-prepared project about the Self-Government Road Fund, which is waiting mainly for residents, not politicians, residents of municipalities, powiats. [[Radom.]] [[They're looking in Radom.]] They're waiting for it. And here it turns out that the opposition in the Polish parliament does not want this bill. The opposition doesn't want there to be better pavements, better roads for people to travel safer on the roads. [[Yes, to Radom.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extraordinary act of desperation of the opposition, which no longer knows what to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What was it, Mr Kidawa-Błońska?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u5	But, sir, this was not a formal proposal. Excuse me, please don't abuse the rules of the Sejm. [[Voice from the Chamber: Yes, Mr Costowniak.]] The question is raised by Mr Stanisław Tyszka, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project has a long history. First, the state of the party of power tried to introduce the Self-Government Road Fund, setting a fuel levy, which resulted in an increase in fuel price of 25 gr per litre. People were very upset, and you pulled out of it. Later, the Fuels and Biocomponents Act introduced 10 gr per litre, increasing the price of fuels by 10 gr, while promising that this money would go to battle with smog, to fight for clean air. Now the local government campaign is coming up, and you're back on the project of the Self-Government Road Fund. You have transferred the money that you are pulling out of Polish drivers' pockets, weakening the entire Polish economy that was going to fight smog, and you want to finance your friendly local governments for it. This is an outrageous project. I appeal for his rejection at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u7	The question is asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - UED, or Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you had brought this project in two and a half years ago, it would have been a credible project. [[And you were eight years ago.]] But since 2.5 years you have been unbelievable about local roads and supporting local governments. [[Applause]] In 2016 and 2017, you brutally took over all the funds allocated to the local road fund that you could. Local governments received nearly 0.5 billion less than what we gave as the previous coalition. The question is: Why was this money less and why were they divided only according to a political criterion? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u9	At least the question was asked. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal Tyszek, whom I rarely agree with, is actually right. The project is absolutely sloppy. The financing of this project is absolutely outrageous. Instead of the environmental fund, instead of the clean air and fighting smog, billions of zlotys will go on the road. The defense funds, the weapons will go to the roads, and there's no telling where, instead of the weapons. The way these funds are distributed is absolutely non-transparent. You have to tell yourself openly that these funds will go to your colleagues. These are just funds for colleagues. In principle, this project should be rejected, but on the other hand, we all know how important self-government roads are, which is why the Modern will not vote against this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll see what happens on the committee, and then we'll make a decision. Thank you very much. [[Coalition, coalition.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u11	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you one thing. We are dealing with the following situation: a proposal has been presented, which is not a proposal, and there are Members of the House who do not ask questions. Then why don't we set up a rule book? I would at least ask Mr. Caesar Grabarczyk, Member of the Civic Platform, to ask you a question. Maybe: Is it true that... Oh! [[Because punishment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Government! I wanted to ask if Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki remembered the amount of 5400 million, because it was the amount that was spent by the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party on schetinówki. [[Applause]] Because he wrote the corrigendum, I assume he did. But has he already learned that, in addition to this money, 5400 million, the government of the Platform and PSL spent 2650 million as part of the general subsidy reserve? Those drugs went to the roads, too. [[Applause]] [[The companies were falling.]] The project was sloppyly prepared. We'll fix it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u13	Mr Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! Because the scale of lies and manipulation by politicians of total opposition was a very large moment ago, I ask the Minister of Infrastructure to answer the following questions: Is it true that this year, in 2018, the local, municipal and district government allocated PLN 1300 million to the roads, in two tranches? One tranche, 800 million PLN, within the Ministry of Infrastructure and the second tranche, 500 million PLN, within the Ministry of Investment and Development. Ladies and gentlemen! Here's another thing. You're saying that these funds went to the municipalities and districts where Law and Justice rule. I would like the Law and Justice to rule in every municipality of the Pomeranian Voivodeship or in every municipality of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. Ladies and gentlemen, there were about PLN 100 million in both programmes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Mr. Minister, is law and justice ruled there?" Thank you very much. [[But we're talking billions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u15	You don't need a minister to answer that question. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk wants to answer another question or comment on the statements of Members. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I answer the questions that have been raised here and which concern the draft law on the Fund for Local Roads. It is true that local governments are waiting for this bill, and I assure you that all countries present here, whether they have connotations or not, what their political provinces are, whether they are sympathizers of Modern, Civic Platform, Law and Justice, or PSL. The government tells us directly: you have prepared the project that we are waiting for. Why are you so late? Why not before? [[Was there a consultation? Was there a committee meeting?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are presenting a draft law on the Fund for Roads of Local Government, which provides that next year, an unprecedented amount of over PLN 6 billion will support local governments in the implementation of municipal roads, district roads, construction of bridges in local roads, especially voivodships, construction of defence roads. For this project, the whole of Poland, Poland, is waiting for these decisions, which spends a lot of time in road congestion on municipal roads, district roads with poor technical condition, all of Poland, which knows that on these roads there are very many accidents, traffic tragedies. I would like to ask that we focus above all on the substance, not on political threads. [[Ha, ha, ha! An election campaign.]] It doesn't matter here, and the arguments you made yesterday and today are absolutely impossible. If what you declare to be true is what you declare at meetings related to the local government campaign, at parliamentarians' meetings with voters, that you wish to support them, then support the project prepared by the Government of Law and Justice, prepared by the United Right, which concerns the Self-Government Road Fund. All of Poland is waiting for this program. If we succeed in adopting this bill, we will launch another call for proposals for next year. Let me remind you and answer the question whether it is true that we are spending this year in support of local and district initiatives, 1300 million. Yes, it is true that we spend 1,300 million PLN. Remind you when you achieved this level of support in one year. Never. That's just the way it is. Let us be glad that the funds from the state budget go to local governments. You can share in this joy too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u17	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 2859, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 409 Members voted. The vote was 26, against 355, with 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for consideration. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Social Policy Committee. Questions are asked by Members. Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u18	High Seym! It is clear that more resources are needed to support people with disabilities. But is it necessary to set up a new, separate fund for this purpose? Do we need to create a new bureaucratic structure? In order to take over part of the tax and part of the contribution to the Labour Fund, a new fund is created under beautiful names: solidarity, disability. Yet there has been a State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities for a long time. Why, then, do you not transfer this additional contribution from the Labour Fund and these additional tax revenues directly to the State Fund for Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities? [[Applause]] Question to Minister Rafalska: Does the creation of a separate new fund mean a vote of distrust for PFRON? Of course, the media has long been reporting the waste of huge money in PFRON. But does that mean you're gonna create a new fund and he's gonna multiply red tape? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're admitting it in your own justification for this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u19	Thank you. Mr Kornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u20	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have a question not even to the Minister of Labour, not even to the Prime Minister for Social Affairs Beata Szydło, because she was not during the protest of people with disabilities in the Seym, when Prime Minister Morawiecki promised people with disabilities that he would create conditions for them, give them free rehabilitation, free unlimited services, raise their benefits. That was the promise. I have a question: Why did the Prime Minister lie to people with disabilities? This fund is not aimed at people with disabilities. This is the fund from which the friendly foundations will be financed and government programs such as the Lifetime Programme will be implemented. That money won't go to people with disabilities. These are money taken from people without a job, unemployed, because money is taken from the Labour Fund, and it is money that will come from a solidarity tribute, i.e. another Janoskie. You take the richest to give yours. You're not helping the poorest. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u21	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of your Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of Draft Printing Law No 2848, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 411 Members voted. 170 voted against - 227, with 14 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent it to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. We are returning to the review of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to introduce simplifications for entrepreneurs in tax and economic law. In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. The proposal given by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer this draft law to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation for consideration. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent this proposal to the Committee on Economics and Development. The question is asked by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you a question. Why, what caused you to refer this bill to a deregulation committee, not a Committee on Economics and Development? Is this part of a democratic package that works on the principle that all projects that are to be submitted to the committee of substance, but one whose chairman is of opposition, go not there, but to the deregulation committee specifically set up for this purpose? The vote against this proposal will indicate that you have confidence, however, also in the Members of the Law and Justice, who sit on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and very substantively and are able to approach all the projects that are being examined in this committee. I therefore ask you very much to reject this proposal and pass the law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u23	Thank you. That is actually a question addressed to the Sejm Bureau. I reply to you, Mr President, as follows: so far all the regulations on the simplification of the procedure in question have been addressed to the deregulation committee. So this is where the same rule was adopted as before. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you is in favour of sending the draft law in print No 2862 to the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 410 Members voted. 242 voted against - 164, with 4 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 29 hours 9 min 33]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. I would like to ask Members of the Law and Justice Club: Jerzy Bielecki, Sławomir Zawiślak and Piotr Olszówka. This is a question about the outcome of the third stage of the competition organised under the.Polish digital programme. Please, Mr Jerzy Bielecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Polish digital programme is a very important activity for the development of the district Poland. Access to broadband internet will be one of the main sources of development, therefore I am very interested in following the implementation of this programme, especially in my province, Lublin Voivodeship, where only in the third competition was it possible to find willing operators to implement high-capacity Internet networks. I would like to ask the question whether agreements with selected operators have been signed in all areas of the Lublin Voivodeship. What are the deadlines for completing the investment and launching the network? Will all schools from Lublin Voivodeship be included in this program? Following the information contained on the website of the Projektów Poland Digital Centre, I have the impression that part of the commune of Godziszów and Dzwola in Janów County is not included in the program. Can the Minister dispel my doubts?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Zagórski is responsible for digitization.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! In fact, I confirm, the Operational Programme of Poland digital, and especially its first axis, is extremely important for the economic development of Poland, the development of civilization, because we are talking here about the construction of this infrastructure element, which will constitute the modernity of the Polish economy and access to modern technologies in the best possible way, i.e. on the basis of a fiber optic network. The investments we are making are at the moment the biggest investments in Europe. The value of the entire programme is over PLN 6 billion, of which the funding under the OP PC programme is PLN 4 billion. The programme assumes in principle the elimination of white spots. The elimination of white spots, i.e. the elimination of areas for which we have identified an impossibility, the willingness over the coming years to invest in the fibre network by telecommunications operators. This programme is implemented on the basis of special research carried out and as a result we have divided Poland into several dozen competition areas, where we have selected telecommunications operators who make investments from funding in various stages. Thus, in the first and second competitions, the first one of its nature was of very little importance, the second competition was important for us, and we selected the operators who set up investments that assume the coverage of 1 036 540 households and the connection to the high-speed Internet of 7900 educational establishments, and the amount of funding for projects in the first and second competition is over PLN 2200 million. It is still worth noting, because it is such an element that differs this project from previous investments under the so-called. regional broadband networks in the previous programming period, that we are talking about investments made by telecom operators and not by local authorities in that case. Investments therefore go directly to consumers and are therefore effective. At the same time, we decided to ensure the even distribution of this fibre network across Poland by obliging all beneficiaries to connect all educational institutions to this network. This will result in an even distribution of this network of at least 20,000. location of schools, and this also gives us the opportunity to carry out another project, which is the National Education Network. As far as Lublin Voivodeship is concerned, the problem in Lublin Voivodeship was indeed one of the biggest, because none of the operators really wanted to invest there. Not only did he not want to invest commercially, on a larger scale, but he did not want to invest in the first and second competitions. Only in the third contest, when we changed the rules, did we divide Lubelskie Voivodeship into 12... 13 areas, because one area is shared with the Mazowieckie voivodship - such a Radom sub-area - we have selected contractors for all competition areas. With all contractors already signed contracts and value, the results of this project will be the following. Well, almost 700,000 will be attached. households. The value of this project on the scale of Lublin Voivodeship in this combined area will be PLN 1143 million, of which public funding will amount to 750 million. This is, as you will find out, the biggest investment under the Operational Programme in Poland digital, the biggest investment in the fibre network will be in Lublin Voivodeship. As part of this project, as I said, all schools in the Lublin Voivodeship which do not yet have access to broadband internet will be connected. The duration of this project, each of these projects, is 36 months, but one of the main indicators is the connection of 80% educational establishments within 18 months, so we can say that within the period from today, within 2 years all educational establishments will be connected. It can also be said effectively that every third household in the Lublin Voivodeship will be connected to the high-speed network as part of this project. This is the scale of these investments. We believe that this will really be a very big impulse for the whole of Poland, but above all for the Lublin Voivodeship. We expect the effects to be visible in the coming months. Now the process of preparing these investments is underway, but I think that within 12 months we will have the first results in the form of connected households and connected schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u27	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Jerzy Bielecki, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u28	Thank you very much for your answer. Minister! Mr. Marshal! By the way, I would like to ask about educational institutions in the Lublin Voivodeship, which have a technical possibility to run a fast Internet in them. There are schools in villages where there are access points working on fiber optics in school buildings, e.g. in the villages Otrocz or Kocudza in the Janów County. Can they already be included in the National Education Network? I don't think there's any reason that students of such small schools can no longer benefit from the benefits of the Law on the National Education Network passed by the Sejm a year ago. Here Maria Zuba asks that the Minister respond to the situation in Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Zagórski is again responsible for digitization. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u30	The process of building the National Education Network is linked to the first stage of connecting schools, in short, to fiber optics, to fiber optics. This is carried out both under the Operational Programme and under the investment of its own telecommunications operators. It goes like I said, in the second step. Therefore, this year we plan to join 1500 schools to the OSE, to the National Education Network, which means we will provide free Internet to these educational institutions where such a technical possibility exists. At the moment, we have selected almost 2800 schools that can already be connected, of which about 1300 have already signed contracts. These schools will be connected to the OSE network within the next 4 and 5 months. Therefore, we are talking about the number of about 1500 locations still this year. As far as specific locations are concerned, it is easy for me to say that schools from Świętokrzyskie voivodship will also be in this number. There'll be a couple hundred of these schools. However, there will be no schools from Lublin Voivodeship this year. The ones that already have the fiber will be next year. This is related to the technical construction of the network itself which NASK is building. These schools, which are connected this year, are based on one of the main connections available that NASK has. Next year, the nodes to which individual schools will be attached will be 16. Therefore, there will be no restrictions of this type. In any case, we assume as planned that this year it will be 1500 locations, next year it will be 12.5 thousand. further locations of schools connected to the National Education Network. So in this number there will also be all those schools from Lublin Voivodeship, which will already have a fiber optic connection. On the other hand, those which will be joined in this third competition will probably be joined by the OSE at the turn of 2019 and 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u31	Thank you very much, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Mr Janusz Cichoń from the Civic Platform asks a question about the typing of entities for tax control. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Director of the Board of Tax Administration in Kielce has recently sent recommendations to subordinate tax offices for the typing of entities for checks, in which he indicates that tax checks are to be carried out only for entrepreneurs who have assets. It also requires that it be assessed whether it will be possible to immediately draw the money back to the state budget after the inspection. Thus, the basic criterion of typing for control becomes the wealth of entrepreneurs, not the risk analysis and the fact of cheating on taxes. The pillars, fraudsters may feel safe because the tax authorities will not initiate proceedings in their case, but control those entities that have assets or are in good financial condition, honest entities. Question: "Is this practice commonly used in the bodies of the KAS at present, and has the Minister ordered the units of the field to do so - it is probably wrong to say - to select entities for control?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Cybulski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u34	High Izbo! Dear Marshal, I would like to answer this question, which has practically appeared for a long time. All these doubts that the opposition raises regarding the operation of the National Tax Administration are directed in such a special way, such a distrustful one, indicating that something really bad is happening, something dangerous, when it comes to entrepreneurs and about what is happening in the National Tax Administration. I wanted to say first of all, to ensure that we carry out tasks based on the National Tax Administration Act, based on tax laws and all tasks we carry out primarily on the basis of law. Second thing. We are also implementing the latest legal provisions related to business law related to the constitution for business, and we are fully aware that we are primarily meant to serve honest entrepreneurs and reduce their risk of doing business. So our actions are directed towards what is clearly written in the assumptions of the National Tax Administration - we can read it, read it - that the National Tax Administration is primarily intended to assist honest entrepreneurs in their activities, secondly, to fight against the grey and black zone, thirdly, to protect the borders of the European Union. And that's what we do. Of course, there's a question about Kielce. In fact, it is a question that may have resulted from misunderstood or ripped from the context of certain actions of the Director of the Board of Tax Administration in Kielce. I think you already know that, because we have repeatedly responded to various kinds of interpellations, questions of the State in this matter. I would like to say once again that the number of tax checks is, of course, falling and I suspect it will be falling. The task of tax controls is not to collect extra money, just as some people here are trying to prove. The purpose of tax control is to increase tax discipline among taxpayers and, above all, to bring about voluntary tax clearance. That's basic. Here we don't reach into the pocket for extra money, we don't want to chase honest taxpayers. First of all, we want these controls to be as low as possible, we want to implement the principles of the business constitution, we want entrepreneurs to act in the most convenient way, as safe as possible, so that they have a good economic environment, so that they feel safe among their competitors, who are not always honest, apply various types of tax fraud, which makes them more attractive on the market. As the National Tax Administration within our powers and capabilities, we want to bring about, we bring about the reality of economic life. Why did I say it's a good thing that these controls and safeguards are less that these restrictive measures are less? This is because we have focused above all on analytical activities. You know that we are introducing a new kind of legislative solution. We've introduced sealing packages, fuel packs, transport monitors, SENT, and we've also introduced the STIR Act. All economic links, all economic activities are analysed using the JPK analytical system. Therefore, we move away from such hard controls. As I said before, we want to make life as difficult as possible for taxpayers. And if from any of the writings that come to you, you read the signals saying that something bad is happening, then I say it is not true. It's out of context. These are some sentences ripped out of context that you sometimes try to manipulate or intimidate entrepreneurs and say that the situation is very bad. I stress that with regard to the operation of the National Tax Administration, the situation is good and goes in the right direction. There's no pathology here. If there are any isolated cases, we react quickly to this type of action. As far as safeguards are concerned, I would just like to remind you that, for example, in 2014 and 2015, these safeguards were actually very much, but they were safeguards for poles, for non-existent entities. The pillars were treated actually the same as the taxpayers. They were sent to the poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Calls, and it's known that criminals don't respond to calls, so it was hard to talk about tax collection here. Indeed, the collection of this tax was low, even fatal, because only 1 million could be obtained out of 7 million secured tax revenues in 2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u35	Thank you very much. A further question is asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u36	Minister! Your answer about typing was one argument, one reason: if you have a fortune, we will pursue you, if you do not have a fortune, even though you commit a crime, we do not pursue you, we do not care. Why am I saying this? Because it's not defending itself. Your answer to the fuel seal does not defend itself, because the increase in fuel sales is about 15%. and the increase in fuel and excise duties is a dynamic of around 5%. So that's the argument: we go after honest people because they have wealth. Be afraid. As regards the criterion concerning inter alia. the value of the arrangements or collateral, whether contributions to the budget, was the average set by the UKS in 2015 amounted to PLN 6 million, and by the National Tax Administration - PLN 1.5 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Typing. Why are you guys beating each other up? Why are you chasing honest men who have wealth and who may have been wrong, and in relation to criminals, the state shows how friendly you are to them?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u38	That's how it's supposed to be interpreted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Cybulski again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. [[That's what you're gonna say. We're waiting for an answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u40	High Izbo! Dear Marshal, We're confusing certain concepts. I would like to reiterate once again that control measures are directed towards those entities that are legally active in the market. On the other hand, when it comes to carousel activities, illegal activities, criminal activities - the state claims that there is no such action that we only act against those who have property - it is carried out in separate investigations and proceedings. We cannot treat, as I said before, taxpayers and criminals on an equal footing within the framework of tax control. We confuse certain facts, we confuse certain things. Indeed, in 2014 and 2015, certain activities were carried out precisely in such a way that the criminal could not be distinguished from the taxpayer, checks were carried out against all. I've already said that, but now maybe I'll make it even more clear: they've been conducted in front of everyone. There were calls sent to cheaters. It is known that the cheater does not respond to calls, but we treated the cheaters and taxpayers equally. At the moment, as the National Tax Administration, we have separated these two topics. We are clearly acting against criminals and there are clear actions that you see and about which you are informed, the media are also informed. These actions are effective, they are clear and give real revenue to the state budget. We don't want fiction, we don't want just numbers. Of course, the Member here is very nice, very interestingly pointing to numbers, but these are just numbers. We're talking about the effects of actions, not numbers. Numbers create some kind of fiction. We don't want to act fictionally, we want to act really and we want to act really. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u41	Minister, if there are no checks carried out, there is no chance that those who break the rules may be subject to a separate procedure. Not a chance. You're not a psychic. You're not a psychic, and you can't say if you don't carry out a check...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u42	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u43	...to whom to conduct prosecutions. That's the statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u44	Madam, you have no voice, and the Minister can no longer answer that question. [[He couldn't do it anyway.]] Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Modern Club asks a question about the process of deciding to change the course of the S12 route. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u45	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to the reliable activity of the journalistic environment, society regularly receives information about various irregularities, various cases that occur throughout Poland. If it weren't for the honest work of journalists, we wouldn't be able to get to know it. And so a few days ago, this honest work of journalists also caused the whole Poland to learn that the inhabitants of Kowala were faced with a fact, i.e.. The S12 road, which goes through the centre of the municipality, is designed to cause massive demolitions, although several months before it was very real, it was a variant that ran past the village, through uninhabited areas that did not disturb anyone. However, as it is, the background we all know. That's why we have specific questions. Firstly, was the procedure for the preparation of the S12 road covered by an anti-corruption shield? And if not, why not? Secondly, is there documentation of the meetings that took place on the course of the road, which would indicate when, at what stage and who lobbied for the specific course of the road? Next: Is it true that a variant of the road has been prepared, that it runs through a newly built housing estate, which did not enjoy the interest of buyers? Why, according to the inhabitants of the municipality of Kowala, did the officials inform the inhabitants of the municipality that the decision on the road had already been made and there is no possibility to change this decision? Why a variant of the road through the middle of the municipality of Kowala was prepared, causing sharp turns, exposing drivers to accidents, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Although, according to the locals, it seems logical and safe to go beyond built-up areas?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Chodkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, answers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u47	And is it true that there has been a way through local law and justice activists? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The task of building the S12 road is included in the National Road Construction Programme, but without funding. It will be launched in the next perspective, but preparatory work on this task is ongoing. To my knowledge, Mr President, this is a task of little value - this is preparatory work. It was not covered by an anti-corruption umbrella, because no financial decisions have been made yet, which I am about to talk about. In September 2017, a contract was signed for the development of a technical and environmental study together with materials for obtaining decisions on the environmental conditions for the implementation of the project of the section of Radom South-Puławy. It should therefore be stressed here that the preparatory work is currently being carried out in order to identify the optimal preferred route option. This phase has been in progress since September 2017 and will continue until mid-2020. Designers working on behalf of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, as with all such agreements, prepare possible variants of the course, presenting them to local authorities and the public during information meetings. The Ministry of Infrastructure does not interfere with the selection process or the detailed results of analyses, these are complex, very specialised issues concerning the design of environmental conditions, economic analyses, etc. It should be made clear that at this stage of the investment process no decision has been taken on the choice of the option of the S12 route. In advance of the questions, I will say at once: none, not total, not partial, nor foreboding - none. It is completely unfounded to say that at this stage any choice has been made. The process of road design is still ongoing, with two tours of information meetings with residents and actors from the areas of the municipalities through which this road will take place. With regard to the raised issue of changing the option of the road path, I would like to stress that nothing like this has happened. In the course of the work, various options of the road are being developed and considered, which are then presented to the public at information meetings. However, I would like to stress strongly once again that none of the options that have been developed and presented so far is yet to be the final preferred option. They are all developed with the same accuracy, care and degree of detail. The selection of the proposed courses was influenced mainly by protests of the inhabitants of Kowali, Gozdu and Skarishev. For this reason, the company preparing the project materials is still working on further variants of the road, taking into account the needs and conclusions of the residents. Once again, I strongly stress that all these options are equivalent at this stage of the investment process. I would like to say one more thing: that the option will be chosen by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways does not prejudge the fact that it will be recognised by the Regional Environment Director. The option shall be indicated in the decision issued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs following the administrative procedure, including on the basis of an analysis of the material provided by the investor and taking into account the public consultation process. I will immediately say that it has also happened that the option finally adopted by WDOŚ was quite different than that presented as recommended by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. In conclusion, the final route of the S12 road around Radom will be indicated by the Regional Environment Director by administrative means after all necessary documents have been produced by an independent company and accepted by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. With regard to the issue that you have mentioned, the ownership of land near which the S12 road will eventually take place, I would like to inform you that the issue of ownership of parcels, particularly private land, is not taken into account at all at the stage of designing the investment process. During the preparatory work phase, they are not carefully examined, identified specific properties that will possibly be necessary in the future to carry out the task. This is related, among other things. the fact that several options are currently being considered, and that work at this stage is carried out on materials with less detail. Only at the stage of drawing up detailed technical documentation and obtaining the decision to allow road investment is the specific real estate that will be needed for the implementation of the road. Not now. In order to complete the information, I am sending you back to the website because [[♪ The bell ♪]] The road has its website: s12-radom-pulave, on which the routes are marked, and comparing this with Geoportal, possibly you can gain an accurate knowledge of the distance at which these parcels are, and see that this has nothing to do with the course of the S12 road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u49	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u50	The fact is that in the immediate vicinity of one of the variants of the S12 route the plot has PiS activists or members of their families. There will also be a missed investment by one of the businessmen associated with PiS politicians. Is that a coincidence? All of Poland today asks whether the PiS activists have such an extraordinary nose for business, or whether they have contacts in the Ministry of Infrastructure. Two specific questions: Did the leading PiS politicians lobby for choosing one of the specific variants of the S12 route? Did the team leader Mr. Costowniak meet with representatives of the Ministry, GDDKiA, or are there official notes from these meetings? On the Radom issue, there are multiple questions about the potential coconut interests of PiS activists and related individuals, and at the same time we hear on tapes concerning Prime Minister Morawiecki from PiS, how people should fuck for a bowl of rice to rebuild their economy. And here I purposely used a mild term instead of the vulgarities that Prime Minister Morawiecki used on this recording.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u51	Thank you. Mr Marek Chodkiewicz again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to propose to familiarize myself with this website, because there you can perfectly see where the plot of Councilman PiS from Radom is located. In my opinion, they lie 200 m from the envisaged variant of the route - 200 m. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes, exactly.]] So it doesn't matter. It is worse, because if the road runs by the houses, then on these plots, the Member, you can only lose and not gain. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u53	But you don't have the floor now, sir. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Chodkiewicz: On the other hand, when it comes to this unfortunate developer, it is also within a short distance, but there will be no demolitions, this road has nothing to do with the developer. You're beating the foam in cases that don't matter at all, the smallest. That poor developer who's having trouble selling, he's gonna have even more trouble selling 'cause nobody wants to live next to the high-speed road. So that's the problem. I mean, it's more of a problem for them than some kind of corrupt vision. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski from the club of the Polish People's Party asks a question about the difficult situation of ROTR Mlekarski Cooperative in Rypin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u54	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, On 31 January 1926 ROTR Mleczarska Cooperative was established in Rypin, which has been in operation for nearly 100 years, providing the highest quality products. Unfortunately, the cooperative is currently in a very difficult financial situation. Farmers have not been paid for milk delivered to a dairy cooperative in Rypin for months, resulting in a lack of raw material for processing and selling products. This is a huge number of suppliers, of which there were about 600 out of five voivodships, and the production capacity of the cooperative amounted to 700,000. And milk a day. Financial arrears towards farmers for payment for milk delivered today amount to over PLN 25 million. The situation is extremely serious. The cooperative is on the verge of liquidation bankruptcy, which cannot be allowed. In the event of bankruptcy, the cooperative will lose more than 200 people for years associated with the plant, which has often worked over 20 years. The company itself is also at risk of degradation, which, according to the experts, is a modern infrastructure on the basis of which it is possible to produce fully efficient and cost-effective production. Although the current situation of the cooperative appears to be very difficult, it is still real that the situation of the cooperative ROTR should be healed. The key to getting out of the crisis and avoiding the threat of physical liquidation of the cooperative plant is the rapid implementation of state aid mechanisms. Minister, please answer the following question: Was the current situation of ROTR in Rypin known to your ministry? What corrective action has been taken or is planned by the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to prevent the liquidation of ROTR Dairy Cooperative in Rypin, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and thus, the permanent liquidation of the jobs of the cooperatives held so far and the loss of real chances of meeting the suppliers who supplied the raw material to the cooperatives and not receiving payment for the milk delivered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u55	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, is responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! In fact, in this question, you presented in very detail the current situation of ROTR Dairy Cooperative in Rypin. This cooperative is in a lot of trouble. The only way out of this situation is to find an investor, so I'm going to say, who would like to resume production in this plant, because the situation today is that all the suppliers to whom the cooperative is behind with payments for the milk delivered have gone to other economic operators who pay a higher price for milk and pay in time, so I'm going to say. Therefore, the only way out Today is, I will repeat here, finding an investor who wants to resume production in this plant, because indeed the machinery park of the dairy cooperative is in good condition, but will want to resume production on the so-called. metastatic milk, because this milk in Poland we have enough to start production and try, in quotes, to invite co-owners and suppliers who delivered milk to Rypin, to return, but it will be quite a long time. Up until now, I have personally met with the new management of the dairy cooperative in Rypin three times, and the search is ongoing for a company that wishes to invest and, of course, not lose, but to resume this production and save this plant. I'm gonna say tonight that next week, Wednesday or Thursday, God forbid we make positive decisions. That's all I can give you today. [[Thank you, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u57	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Our question is so legitimate that the government, starting with the exposé, through all the speeches of the Minister of Agriculture here, declared huge support for agriculture. You said that it wouldn't be possible for farmers to lose in the countryside so that plants processing agricultural products would fall, that it was the ruins of their predecessors, that they were selling. So the question is justified, why is this still happening, because this threat is huge. Question is, what about the other bets? Are they similar? Because, as far as I know, it is in the Lublin Opole, in Łowicz. So does the government have a program? It was said a few months ago about the holding company, that an agricultural and processing holding company is to be created, which will fully remedy the situation. Do you have any idea today about this holding company, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because, as far as I'm concerned, there's no idea at all about that? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u59	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Romańczuk again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The dairy cooperative, like everyone else, is a private entity, it is the private property of the co-operatives. They worked together, co-managed the general assembly, supervised the board of directors. This is the case today, as the Member put it in his question. Therefore, I repeat once again that this is a private economic entity that operates on the free market, and right now the situation, I will repeat here, can only be that, as I said, next week, Wednesday or Thursday, we will have an answer - here I do not want it to be an assurance, because I would be dishonest - whether this investor we are talking to wants to take such action to heal this situation that is. I hope so, because the conversations are really very advanced. [[And could the State financially help this cooperative?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u61	Mr President, you no longer have the floor. State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Tadeusz Romanczuk: This cooperative is in very much debt, it is in financial difficulties and I do not see this possibility here. It is the redemption of debt and the form of so-called. restructuring only has to be the entity that will take care of it. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Mr Bogdan Rzońc will ask a question on support for the development of local roads. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to raise a topic related to the support of local roads, because there has been a problem for many years. The local authorities submit numerous proposals for financing municipal roads, sidewalks on communal roads, powiat roads, also voivodeships, but in particular these local roads: communal and district roads. Every year, the situation is repeated that these measures are simply not enough to meet all needs. However, the damage caused by bad roads and pavements is enormous. These are accidents, these are misfortunes, human dramas. I have a very graphic example, for example. In one school, children have to go to a moat in winter so that they can go to school at all, because this is the state of the road. Of course, this requires a lot of money, a lot of money, and we understand it, but today, after the 2014 NIK report, in which NIK points to a very bad technical state of the local roads, it is said that 36% of the roads are in bad shape and 35% are in bad shape. the roads are not satisfactory. Hence my question to the Minister: What kind of intervention will the government take in the near future so that we can meet these, say, the basic needs of the local community, because here we are not talking about the leaders or the elders, but we are talking about road users: children, those who go to church, school, shop, stop. These matters should, in our opinion, be dealt with quickly, responsibly. Therefore, asking the Minister to tell us what the Ministry's plans are in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Chodkiewicz, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of my speech I would like to recall this number: the number of kilometres of local roads is 374 thousand. It's a colossal number. The analysis of the 2 years of implementation of the municipal and district road infrastructure development programme in 2016 and 2017 shows that the funding from the state budget for the construction, reconstruction and renovation of district and municipal roads was significantly lower than the needs. The demand for funding was about 100% greater than the limits available. Given the limited financial capacity of local government units, it is not possible for them to involve more of their own resources and there is therefore a need to support them through a financial mechanism established at national level. Therefore, the Council of Ministers submitted to the Sejm a draft law on the Fund for the Roads of Local Government, which provides for the creation of a new support mechanism for local government units carrying out investments on public roads. The proposed changes in the way in which public road tasks managed by local government units are financed are designed to provide more financial resources together with ensuring their stability at the statutory level, as well as to increase flexibility in the spending of these funds through the abandonment of annual planning and the possibility of financing multi-annual tasks. The Self-Government Road Fund, please of the High House, will gather unprecedented measures to finance the actions taken by the local authorities. In 2019 it will be over PLN 6 billion. The fund will finance the construction, reconstruction and renovation of district and municipal roads, as well as the financing of tasks involving the construction of local bridges located in local roads. In addition, the Fund will finance investments on local roads, which were also considered relevant due to the defence of the Republic of Poland. Importantly, the funds raised by the Fund will allow for the financing of investments which were still eligible for support in 2018 under the rules laid down in the current municipal development programme and district road infrastructure. The mechanism will therefore be changed smoothly. It should be added that new rules will be introduced to grant subsidies under which multi-annual investment will be supported and that the value of the grant will be up to 30 million for one investment against the currently existing 3 million. The amount of funding from the fund for district and municipal tasks will also depend on the revenue of the local government unit concerned, applying the principle that the lower the own income of the entity concerned, the greater the value of the funding. It should also be noted that there is a change that this funding could be 80%. the value of the investment. So far, according to the current rules, it was 50-50, 50%. Some local authorities could not participate in this process because they could not find this 50% financing of their investments. Increasing the level of co-financing will allow the implementation of tasks in municipalities and poorer districts, which with 50% co-financing Like I said, they couldn't get it. The creation of the fund also aims to improve road safety, the technical parameters of the local road network, as well as to improve and increase the attractiveness and accessibility of investment areas. The Act also provides for support for the construction of bridges under which the local government units will be allocated funds to cover the preparation of investments under the programme of the Bridges for the regions. In order to encourage local authorities to implement bridge investments, which are important not only for the region but also for the whole country, the funding of these tasks will also cover 80% in any case. the cost of implementation, including access roads, so as to constitute a whole. The proposed law also aims to ensure stable financing of voivodship, district and municipal roads of defence importance. The development of road infrastructure will allow for the smooth adoption of allied forces to strengthen NATO in the territory of the Republic of Poland and will contribute to the maintenance and development of operational capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Infrastructure has proposed solutions that provide financial support to local governments of an unprecedented scale, especially to help poorer local authorities, contributing to equal opportunities for development and living standards of all Polish residents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u65	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Jerzy Paul.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you a question about the funding of bridges. Will the municipalities be able to apply for such funding? Until now, there have only been districts. That's one question. Second: Will local authorities be able to apply for funding for several such buildings? I know that the arrears in this area are very large and the municipalities cannot cope with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u67	Mr Rafał Weber still has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u68	Minister! I have a question, perhaps very specific. If not now, if not from the speaker, then maybe during the committee work I will get an answer. I want to ask you about projects that, for example, This year they were made, in the preparation of documentation, i.e. the project, and next year the construction, reconstruction or renovation of such a road will take place in the formula design and build. Will such investments be possible under the Local Roads Fund Act? Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u69	Thank you. Mr Marek Chodkiewicz is again responsible for the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the questions of both Members. Of course, all projects will be able to enter the programme after an appropriate preparatory procedure, following an appropriate validation procedure, so that the projects that have not yet been realized whether it's projects build or design and build. There's no problem with that. I answer the second Member's question: all municipal, district and voivodeship units can participate in the programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u71	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club, is asking a question about the grant from the Fund for Hurted Aid. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We're dealing with an undoubted scandal. Do the people of Warsaw know that the Ministry of Justice and Mr.Patryk have just allocated another million zlotys to the Foundation of Father Rydzyk and to the Higher School of his name in Toruń? Do they know that Patrick What kind of program Rydzyk+ started during the local campaign? Rydzyk in Warsaw - it has not really been there yet and I hope it never will be. The money from the Hurted Aid Fund goes directly from the Ministry of Justice to the account of father Tadeusz Rydzyk, to the Lux Veritatis Foundation. Here's the evidence. Here's a statement from the Ministry of Justice. Results of the call for proposals to entrust the implementation of tasks from the Fund for Hurted Aid. Here is a list on the 25th place of the Lux Veritatis Foundation and on the 18th place of the Higher School of Social and Media Culture in Toruń. It's not a coincidence. That money's going through a wide stream there. The Rydzyk+ programme was launched directly at the Ministry of Justice. I do not know if the Minister is able to confirm this, but I think that probably every Polish resort, every Polish ministry has spent some money on Tadeusz Rydzyk's father. Now the Ministry of Justice is doing it again. Father Tadeusz Rydzyk has not yet received money for space flights, because we do not have such a resort and actually Poles do not fly into space yet. I hope that changes. I have a question, Minister, how could you allow such a scandal? If someone is being wronged, if Father Tadeusz Rydzyk thinks he is being wronged, then perhaps only in the sense that he has been given too little money so far. And let me remind you that over PLN 165 million have been received from the state budget over the last 3 years on the entities associated with Father Tadeusz Rydzyk, and now - with the consent of Patrick Jaki and Minister Ziobra - another million zlotys go to accounts [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tadeusz Rydzyk's father. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u73	Mr Michał Wójcik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, answers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u74	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Mr. District Attorney! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that these pre-election emotions have made a great contribution to the Member. I can see - once again - that fear looks into your eyes... [[Voice from the room: Get to the point, please.]] ...because at the next session of the Sejm I have to answer questions where in the background you name Patrick Jaki. You're gonna lose. Your candidate will lose to Patrick Jake. On the other hand, as far as your questions are concerned, first of all, you asked a question about Radio Maryja. Well, Mr Radio Maryja does not appear on the website of the Ministry of Justice. There's no such information. It is not true that on the pages there is information that Radio Maryja received any funds. If anything, it is the Lux Veritatis Foundation. And now specifically. As far as the Lux Veritatis Foundation is concerned, funds from the Justice Fund have not yet been allocated this year. They're not meant to be. [[How much? How much will it be?]] Please be patient. Please be patient. The Lux Veritatis Foundation applied for a grant in the 5th competition against the causes of crime in the area of information action for the amount of PLN 416 600, it is about information action.Let's be safe, while the Higher School of Social and Media Culture - for the action - you have one life, stop the boosters for the amount of PLN 195 955. As far as this competition is concerned, it is about carrying out actions of an informative and preventive nature. These are extremely important actions, because they aim to protect society from all kinds of crime-related phenomena. This prevention over the years - among others. At the time your group ruled, it was neglected. If you want to ask me in the context of a supplementary question, I will tell you about the specific measures that the Justice Fund provides. In addition to those mentioned in this competition, the honourable Member received about 30 other entities. The total amount of funds allocated to this competition amounted to PLN 10 million, while the applications were submitted for the amount of PLN 6300 thousand. zł. I would like to tell you that all those who have fulfilled the formal and substantive conditions have received a grant. All entities. In the framework of the competitions funded by the Justice Fund, Lux Veritatis received a grant for information campaigns for victims of crimes already before, within the framework of the programmes "On the side of truth" and "Peace of goodwill" - amounts of PLN 180 800 and PLN 460 400. On the other hand, the Higher School of Social and Media Culture in Toruń as part of the project "The impact of media on getting out of crime" was carried out by information campaigns and this was a project worth 145 785 PLN. In 2017, it was only these three grants for information campaigns. As regards the criteria, the criteria are the same for all operators. The formal criterion, i.e. the application by authorised persons on the appropriate form, must be met, then the substantive criteria are assessed. It is about the sustainability of the project, experience, staff resource, material for the necessary tasks, assessment of the adequacy of the costs incurred. As regards the question of the persons responsible for allocating funds from the Justice Fund to each organisation, the evaluation shall be carried out by a committee which shall be appointed by the Minister of Justice and shall consist not of politicians, but of officials. These are people who specialize in these kinds of cases on a daily basis, who deal with the assistance of victims, crime prevention or post-penitentiary aid. I would like to conclude by saying that it is not true that funds are not used to help victims of crime. Within the framework of the Justice Fund, over PLN 25 million were transferred to NGOs to assist the victims in two competitions. In the second contest, all the organizations received the money they requested, and as I said, the pot was not exhausted as far as these funds are concerned. And that's 10 times more than on average in the period before the time when we started the governance of a good change. The amount received by the Lux Veritatis Foundation is not more than 1% at the end of the day. the amount which has been transferred to assist victims of crimes in these competitions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u75	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! That's 1%. Too much, because the businessman from Torun has no experience in helping victims of crime. You said there was a Mr. Jak in the background of this case. Yeah, you're Mr. What, but first of all there's a businessman, your businessman from Torun, a businessman you're very generously subsidizing. There's a meter, and you probably know it, and it's called debt.pl. Do you know why I owe you a debt of gratitude? Because this is your debt of gratitude to a businessman from Torun, a guy named Rydzyk. This counter indicates that from all your ministries already sailed to the businessman from Torun 164 303 528 PLN. Do you know how much money that is? So don't tell me everything's okay. You pay your electoral debts. You pay your electoral debts, your electoral debts are paid by Patrick What do you think? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he's fighting for a good election result. That's the truth... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...about this case. [[Applause]] [[That's disgusting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u77	Mr Michał Wójcik again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u78	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The moment you said those words, I heard the word "disgusting." And that's the truth. It's disgusting and disgusting what you're telling me from that lecturer. I want to tell you that you should have more respect, more humility when you talk about a character like Father Tadeusz Rydzyk. That's the first thing. [[Voice from the room: On your knees.]] [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] That's the first thing. Case number two. You've gone too far, if you're saying that. I'm paying off some of my debts like this. You don't understand what you're saying. First of all, you have fear in your eyes, because Patrick Whatever wins in Warsaw, [[Applause]] And you know it, and second of all... [[That's what you said.]] ...as far as the Justice Fund is concerned, I'd like to ask if you've already filed a notice with the DA against me. 'Cause you did a press conference and you were telling a bunch of crap about the Justice Fund... [[He always talks.]] ...on how resources are distributed from the Justice Fund, among others. For the fire department, right? The fire department in your district got the money, check it out. We don't divide as politicians, we divide officials. But do you know how our power is different from yours? You have not implemented such a program, we have allocated PLN 100 million, directed them to practically all powiats, municipalities in Poland and this money has flowed. You talk so much about great things. I can ask you today, why do you hate firefighters so much? There's 700,000. bridesmaids all over Poland. Why do you hate them? I want you to make a notification. The only thing you're embarrassing yourself with is this lecturer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u79	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. [[Applause]] Ms Anita Czerwińska is asking a question about the implementation of the government's programme. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u80	Thank you very much, Marshal. We have a question for you, Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, on the implementation of the Government's Good Start Program. This program started on July 1st. We know that he is very interested in Polish families and that most of the funds from this programme have already been paid. We have such questions: How did the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy prepare the implementation of the programme? We also ask you to provide data on the number of applications submitted, including online applications, and the benefits paid, especially in the context of the planned amounts. We would also like to ask the Ministry's assessment as to whether the local authorities responsible for the implementation of the government's "Good start" programme have met this task organisationally. There have been voices that time is too short for local governments, especially the time that municipalities have been given to prepare themselves. This may have a negative impact on the timely payment of benefits to families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u81	Mr Józef Leśniak will ask a further part of the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u82	That was all our questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u83	Thank you very much. I would therefore like to ask for an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u84	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer your questions, I would like to say that this time factor was indeed very important here. The time to implement this programme, and I will remind you that this was announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in April this year, was actually relatively short. The implementation of this programme started on 1 July 2018. In fact, on that day, the process of accepting applications for benefits under the "Good start" scheme began. I would like to say that it was possible to start implementing this programme so quickly thanks to the efficiency of government administration and the efficiency of local government. This was largely due to the good experience we have gained from the implementation of previous social programmes. I am referring specifically to the 500+ family programme. The smooth implementation of this programme required good cooperation between government administration and local government. The rapid implementation of the "Good start" programme was also possible thanks to the improvements that were first applied in the implementation of this programme. These improvements consisted, first of all, in the fact that we quickly mobilised the resources needed to implement or cover the implementation costs of the programme by local government units. The first funds went to local government units at the end of June. Secondly, it was also important that we determined the cost necessary to handle a single claim for benefit under the "Good start' scheme. We estimated this cost of PLN 10 per child, but an important issue which also had an impact on the incentive aspect was that in the Council of Ministers regulation, which defined the conditions, the way the programme was implemented, we determined that at least 80% the amount allocated to the costs of implementing the programme should be allocated to remuneration and other benefits for persons directly involved in the implementation of the programme. Other activities include: the development of a special manual for local authorities containing a detailed procedure for the implementation of this programme, a very rapid development of a model application that appeared on the pages of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, in the Public Information Bulletin. It was very important to disseminate the electronic communication channel between applicants and local government units, which were responsible for examining claims for benefits and payment of benefits. I can say today that so far, the proposals under the "Good start" programme have been submitted electronically in 52% cases. If we look at our actions, starting with the start of the program, the family of 500+.It is very clear that the trend towards spreading this from all levels of useful, efficient, fast communication between citizens and local government units can be seen. In the case of the scheme, less than 20% of the total number of applications was submitted by e-mail to the family of 500+. conclusions. Second call is already over 20% applications submitted under this procedure. We are in the middle of the third selection of applications for the a bank channel. In the case of the "Good start" programme, this number is even higher, because as I said, it's over half - 52% Families, 52% parents have submitted [[♪ The bell ♪]] requests by electronic means. Just a little bit more about the statistics.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u85	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u86	More than 3 million applications were submitted by 21 September this year, exactly 3752 thousand. conclusions. We assumed that the number of applications to be submitted would be around 4500 thousand. This number of children was to be included in this programme. As regards the number of benefits already paid, this is the number of 3750 000. As regards the number of benefits granted, 4136 thousand have already been granted. About the amount...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u87	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u88	...the measures that came to the families, this is the sum of PLN 1126 million. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. I've added time for you because the questioners don't ask an additional question. Let's move on to the next question. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz asks a question about the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Poland in connection with the ongoing protest of nurses. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Przemyśl since September 3rd there has been a protest starving nurses. I ask the Minister of Health and Prime Minister Morawiecki: What actions have you taken on this matter? And please don't tell the principals that you've been in touch, that you've been calling, talking. Contacts. What action have you taken on the nurses who are on strike? Today Minister Szumowski, the most absent minister of this government, appears on the radio and disappears. He said he didn't have the authority to take care of the hospital in Przemyśl and the starving nurses. The same minister who had the authority to entrust the entire health system to Our Lady. Something's wrong with the minister. We expect the Prime Minister Morawiecki to make a clear declaration of what this government, the PiS government, is doing about protesting hungry nurses in Przemyśl. I am asking a question to Marshal Kuchciński, who comes from Przemyśl, why he refused to allow the Health Commission to work in Przemyśl, there, with nurses. And finally I ask President Kaczyński what actions he has taken against party activists in Podkarpacie, who manage the voivodship, who cannot solve the problem of the Przemysl hospital, who ignore nurses, photograph empty mattresses and make fun of protesting nurses online. How embarrassing are you? Every minister of health, everyone, has a protest during his work. There was no minister who wouldn't protest. But the problem is how the minister responds to the protest. When the doctors of the Zielona Góra Agreement were on strike, Minister, six days, day and night I negotiated with them to open the clinics, and you keep 30 days of people without food on the floor and you say you have no authority. You're welcome for tomorrow, hours. 13.30, Health Committee, Minister Szumowski. There's a personal invitation to his desk. Tell your boss, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm expecting him tomorrow at hours. 13.30. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u91	Mr Janusz Cieszyński corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u92	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr President, thank you very much for inviting me, of course I will pass it on to the boss. A similar invitation came to the Minister in 2014 from Przemyśl, when the nurses protested there. As I recall, you didn't show up. But that's another thing. [[Hungry? How long did it last? Specifically.]] Also starving, also in Przemyśl, 2014. You were a minister back then. But I'm going back to the answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u93	Mr President, you have already had time to ask a question. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: As you probably know very well, the Law and Justice Government has led to an unprecedented increase in expenditure on the health system. By 2024, it's going to be 6%. GDP - I am glad that this brings you satisfaction - and these measures will go to patients in the first place, because it is for them that this system works. But this system won't work well if they don't go to medical professionals, doctors, nurses. This year, the Ministry of Health held and finalised talks with representatives of all professional groups. Doctors, nurses, paramedics have been made. At the same time, thanks to the Law on Minimum Salaries, which the Sejm recently adopted, it was also possible to raise the salaries of workers performing other professions. Especially important in this context This is an agreement which Minister Szumowski concluded on 9 July with representatives of the trade union of nurses and midwives and the Chief Chamber of Nurses and Obstetricians. It has led to a system of pay for nurses and midwives. As far as these temporary solutions are concerned, introduced in pre-election chaos, which led to 4 times 400 being less than 1000, less than 1000 in the account, changing. The new regulation, expected by the environment, will lead to the end of these situations, that the National Health Fund transfers funds that ultimately do not go to nurses. The agreement provides for a specific allocation of appropriations from the NFZ by indicating the amount by which basic salaries will increase. Since September 1st this year it's been... [[What actions did you undertake in the case of nurses, I asked.]] Thank you for reminding me. As I said, since 1 September this year it will be 1100 PLN raise to basic salary. From 1 July next year it will be 1,200 PLN. No nurse or midwife in Poland will have to wonder how much it really is 4 times 400 according to your maths. On the other hand, support for nursing is not only providing stable wages, but also systemic solutions that will lead to the filling of this generation gap, which is in this system and which has not been created at any time, as in the state of government. As part of our nursing strategy, we are preparing concrete solutions to fill this gap. We invest in education. Within the framework of the PO WER programme, 90 million PLN was transferred to universities in Podkarpackie Voivodeship for training of nurses, scholarships and graduate internships, where nurses who enter the profession receive a supplement to the salary. [[About the starving nurses...]] We are also pursuing the request to guarantee paid training leave so that every nurse and midwife has the chance to develop their professional competences. The beneficiary of all these activities, whose primary aim is to support nursing throughout Poland, is also the Provincial Hospital im. St. Father Pio in Przemyśl, who received almost PLN 50 million more in the contract with the National Health Fund in comparison with 2015. [[And that's why the nurses are starving, and the principal...]] Mr President, please do not disturb the Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: The hospital administration and the voivodship board are in constant dialogue with the nurses... [[I saw it.]] ...are in contact with the Ministry of Health and the Minister of Health provides all the support that the management and management are asking for. [[Through Our Lady or some recipes?]] Mr President, you had your time and you took advantage of it. Please don't disturb me. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Allow me not to refer to it at the very least. Minister, don't answer the Members' questions. This isn't a committee. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: As I said, the Ministry of Health deals with changes in the system, which lead to the stabilisation of the nursing situation in Poland, that there are stable salaries, that there is a plan for the future, that there is support for education, that there is support for nurses not to leave Poland. [[It's thick.]] These are activities that concern all nurses and midwives in Poland, including those who work in the hospital in Przemyśl. We hope that this protest will soon be over and that this dialogue that is continuing will lead to constructive solutions. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. High Seym! Welcome to the gallery of high school students from the School of General Education No. 3 in. John Paul II in Ruda Śląska with the guardian Anna Rzepka. We cordially greet you. [[Applause]] Mr Marek Rząsa, the Civic Platform Club, will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u94	Thank you. Minister! I don't think you understood our question completely because you didn't answer any of the questions that were written to you. All smooth words, all clichés, no specifics. That's what nurses hear every day. Do you think that a nurse - a woman, a wife, a mother, a daughter, a grandmother - would decide on the harshest form of protest, what is hunger, without giving a reason? Do you know what these ladies will have in return? They're lied to every day, ridiculed, insulted. PiS-owski Marshal of the Voivodship Allows himself to mock social media with dramatic protests. The life of the inhabitants of Przemyśl and its surroundings is at stake. That's about 170,000. People and one hospital working in the E.R. Do you know the password: Will we listen to Poles? In this case, the Marshal of the Sejm, the thoughtless, silent thought: Madam Vice-Vote, Mr. Member of the Board [[♪ The bell ♪]] Podkarpackie Voivodeship. As a thoughtful man, I will not be silent and expect concrete actions, not smooth words.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cieszyński again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u96	Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for these questions, but I would also like to point out that what you are saying, building such an atmosphere of danger, saying that the health of the inhabitants of Przemyśl is at risk, is a very irresponsible attitude. The Ministry of Health, as part of the monitoring of the health system in Poland, ensures that there is full protection in case of the need to ensure the health protection of inhabitants of Przemyśl. So, please don't mislead the public so you don't mix the health system with politics so you don't behave irresponsiblely, just... [[Please don't judge the Members. Answer the question.]] [[What do you think of the emergency room in the hospital? How do you assess the connection between pediatric surgery and pediatric surgery and dermatology?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u97	You've already asked the question. Don't bother the Minister. [[Tell me.]] Mr President, I would like to draw your attention for the first time. [[Child surgery and pediatrics.]] Mr... Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: As part of the national security system, we are in constant contact with the voivode, we are in constant contact with the marshal. We are sure that the health needs of the inhabitants of Przemyśl and surrounding areas are secure. So that I would very much ask you not to give such misinformation. As far as the ministry is concerned, as I said, we have secured the situation in Przemyśl and its surroundings. We are in contact with the voivodeship, we are in contact with the marshal, so that we are sure that what is most important, i.e. the health of the inhabitants of Przemyśl and surroundings, is safe. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Maciej Małecki asks a question about the redemption in 2010 for Gazprom of a large amount, in dollars, for the transfer of Russian gas through Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u98	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The negotiations conducted in 2009 and 2010 by the government of Donald Tusk with the Russians resulted in the redemption by the government of Donald Tusk of a huge amount of $ 286 327 041 in favour of Gazprom for the transmission of Russian gas through Poland in 2006 and 2009. More simply, Donald Tusk and his administration gave Vladimir Putin PLN 1 billion. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, for which I thank the Minister of Energy Krzysztof Tchórzewski very warmly for decryption, makes it clear that EuRoPol Gaz was politically forced to redeem PLN 1 billion for Gazprom Vladimir Putin. Previously, the presidents were suspended from this company, who did not agree to cancel this 1 billion PLN. Only after their suspension, EuRoPol Gas remitted PLN 1 billion in the case of Gazprom. The presidents in the letter alarmed the government of Donald Tusk that the mother company, which was exerting pressure, PGNiG forces them to redeem this amount. Even the amount that EuRoPol Gaz won as a result of the judgment of the arbitration tribunal in Moscow from Gazprom was reduced. Even that's what the company resigned later. Minister! What action is being taken by the Ministry of Energy following the release of the report in order to hold people from the administration of Donald Tusk, the government of the Platform and PSL who led to the donation of PLN 1 billion to Vladimir Putin? What amount did Poland lose, counting to this day, not only in the case of this decommitted 1 billion, but also in the case that the negotiators at that time agreed to grossly reduce the profits of EuRoPol Gas for the Russian gas transmission through Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Minister of Energy, replies. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The shape of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Russia for the supply of Russian gas to Poland signed in 2010 is the responsibility of the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. The main negotiator from Poland was Deputy Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak. The consequences of the Eastern gas supply contracts signed in 2010 are still felt today. Fortunately, thanks to these actions and by declassifying the NIK report, the Ministry of Energy and the government's representative for strategic energy infrastructure Piotr Naimski reduces the negative effects on the economy resulting from these adverse agreements. This is confirmed by the Supreme Audit Chamber's conclusions from the Supreme Audit Chamber's 20112013 in-depth review of the whole package of issues related to these negotiations. From this declassified document, part of the Supreme Audit Chamber's document shows that there was no due diligence in negotiating activities. This is confirmed by the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber. In the opinion of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the effectiveness of the negotiations was limited due to the lack of alternative to the direction of Russian connections with other countries. However, Poland remained under strong pressure from Gazprom, subject to this pressure without clear grounds and reasons. Nevertheless, the government of Poland, the government of the Civic Platform and PSL, did not use the arguments held by Poland. Nor did he take advantage of the possibility of involving representatives of the European Commission in negotiations at their initial stage and other stages. According to the documents of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the outcome of the negotiations was influenced by the lack of adequate preparation of the substantive negotiators and the lack of proper communication and cooperation between the parties involved in the negotiations, i.e. between the Ministry of Economy and the Polish Oil Mining and Gas Industry Company, where there was a completely different approach to these negotiations. They agreed to benefit Russia, for Gazprom's concession, without receiving anything in return. No discussion was even made on the reduction in gas prices despite an increase in the volume of gas purchases from Russia. The decision-making of EuRoPol Gas was blocked without any equivalent in return. It should be recalled that the 2003 agreement showed that the EuRoPol Gas function was decisive. The President of EuRoPol Gazu had a decisive vote in the joint Board of EuRoPol Gas and PGNiG. It was simply abandoned, agreeing that Poland had practically nothing to say. The tiring negligence of the negotiating ministers was the resignation of the remuneration for the transport services carried out in the period 2006 to 2009, which cost almost PLN 1 billion. In this case, it seems, and will, and political courage to talk to the Russians with their foreheads up and without complexes. We were already a sovereign state, we were a state operating within the European Union in 2010. We could invite the representatives of the Union to support us in our situation, but we behaved as a subordinate state in these negotiations. I believe that the fact that all the documents of the Supreme Chamber of Control related to the control of these negotiations have been declassified... The efforts to declassify it lasted almost a year, and the public opinion could therefore be familiar with the details of the negotiations of the 2010 contract. The negotiations that were conducted from the beginning were too soft for Gazprom. In fact, practically, the negotiators fulfilled all expectations. For this reason, proceedings by the District Prosecutor's Office in Piotrków Trybunalski are conducted on the basis of the protocol of the Supreme Audit Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u101	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Marshal Beata Mazurek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! All those who have led to the gift of PLN 1 billion to Putin and the damage to the State Treasury should suffer the consequences, regardless of whether we are talking about them as VAT criminals, fuel criminals or gas criminals. I therefore request that the Minister carry out a corporate audit at PGNiG SA which will explain all the circumstances of the gift to Putin of PLN 1 billion. I also ask whether the Minister will instruct the Supervisory Board to review the decisions of PGNiG and EuRoPol Gaz in 2009 and 2010 in this respect, unless this audit has already been carried out and we know what the results of this decision are, the results of this audit. If so, I would like the Minister to explain it to us now and tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski again responds to the Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u104	I would like to explain that at that time Poland actually resigned from PLN 1 billion, which belonged to Poland for the remuneration for transmission services for the years 2006 to 2009. If we also refer to the concessions made under this additional agreement of 2010, it can be estimated that Poland, agreeing to the profit of EuRoPol Gaz no more than PLN 21 million, lost in this agreement - that is respect - approx. PLN 2.2.5 billion of additional payment for transport, which would otherwise have been due to us. As a result of declassifying all documents related to the control proceedings of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the District Prosecutor's Office in Piotrków Trybunalski opened proceedings on the suspicion of a crime of excess of powers, failure of public officers to fulfil their duties. The Ministry of Energy fully cooperates with the collection authorities in this respect and provides all documents expected by the prosecutor's office. I would also like to stress that the Government of Law and Justice has now put on strong measures aimed at diversifying gas supplies to Poland and guarantees an assertive policy towards our partners, including on energy issues. The foundation of our action is to protect the interests of our country and we do not bow to any threats of political blackmail, taking care of the finances of our citizens. It should be added that these negotiations have also been extended from gas supply transactions to transport issues. For this reason, not even the slightest concession from Russia was properly obtained in terms of the arguments which the Russian party had made since the beginning. On the one hand, I think that the prosecutor's office controls everything very closely, every stage of the procedure, but to make matters clearer, I accept this as a parliamentary request and ask the supervisory board to carry out a corporate review as requested by the Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u105	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Barbara Dziuk, Member of Law and Justice, will ask a question about the additional financing of impact troops by the Ministry of Health. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the press reports, the Ministry recently decided on additional funding for the stroke benefit. This was the case, among other things. in the county hospital in Tarnowskie Góry, where on 1 October agreements were signed between the Silesian branch of the NFZ and the director of this hospital. For the past two years, contracts for this type of treatment have been urgently sought because there have been white spots in this type of treatment in Poland as well as elsewhere. And therefore I have a question to the Minister: What are the amounts, how they look quantitatively or what a comprehensive program is prepared throughout Poland, because statistics on stroke cases in Poland clearly show that there are between 60 and 70,000. stroke cases and about 30,000. the deaths caused by this disease? Minister, this is now a very important direction of support, especially since medicine has gone very far and thanks to the achievements we have, we can really solve health problems on many issues. And as far as I'm concerned, the Ministry of Health's work on these issues is very intense. I'm asking for information on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u107	Thank you very much. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u108	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Thank you very much for this question, because the treatment of strokes is indeed one of the priorities of the Ministry of Health and this is an area where time and the use of state-of-the-art technologies in the treatment of this type of disease play a major role. Mechanical Trombectomy guarantees even twice the effectiveness of existing therapies. Therefore, the Ministry of Health is examining the draft pilot scheme regulation, which will enter into force on 1 December 2018, and which will last for 2 years. This programme will allocate at least PLN 100 million to finance treatment with this method - mechanical Trombectomy. This piloting is intended to carefully examine the effectiveness of this method before the final decision to include it in the basket of guaranteed benefits. It is worth saying that this is a procedure that is positively assessed by a national consultant in the field of neurology. Therefore, we are implementing this pilot programme and in at least seven centres throughout Poland, in many regions of the country, including among others in Silesia, this piloting will be carried out. Our goal is first of all to examine the effectiveness carefully, because we have promising signals about the fact that it is very high, but we want to examine it carefully and then evaluate it so that we can develop precise criteria for qualification for this procedure, so that we can allocate money as efficiently as possible in these extremely difficult situations for patients. So, to sum up, it's December 1st that we're gonna start piloting. This flight will take two years. Within this framework, at least PLN 100 million will be transferred from the National Health Fund on the basis of this statutory mandate to carry out pilotage. In our view, if everything is done as intended, if the results of this pilotage are as expected, it will be possible to include this in the basket of guaranteed benefits. Thank you very much. [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u109	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We continue to consider this point of order. I ask again for an additional question from Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this comprehensive analysis of the subject, for the substantive approach and the perception of social problems, but also for this, I have a question about anti-traumatic prevention. Did the Ministry of Health also take action on these issues, or does it see any partners here in the early diagnosis, preventing these issues later related to the difficult consequences of this event in the patient? I would also like to get information here about the judgments in the Social Security Office, because statistics also make it very clear how high the benefits are in relation to those incurred. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the consequences of stroke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u111	I ask you, Minister, to answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u112	Thank you so much for that question. As regards the exact statistics of the Social Insurance Institution, I undertake to give a thorough written reply. On the other hand, as you have rightly pointed out, these trombectomies allow you to return to work and restore you to a normal life. Therefore, in an economic analysis of the reasonableness of their implementation, this aspect must also be taken into account that a patient who can be saved will be able to return to work, will not be sentenced to support social benefits, but will be able to live, function, pay taxes and live the life he led before a stroke. On the other hand, as regards preventive measures, the Ministry of Health in the framework of the National Health Programme (National Health Programme) allocates about PLN 80 million to prevention this year. And within this framework, a healthy lifestyle is promoted and, in fact, counteracting the circumstances that lead to these strokes. It's hard to talk about strict prevention. against strokes, because they are very difficult to predict. Healthy lifestyles, healthy nutrition, on the other hand, are factors that limit the risk of stroke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u113	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next, 11th question at this point. They will be asked by Mrs Gabriela Masłowska and Marshal Beata Mazurek in the order I have read. The question is about the embezzlement of EU funds for investments in agricultural producer groups under the PO-PSL regime and ongoing prosecution proceedings. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development and will be answered by Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski and the first Deputy Prosecutor General of the National Prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u114	Minister! Between 2009 and 2015 approx. 9 billion PLN of EU funds were allocated to the creation and operation of producer groups, of which Poland received as much as 8 billion PLN. Despite the fact that there were significant irregularities in the use of these funds as early as 2010 after the European Union's audit, this continued. The Marshals' offices and the restructuring agency subordinate to the former Minister for Agriculture were responsible for the verification, evaluation of applications and decision-making. This procedure consisted of the payment of funds unlawfully and economic justification, e.g. funds were paid for investments which were not, the cost of the investment was increased, machinery and equipment were also purchased at prices significantly, sometimes several dozen times higher, which differed from market prices, or members of the group sold similar equipment to the group also for excessive amounts. These and other irregularities have exposed Poland to enormous consequences. I have questions: Is the current government, on which the burden of talks with the European Union falls, to reduce the sanctions that have encountered Poland effectively solves these problems related to sanctions that Poland has imposed? What about farmers who have sometimes been unwittingly involved in this process, because when EU funds were distributed, they also built elites, political facilities? How much do we have to pay? Has the current government succeeded in reducing these sanctions, dissuading them and somehow saving the honour of Polish farmers in the eyes of the entire European Union? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are Polish law enforcement authorities investigating people responsible for this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u115	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! EU aid, approx. PLN 8 billion, which went to Polish fruit and vegetables groups, could indeed be a great help in improving the weak position of fruit and vegetable producers on the market. Unfortunately, what happened is more scandal than aid for Polish agriculture. I ask you, the European Union's auditors, the European Court of Auditors and the European Commission, giving very precise, concrete examples of embezzlement and pathological actions, have challenged a large part of this amount of PLN 7954 million and Poland has already had to pay PLN 1200 million. Shame! The money that was necessary for Polish agriculture, especially for those in the dramatic situation of fruit and vegetable groups, had to be given back. What's been found? Weaknesses in compliance with eligibility criteria, creation of artificial groups. The correctness of the implementation of the technical infrastructure investigation plans for machinery and equipment at the disposal of the members has not been verified. The reasonableness of investment costs has not been verified, particularly when purchasing from members of the group. Ladies and gentlemen, commercial cohesion and the technical quality of the investigation plans have not been checked. It's too long a payback. Imagine that in the case of 14 investigation plans, the average investigation time was 40 years - I don't know who would have lived to see this - and in the extreme case 307 years. It's about investigating a group of plans. Purchases of land, buildings, used machinery, equipment that took place between the group and its members or related entities. The surveillance carried out by the Marshal's offices to which it was entrusted was illusory and therefore 31 investigations were initiated in connection with 81 administrative cases, especially in the Mazowieckie and Kujawsko-Pomorskie branches. Signals from the European Commission's audit bodies were already in place in 2010 and 2011. Practically no action has been taken. Examples can be multiplied. Especially the Lublin Marshal's office showed absolute carelessness. Those unauthorized people signed contracts, now they don't know who to chase. Twice, decisions were made on the same case. And already a kuriozum - in Pomorskie voivodship 79 million were spent on reimbursement of costs for an investment that was never created, which was not there. After all this, ladies and gentlemen, Poland remained a shame. Relations with the European Commission have now improved as a result of corrective action taken by the Ministry of Agriculture. Perhaps the amounts for some sanctions that are awaiting payment will be reduced, but unfortunately the shame remains. I asked and I ask the national prosecutor, Mr Bogdan Święczkowski, to present the state of the investigation, because whatever the shame and relationship with the European Commission, what happened must be burned with hot iron. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u117	I'm glad you're helping me, Minister, but you're gonna allow the marshal to hold the meeting. The remaining part of the time at this point will take your statement from the national prosecutor Bogdan Święczkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u118	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Public prosecutors, public prosecutors' offices, through close cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as ARiMR, conduct a number of preparatory proceedings, investigations related to the introduction or attempt to bring the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture to an unfavourable regulation by means of public funds from the European Union for investments in producer groups in 2007 and 2015. A total of 17 preparatory proceedings are conducted. The total amount of funding for these proceedings is over PLN 2100 million, of which criminal proceedings, i.e. extortion, cover almost PLN 600 million. The procedure covers 20 groups of operators, 20 groups of fruit and vegetables producers. I'm not going to mention here the names of those entities that are the subject of an investigation. These investigations are conducted in the District Attorney's Office and the Regional Attorney's Office. As of today, ladies and gentlemen, the charges in four investigations have been brought to a total of 60 people. The object of the charges was almost PLN 400 million, and all four proceedings together concern grants for PLN 1480 million. As the Minister mentioned here, the proceedings concern groups of fruit and vegetable producers. During the proceedings the heaviest modus operandi was established. The condition for receiving the funding was that the local marshal of the voivodship should decide on the preliminary recognition of producers as a group of fruit and vegetables producers. Certain conditions had to be met for such decisions, namely the submission of a 5-year investigation plan to recognise membership of the producer and fruit group. The group, which wanted to be considered as such a group of fruit and vegetable producers, had to indicate in the submitted plan what investments it intends to make in the form of purchasing machinery, real estate or infrastructure elements, and carry out these investments. These documents provided false data related to the group's investment plans and its financial, production and technology capabilities. These plans were to be subject to regular checks. These checks were to be carried out by marshals' offices. In the course of the investigation, it was found that these checks were often superficial. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The proceedings to clarify whether or not the auditors were misled, or were deliberately involved, are also ongoing in these investigations. Ladies and gentlemen! The prosecution will continue its proceedings. He cooperates closely with the relevant ARiMR bodies and the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the Central Anti-corruption Office, and in any event takes investigative action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u119	Thank you. An additional question is asked by Marshal Beata Mazurek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u120	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have this question: does the Ministry of Agriculture have any proposals regarding the use of assets of fallen or declining producer groups so as not to be taken over by foreign companies, for example? On the basis of which ARMIR assessed the appropriateness of construction investments, since they could be implemented by producer groups without standard documentation, e.g. construction or investment costs? Next question: Why was the Marshal's office under supervision and verification of producer groups of fruit and vegetables, over which the Minister of Agriculture had no control, and in December 2015 the Agricultural Market Agency took over supervision only for 20 months? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u121	Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski answers this question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What happened is an authentic scandal. The investigations that are being conducted are about the recovery of PLN 1.5 billion, showing the scale of pathology in this mechanism. It is necessary to determine precisely where unconscious farmers have been involved in the mechanism for extortion of money, and where group representatives have taken part, knowing that it is a criminal activity, a conscious participation. It is also necessary to determine who those who supervised this were, to identify these marshal offices. I would like to remind you that in Poland, politicians of the Polish People's Party are responsible for agricultural issues in marshal offices. This is also the responsibility of the restructuring agency, which at that time was managed by politicians of the Polish People's Party. But even this agency paid attention to the Marshal's offices to the lack of supervision of the huge amounts of money spent. It is essential for me at the moment to determine the guilt of this state of affairs, which has affected Poland in Europe, among European farmers, and in Brussels with a very negative echo, because there is a belief that Polish farmers are thieves, because so much money has come out and they have not strengthened Polish agriculture. The problems we have at the moment in the fruit and vegetables market are among others. because of how this money was spent. On the other hand, these groups, which cannot survive on this market, cannot remain, these built objects cannot remain without the host, and even more so cannot be placed in the hands of the western competition. Therefore, the mechanism is being prepared at the moment with the help of the National Agricultural Support Centre, and a food holding is also planned, so that this property, which is intended to serve Polish farmers, because this was the purpose of spending this money, was taken over to the Treasury's stock to serve Polish farmers from the next growing season, the commercial season. That, again, was the purpose of spending that money. I will try to ensure that all the objects that will appear in connection with this mechanism of falling groups, the more that some groups have been created artificially just to take over EU money, not to carry out any commercial activity to help farmers... The greater is the responsibility of those who have led to this, who inspire, politically inspire farmers in producer groups to use this money easily. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to punish not the sword, but the hand that held the sword. This political responsibility, I'm sure, will be settled. A to the National Public Prosecutor's Office - request to speed up the work related to the explanation of all these pathological [[♪ The bell ♪]] the situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u123	The question asked by you, Marshal Beata Mazurek, concludes the examination of this item. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the state of use of European Union funds in voivodships and the risks involved, which the Parliamentary Club Legal and Justice brought about, will be discussed at this meeting of the Sejm. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Łukasz Schreiber's applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the initiative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice we are to talk today about the state of use of European Union funds in voivodships and the risks involved. This is a very important topic, but before I mention the details, I would like us to go back 8 years and recall the words of the then Prime Minister, then the leader of the governing party, who said to Poles of thousands of posters: Let us not make politics, build bridges, build roads, build schools, etc. Aside from the absurdity of this statement, because it's all politics, let's see what it looks like. [[For you, yes, especially in Radom.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we have heard a very worrying thing - we have heard about the threatened EU funds at national level, which exceed EUR 1 billion, about the working guillotine n+3, about the threatened resources from the implementation reserve. And it is not a coincidence, of course, that the applicants for this project are Members from Bydgoszcz and Włocławka. But it is really the voice of the inhabitants of Bydgoszcz, Włocławka, Torun, Grudziądz, Inowroclaw, Vulture, Tucholi, Rypina, Nakła etc. Why is that? Because it is in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, according to the data presented, that is the worst, because the execution reserve is to be 100% threatened, because almost 180 million are to be threatened. Unfortunately, not only in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. There are also others: Lubelskie - almost 80 million euro, Łódź - 98, Małopolskie - 127, Podlaskie - 106, Śląskie - 169, Świętokrzyskie - 88, Warmia-Mazurskie - 97. Unfortunately, High Izbo, once during this term, we had to deal with the government's need to save the funds at risk. At the time it was cohesion policy funds for the 20072013 perspective. If the recovery plan had not been implemented at the beginning of December 2015, it might have been difficult to settle with the European Commission. At that time, 40 billion PLN remained. How would it end? We don't know. Fortunately, it ended well thanks to the government and thanks to the Ministry of Development. [[You gotta be kidding me.]] But, High Izbo, what we know today, is that more than PLN 200 billion is in investment already in the current perspective, and, of course, asks a question in connection with these worrying data, asks the Minister: How do regional programmes fit into national programmes? That is the question to which honesty requires that the Poles hear it. How are the regional programmes from the 2007 to 2013 perspective to the current 2014 and 2020 perspective in a comparable period? Has there been a regression or progress? Are these fears right or wrong? High Izbo! In the media, unfortunately not only in one voivodship, although in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship it may have a unique dimension, the whole September is a rather impertinent promotional campaign. It is a promotional campaign for local media marshals, which, I understand, is intended to serve the upcoming local elections - studies with photographs, multi-pages, week after week. That's how it's done. One could say: not so much politics as policymaking in the worst edition is doing the best possible, for public money, of course, because it is worth highlighting. [[Voice from the room: Who's saying this?]] But there are problems, as we can see, with this building, with the use of EU funds. But maybe we can hear from the Minister that it is the public address of the nationwide issue, the publicity of the case in the media, the publicity of the case in local local governments that has had some effect, maybe there is some improvement. We'd all want that, too. Because what I am convinced is that people are really discouraged from politics, from self-government, from Members and from everyone else, is when they deal with some inability when they hear that the measures that are on the table are at risk. I think this discussion is needed today - it is needed to save these resources, and it is needed [[♪ The bell ♪]] To make it public again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u125	Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr Adam Hamryszczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u126	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Investment and Development systematically reviews all operational programmes to eliminate bottlenecks at an early stage and minimise the risks associated with the loss of EU funds by our country. Analyses show that in terms of the progress of the programmes - I mean both the contracting of funds and payments to beneficiaries and the request for reimbursement to the European Commission - we are far less successful in regional programmes than in programmes managed directly by the Ministry of Investment and Development. [[Oh, my God, heresy.]] The average level of use of funds - now I am talking about contracting - for national programmes it was 67% at the end of September. available resources, while for regional operational programmes it was 59%. [[Horrible.]] A large difference is also noted in the application to the European Commission for a refund. For national programmes, this represents 22% allocation and regional operational programmes - only 15%. The progress of some regional operational programmes is so worrying that even the European Commission has covered some of them - I mean Lubelskie, Świętokrzyskie, Podlaskie and Warmia-Mazurskie - special supervision with special expert support. Weaker results in regional operational programmes represent a real threat to our country's loss of funds as a result of the so-called "use." rules n+3. At present, this threat concerns regional programmes. For national programmes, the situation is satisfactory. It welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Investment and Development's actions aimed at mobilising regions for more efficient and more efficient spending of money under regional operational programmes and the rescue of threatened funds estimated at the end of August at more than EUR 1 billion are delivering results. Unfortunately, there are still regions where there are real risks associated with the loss of the funds I mentioned. Taking into account the application of rule n+3, according to data on 30 September this year. for regional operational programmes, the amount of €108 million is still at stake. This situation concerns five voivodships: Podlasie Voivodship - EUR 34 million, Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodship - EUR 29 million, Świętokrzyskie Voivodship - EUR 22 million, as well as Śląskie Voivodship - EUR 13 million and Lesser Poland - nearly EUR 10 million. On the other hand, with regard to the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, I would like to stress that following the intervention of the Minister for Development of Mr Jerzy Kwieciński, the data as at 30 September indicate that the risk of losing funds under rule n+3 has been eliminated, but this is one of the lowest regions in terms of regional operational programmes, contracting levels - only 51% of the available allocation resources, and one of the lowest levels of request for a refund to the European Commission - only 14%. These levels are much lower than the average for all programmes and the average for regional operational programmes, and it is therefore necessary to step up management activities and improve the implementation of this programme. Analysis of the implementation framework of the regional operational programme at the end of the second quarter of this year indicated that more than EUR 1 billion was at stake. However, in the case of the Regional Operational Programme of Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, this was unfortunately the entire amount of the performance reserve, i.e. over EUR 114 million. The Ministry expects that in the near future we will learn directly from the detailed reports from the individual managing authorities what it looks like in detail. The main factors which, according to the opinion of the Ministry of Investment and Development, have affected delays in the implementation of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie RPO are the following: too late the mobilisation of funds for activities in certain thematic areas, such as ICT, too late the adoption of project selection criteria, which has consequently delayed the publication of competitions, and potential beneficiaries have therefore not had a chance to get familiar with the conditions for individual calls sufficiently early. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to minimise possible delays, the Ministry of Investment and Development as an institution for coordinating the implementation of the Partnership Agreement for 16 regional operational programmes shall undertake a number of actions to support both the programme and the implementation institutions of regional operational programmes. It belongs to them, among others. the obligation of RPO managing authorities to prepare corrective plans to reduce delays in meeting the targets set out in the 2018 programmes under the implementation framework mechanism. The implementation of these objectives will give rise to the allocation of implementation reserve measures, i.e. the currently frozen part of the allocation for the programme, which represents 6% in 2019. allocation for each programme. It is worth noting that the experts of the Ministry of Investment and Development took an active part in the process of renegotiating regional operational programmes and agreed with the European Commission in particular on horizontal issues, but also on individual programmes. In addition, of course, to align the programmes with the Responsible Development Strategy, the objective of changing regional operational programmes was to minimise the implementation risks associated with the delay in the use of European funds or the risk of their full use. In the process of renegotiating, the European Commission has been able to agree on solutions that are beneficial for the regions, among others. allow financing of project documentation for railway investments. The RPO of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship also carried out an extremely important relocation of funds. These actions have allowed for the redirection of measures from axes where implementation problems have been identified to axes of greater interest to potential beneficiaries. During the renegotiation of operational programmes, the values of the performance framework indicators were adjusted in justified cases. The correction of the target values of the meters established as milestones for 2018 is not the only facilitation. In addition, there has been liberalisation of the rules for the clearance of performance targets, which was introduced by the European Commission and promoted by the Ministry of Investment and Development. In line with the new rules, the basis for determining the value of the output indicator for the performance framework should be the data provided by the beneficiaries in the final payment applications. It has also been made possible to emphasise that the managing authority has taken into account data from indirect payment applications, provided that it can be confirmed that the project to achieve the products has been fully implemented. Of course, in addition to horizontal actions, the Ministry of Investment and Development also conducts a number of initiatives aimed directly at the beneficiaries of European funds, including, among others. State aid training for R &amp; D activities for representatives of scientific bodies planning or involved in projects co-financed by the Structural Funds. It is also worth noting here that the Ministry of Investment and Development also coordinates the European Commission's initiative for developing regions called Catching-up Regions. The Kujawsko-Pomorskie region is involved in the third edition of the initiative, where World Bank experts focus on the analysis of the area of aid for seniors in Grudziądz and entrepreneurship in Włocławek. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u127	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of your fellow Members like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I'm opening a discussion. We begin with Anna Cicholska's speech, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u128	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In view of the risks related to the non-use of the EU envelope available for Poland for the period 2007 to 2013 by the Council of Ministers, a recovery programme has been developed within a few days. Ladies and gentlemen, about PLN 40 billion remained to settle with the European Commission at that time. It was an amount comparable to the government deficit or government expenditure on defence or education. Minister! For this reason, I have to ask you: What actions were possible thanks to the swift reaction of the Law and Justice Government in implementing the recovery plan with regard to the European Union funds? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u129	Another speech, Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I thank Mr Schreiber for his disarming honesty. The road to the PiS is politics. Mr President, we know that it is not just politics for you, especially the S12, but the interest of life for some of your colleagues. [[Applause]] [[Sausage for your own.]] You're talking about politics. Patrick, win, we'll build the third and fourth subway lines. Who said that? Minister Kwieciński, who chickened out and isn't in the Sejm today. It's not politics, it's political corruption. [[Applause]] [[You should have adapted to your rhetoric.]] Mrs. Marshal! I would like to welcome the Marshals of the voivodships who came to the Sejm from all over Poland today to the debate of the subcommittee to monitor the use of EU funds, where Minister Kwieciński was to explain his lies. [[Applause]] But he chickened out because he's afraid to look these people in the eye. He's not in the Parliament or in room 118, where we're about to debate at the subcommittee meeting. Minister Kwieciński! You lie when you talk about the fact that local governments cannot invest EU funds, just as you lied about Poland in ruins, Smolensk, about the fact that there are no roads and bridges. I ask on behalf of the marshals: Why did you get involved in the filthy campaign of Prime Minister Morawiecki? Why didn't you send a list of endangered projects to the Sejm until today and impose an embargo on your officials? This is the first time I've ever had a chance to not get the material as chairman of the subcommittee. I'm asking you, where's the list of endangered projects? [[Applause]] I'll tell you where. That's just not the list. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] If projects are at risk, then yours is - Polish digital, Smart development. The Marshals don't have any projects at risk. You said yesterday that in the case of the Silesian voivodship 160 million were at risk. It's only ten today. You're crawling with your own lies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can you not be ashamed to report to the European Commission that they are not carrying out projects in voivodships? Shame on you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u131	Of course, I also welcome the present marshals. [[The Euro-Messenger, yet the Euro-Messenger is.]] About you being here, I haven't had any information before. Thanks to what Mrs Isabella Leszczyna has said, we already have this information. Mr President, please speak as another speaker. Mr Marek Owa, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Jan Olbrycht, former Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship, is still with us. [[Yeah, I'm sorry.]] The first thing is: the country with the funds for the period 2007 and 2013 had nothing in common and you did not help in clearing. Minister Hamryszczak perhaps should know that the contracts have not been concluded and have not been closed. only because to make 100% European funds have been cleared. We kept them open until the end of 2015 so that transfers could be made. If anyone had any idea, they wouldn't be embarrassing themselves here, but you have no idea. [[Applause]] And that's why you're saying all the stupid things from this speaker that somebody just gave you. Get ready, learn a little bit, and then... [[Applause]] You're really insulting... you're lowering this House's intellectual level, and that doesn't work - it doesn't serve you either. Another point I would like to make very clear about. As I see these tables that the Ministry is doing, I must tell you that this is unbelievable. For national programmes, the scale is 25%, for regional programmes 60%. Why are you doing this? You want it to grow like this and it's flat? Well, you know, when the scale goes down, it's just that these curves go out differently. [[Applause]] [[Something extraordinary.]] This is pure manipulation. You've all been based on a lie. The only message that dominates you is a lie. Sometimes, if you're wrong, you'll tell the truth. Don't do it because it really doesn't work. I would like to ask the Minister whether, in these reports, which he has to provide to the European Commission on a quarterly basis, he has notified the European Commission of the alleged billion of funds at risk. Well, you didn't tell the minister because there's no such threat. And one more thing, very important. I'd like you to [[♪ The bell ♪]] the state in the government has agreed among themselves, as it is with the European funds in Poland. Yesterday, in the European Union Commission, Minister Szymański says: we are the leader in the use of European funds, nothing is at risk. [[Joy in the Chamber]] One Member of the PiS talks about a billion, the minister talks about 100 billion. Think about it, folks, because the truth is, money isn't at stake. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[They get the old millions wrong about the new ones.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u133	Another speech, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Marshals at the gallery! We welcome you very warmly, well that you have come to listen to this lie, these slanders that have been spread for a long time. It is no coincidence that we find out here today that we have to show the public what is happening in voivodships. It's about politics, you want to politicize, you don't want to think about how aid is being used. An example? There you go - the minister did not come to Marshall Sosnowski, to his office, did not ask how to help, but did an election meeting under the windows of Marshal Sosnowski. There's Marshal Sosnowski. Mr. Marshal, was that it? That's what happened. What was that supposed to do? [[Applause]] Better use of funds? Look at how money is used where it is supervised by the Ministry. This is the worst use of all possible, e.g. Polish digital, and you are politically clinging because there are choices. You didn't negotiate these measures because it was the predecessors, the voivodships themselves settled in Brussels, and here you are doing politics and reporting to Brussels. You can't do that, Minister, you can't do that, Prime Minister, you can't do that. Stand on the side of the marshals, help them, don't hurt them. [[We're helping right now.]] Yeah, you help, you help with that kind of slander. This is your help, [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] That's it. You've always helped and helped. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We want it to be okay.]] [[You're a Gomelka-style propagandist.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u135	Mr Ryszard Galla, non-attached Member. You're welcome. It's gonna be another performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Europosal Olbrycht! My friends, my fellow Marshals! Minister! High Izbo! Reading into today's work schedule for the Sejm, I thought this would be a substantive discussion, but, excuse me, after Mr Schreiber's speech, I am 100% convinced that this is only information for the use of the local government campaign. It is a pity, sir, that you are using [[Applause]] here local governments to discredit the achievements of local governments, and there are also your people. That's too bad. I would like to say two sentences here as former Deputy Marshal of the Opolskie Voivodship responsible for EU funds. This morning I called my office and asked: Tell me, is it really that bad, or is there a danger of not using these funds? You know what they told me? Just give us the Opole Voivodeship, and we'll use more resources. This is the opinion of the local government, Minister. It is a pity that Minister Kwieciński is not here, because he is the person who may be used to tell us what the use of funds in regional operational programmes in the past looked like. We're no different from the previous hand, we were late at first, but we've caught up and there's good realization. I am 100% convinced that these measures, which are part of regional operational programmes, will be well used. I'd also like to be substantive. Minister, I'd like to ask your opinion on the loan funds. This is one of the elements, one of the components of regional operational programmes. What does it look like to be implemented, how do you assess the different regions, in terms of the measures that I think are most needed, because they come as loans? [[♪ The bell ♪]] SMEs have a significant impact on the development of the economy, including job creation. Isn't the corset that has been invested in these funds too tight, and wouldn't it be worth thinking about making these funds more flexible? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u137	Thank you. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u138	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! If you believe in media reports, Poland is in the absolute front of the EU countries in terms of the use of European funds, but, as we know, national programmes managed by the government or subordinate institutions are implemented much faster than regional programmes managed by voivodships, both in terms of signed contracts and distributed funds, and this discrepancy closes between 6 and 8 percentage points. I would like to ask the Minister whether the current level of use of EU funds by local authorities does not pose a risk that regions can irreversibly lose EU money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u139	Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u140	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! PiS is growling at local government - and we've actually gotten used to it - but what we've been watching today, or maybe for a few weeks now, is actually an open war in the name of political goals, a war full of contradictions and lies. That's what my colleagues will be talking about. It is amazing, however, that in this war the minister, who should be aware that Poland's development cannot be ensured, cannot be guaranteed the competitiveness of our economy and sustainable economic growth without social capital, without social capital understood as being able to support each other in achieving his own goals. State institutions: government and local government should support each other, but they should also support entrepreneurs who want to develop, who want to invest, support NGOs, finally support all citizens who want to live comfortably, safely and prosperously in Poland. You can't build this social capital without trust, Minister. What are you doing? You're making accusations without any excuses, any contradictions, any growls at the local government, any growls at NGOs, any entrepreneurs, any ordinary citizens. It's time to put an end to this practice. Finally, take care of what you are called for: for the development of Poland and the Polish economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u141	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u142	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr PiS threw a glove here on the subject of the seemingly poor use of EU funds by local authorities. It must be said, Mr President, that you threw poorly, badly, and that glove did not fly out of the mouthpiece area. So that your words are directed the wrong way. You should be directing those words to government benches. Because what are the real causes, not so much delays, as the slower pace of use? Of course, the centralization of the state and the desire to focus all decisions only in one hand on Nowogrodzka. Details? There you go. Long-term agreements on national documents, e.g. Partnership agreement and compliance with the Responsible Development Strategy. Setting more stringent targets at government level than those of the European Commission. Problems with the contribution of self-governments - attention - due to the cost of reforms to local governments. Increased controls paralyzing the normal functioning of the government's offices, which the government has organised for local governments. [[Applause]] Changing statutory requirements. Ladies and gentlemen! Decision-making at regional level has been strongly dependent on national arrangements. These requirements were not in the previous perspective, which made it easier and faster, of course. It is clear, therefore, that the only brake for spending EU funds, both at the level of local government and at national level, ladies and gentlemen, is the Law and Justice, taking action to multiply problems and having such an overwhelming desire to manually control everyone and everyone. Here I will address Poles and Poles who are certainly watching our debate today, because EU funds are an important issue. Ladies and gentlemen! A real threat to spending [[♪ The bell ♪]] EU funds at local level are those Siewiczze from the PiS, who today in the local elections are waiting in the starting blocks to take over local governments, destroy local governments and lay a hand on these EU funds. If they take over, that will be exactly what the PiS Member was talking about. But - note - if for spending EU funds...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u143	Mrs Urszula Pasławska. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u144	I'm almost done, Marshal. ...will be answered by the same people who today respond, strengthened by modern staff, that will certainly be...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u145	Thank you very much, sir, for your speech. Mrs Urszula Pasławska...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u146	...usefully and in a timely manner for the benefit of the locals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u147	... Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u148	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Colleagues of the Self-Governmentians! Thank you very much for being here today during the debate. When we spoke, you made it clear that we are at your disposal. Minister Kwieciński does not want to talk to local government about spending European funds, but the marshals who are responsible for this will be happy to answer your questions. I am a little surprised that there is no Minister Kwieciński in this debate, because spending European funds is his horse not from now on, but on the other hand he may just be ashamed, because it is easier to throw a few calumnia into one camera than to go out and speak openly about data, facts and what today's reality regarding the implementation of European funds looks like. I'm just wondering, in whose interest you are acting, throwing these defilements at the local governments. After all, you do not act in the interests of self-government, you do not act in the interests of regions or society, because, first of all, what you are talking about, to say the least, is the truth, because the data you use is often old data, older than the previous quarter. On the other hand, without having any influence on regional programmes, because you do not account for them or supervise them, because the European Commission is overseeing them, simply having no influence on them... [[Lucky for you.]] ...you are trying to weaken the negotiating position of the regions for the next programming period. Today, in the European Commission, in Europe, we are discussing how the allocation of European funds to the Member States is to be made for the regions. What are you doing? You are vilifying the Polish regions in order to weaken their negotiating position. You often criticize this against Members of the opposition. What are you doing? Shame. One more thing. National programmes are far less [[♪ The bell ♪]] implemented than regional programmes - this is what EU Regio Poland tweeted - even though they were negotiated 8 months earlier than regional programmes. Minister, let's do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u149	Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am a Member of the Warmińsko-Mazurskie Voivodeship, where the Minister has spoken so much wrong in terms of the use of funds. I am very sorry to say that the information provided by the Minister is unfortunately incorrect. I also do not agree that the Structural Funds, so important for Poland, should be the subject of a political game. There is no loss of funds for non-fulfilment of the so-called. principles n+3 in Warmińsko-Mazurskie voivodship. In order to meet it, the voivodship needs to submit payment applications to the European Commission for € 238 million by the end of 2018. Today's implementation is €210 million, 88%. At the beginning of October another EUR 17 million will be transferred. These are funds already paid to beneficiaries. Together, this will be €227 million, which represents 95.4%. Applications for payment in the course of the evaluation shall amount to EUR 35 million. In the fourth quarter, €15 million will be transferred to BGK, which together amounts to € 275 million, or 116%. the amount needed. There is therefore no risk of recovery. There is no risk of reaching the framework for the implementation of the regional operational programme in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship for the years 2014 to 2020. One more thing. In September this year, a regional conference was held at which a representative of the European Commission was present. It was he who said that there is no risk of recovery, whereas the dynamics of implementation are very good. I always thought the government was working, or at least wants to work, with local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Unfortunately, it's different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u151	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats - another speech. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u152	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! And there's another installment, at the next point, of the political battle. Political. It's just political. Mr Łukasz Schreiber has left. I don't know if he wrote it himself or if someone was preparing it for him. If he's prepared for it, it's wrong to hate self-government. [[Voice from the room: That's not true what you're saying. On what grounds do you say such things?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, what are you talking about?]] Did I disturb you? [[The voice in the room: how you talk nonsense.]] You, too, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even worse sometimes. I was in the local government. I was negotiating the closing of the past period... [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u153	Please, sir... You wouldn't want to be disturbed either. Therefore, please allow us to complete the presentation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u154	I will return to the issues included in the Minister's speech. Minister, once again it turns out that the data you provide is inconsistent with the data from the voivodships. Don't look for a scapegoat in the voivodships. Why didn't you tell me how late it was after the government changed? Why didn't you tell me what the difficulties were for the voivodships that changed the criteria? Why didn't you say that the voivodships, closing the previous period, used the funds? You point to Świętokrzyskie voivodship. It used all the resources from that period. And this year? 53%. We're halfway through the allocation period. We have n+3, we have conditions. You want the province to manage the funds itself? What about local authorities? And the county? And the fact that you took the money to reform the school, the fact that the municipalities didn't make their own contribution? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where did this come from? Just one more question. You're not really saying that national programmes are being implemented better. Then tell us how much percentage you used from the Operational Programme. That's not how you do it. Are you the minister of the PiS government, or are you the national government that's supposed to defend the local government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u155	Thank you, sir. Let me remind you that speaking time is two minutes. The more you delay this time... [[Excuse me.]] ...the fewer people will speak at this point. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Some Members in their speeches today used words that were really unworthy of this House, namely war - they said that we are at war with local governments, we will destroy local governments - or hate. We just heard about self-hatred. Why? I'm asking you a question. Why is information and concern about EU funds for individual voivodships so perceived by the opposition? I'm surprised, really, because each one of us is trying our best for our region. I am a Member from the northern part of the Śląskie voivodship and the situation concerning the threat of EU funds from the current financial perspective from 2014 to 2020, as we heard in the Minister's speech, concerns me as a Member of the Śląskie voivodship. There was an amount of around EUR 13 million mentioned here. These delays or perhaps shortcomings are due to such reasons in my view: perhaps not preparing investments, secondly, delays in competitions, perhaps too slow evaluation of projects or unclear criteria for investment selections. It's hard to judge right now. So I have a short question: What reasons can we see in the Silesian Voivodeship that these 13 million euros are at risk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u157	Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform. Here you go, another performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The applicant spoke of a guillotine that hangs over the use of EU funds. This guillotine is hanging over local governments because the government is the target of this dirty campaign. The government doesn't work with local government, it just wants to take over. And Minister Kwieciński makes a tour of Poland, in campaign rhetoric he becomes the prime minister of propaganda, manipulates public opinion and presents himself as the body responsible for accounting for regions. The truth is that the regions are cleared by the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, on 18 September, the European Commission, the EU Committee on Regional Policy, issued a statement stating that the threat of regional EU funds is minimal. Ladies and gentlemen! Note what is happening in your garden, what is the level of certification of national programmes that have been mentioned here before - Poland digital, in comparison with the regional ones. And one more thing. Members have also spoken of this here. How do you cooperate and help? What caused the creation of the Polish Water Actor? The newly created entity has problems securing its own contribution. This stops flood prevention projects, cycling paths. And these CBA controls in every marshal's office, almost a year, didn't they take away the ability of all officials to work honestly here? Ladies and gentlemen! This is the PR you're doing, but unfortunately this PR doesn't work for local communities. You just want to attack local governments and that's your main goal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u160	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! Dear Mr Schreiber, He's not here right now. Talking about RPO is very necessary, but lies are not. They serve neither the local authorities nor our homeland. Dear Applicants! You're proving once again that your propaganda is reaching its peak. In your analysis, you give an example of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, which supposedly uses EU funds badly. Let me give you a few facts: facts - cultivation - 73%, n+3.22.3%. Now it's time for historical data. The implementation of the RPO of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship for the years 2007 and 2013 amounted to 141,12%. This is the best proof, as RPO funds appear in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. I have a thorough analysis of the current perspective here, and if someone from the PiS wants to get acquainted with it, please, then maybe you will stop misleading the public. My questions. Where are your delays? Where are the funds at risk? And yet I will ask the Minister as follows: Why did the Ministry of Investment and Development refuse to allow changes to the operational programme for a few months, even though these changes were agreed with the European Commission? Why'd you do that? To delay the introduction and implementation of this programme? You blame local governments for the wrong use of resources, and the truth is that this is a bad government job that runs a permanent election campaign and there is no time to pass a good law. You don't create good conditions for government-government cooperation. And now, ladies and gentlemen, to be specific, I ask: [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it the government's fault for the late adoption of the Law on Revitalization - October 2016, the absence of a river basin management plan, the late approval of the national waste management plan - August 2016? I could still replace a few more items. What's really going on here?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u161	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u162	Why are you lying about the election campaign? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u163	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It is not surprising here the uprising of the Members of the opposition, mainly the Platform and the PSL. You had plenty of time to get to work. It wouldn't be a problem if your marshals actually... [[What are you talking about?]] ...also Marshal of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodship, they worked as they should when acquiring external resources. A moment ago, Mrs PSL stated that you were based on Twitter data. Very interesting, the ministry has reliable data, these are hard data, hard numbers. [[With double criteria.]] Among the voivodships at risk of losing EU funds is voivodship Kujawsko-Pomorskie. From the data for September, from the hard data for September this year, it appears that in terms of funds at risk of return to Brussels, it was almost EUR 180 million. Signed contracts are only 50%, and the settlement of funds is 10.4%. Minister! Thank you very much for the effective intervention, for monitoring the situation, for publicising problems, because it turns out, from what you said, what I am extremely pleased about as a resident of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region, that the situation of my voivodship has changed, but that is not a reason for joy yet. [[The good government did it.]] Minister! I would like to ask you why there are delays in investing EU funds in the voivodship. Why are contracting and reimbursement levels much lower than the average in the country? And one more question: What is the chance of Kujawsko-Pomorskie avoiding the threat of losing the performance reserve? It is now at 100%. [[A good government will help.]] This is absolutely not a reason for satisfaction for the Sejmik rulers of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very sorry that Minister Kwieciński is not here because I wanted to tell him in his eyes that he is lying. The government is doing everything it can to make it difficult for local governments to carry out tasks under regional operational programmes, and now it is trying to blame the marshals. I wonder if Minister Kwieciński knows where the delays came from in the implementation of research and development investments in scientific units and universities in my voivodship, in Łódź. This is due to the absence of a procedure for granting funding from the State budget to beneficiaries. The Ministry of Development at no time, even at the stage of adoption of the project selection criteria, which was the fourth quarter of 2016, did not wish to inform that there were delays in this respect. Only after the interventions did it turn out that there was no amendment to the regulation on the allocation of funds for investments for research needs. Do you know when the amendment of this regulation came into force? June this year. And you do know that this amended regulation turned out to be a bubble, too? The case is that the projects were selected in April and December 2017 and the contracts were only signed in the first quarter of 2018, because the managing authority could not sign them without confirming the security of funds from the Ministry of Science and Education. I mean, it's obvious he's not the marshal, it's the government. The minister's just lying. No one will convince me, and it will be difficult for anyone to convince me that sending multi-monthly checks, discrediting marshals or delaying national decision-making is aid. Or care. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more question: If you lose the local elections, which I wish everyone, will the PiS transfer the management of EU funds to the voivodships? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u167	Thank you. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! National programmes are still much better implemented than regional programmes for which the regional authorities are responsible. There is diversity between voivodships, so delays are probably due only to negligence, lack of competence of the management boards of individual voivodships. [[Voice from the courtroom: With government negligence.]] Quiet. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet, because you're interfering with reading.]] Unfortunately, Podlaskie voivodship is extremely weak in this competition, not to say the worst. This is all the more frustrating because we know that Podlasie has significant developmental delays. It would seem that she should make an extreme effort to make the most of the European Union's resources. Podlasie is the worst out of the so-called. certification. Conversely, this is the sum of funds spent on investments and settled with the European Commission. In this respect, the Marshal's Office of Podlaskie Voivodship occupies the last place on the list. The situation is so serious that Podlasie, traditionally occupying one of the last places in the country in terms of investment and the amount of EU funds allocated, will not use the funds negotiated in the European Union under the RPO. It is also no secret that the local government and its subordinate units, among others. The Podlaskie Regional Road Administration, with great difficulty acquire national funds from operational programmes, including those dedicated primarily to Podlasie, eastern Poland. The Podlaskie Regional Road Administration probably could not submit correctly several times, during the time of the competitions specifically addressed to Podlasie. Ladies and gentlemen! Last time I was driving by the voivodeship no. 690 and on about 20 km section Ciechanowiec - The condition of this road is tragic. It's a voivodship road and it's supposed to be under construction, but nothing's been going on there for a long time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and its condition poses a threat to the safety of users. I have a question: Minister, how can we avoid losing the EUR 106 million that will not be used in the Podlaskie Voivodeship? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u169	Thank you, Member. I did not mean to interrupt your speech, but I will refer to your comments on the Members and Members of Parliament. I think you think it was the wrong way to talk right now. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Is it proper to interrupt?]] There's a marshal in the courtroom to keep order. I already talked about that today. You are also commenting on the other side's speeches, so please do not complain that the opposite party does the same. On the other hand, I think that speaking in the formula that you have used, Madam, is nowhere to be found, and I am convinced of it, also in this Chamber. [[Voice from the room: But you're not responding.]] Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a saying: the devil is dressed in an ornament and his tail is ringing at Mass. This is where the candidate, Mr Schreiber, came in. [[A candidate for what?]] PiS - concerned about local governments of voivodships. You gotta be kidding me, ladies and gentlemen. Who invented the policy of machining in the case of local governments of voivodships? You. Replace? Reception of regional agricultural advisory centers, collection of regional managements of melioration and water equipment, taking away the influence on the functioning of the voivodship funds in order to settle their own Pisiewiczs there. As far as spending EU funds is concerned, who started by denying the confidence of local governments? Who questioned the design of regional operational programmes? Who's been renegotiating voivodship contracts for a long time? Who has long established a legal framework for spending money? Who finally led to the freezing effect by sending CBA controls? You. Now you're worried. In a situation where you can't really produce an external document that says there's an important problem. What's changed? It is not the local governments of the voivodships that have changed, the local authorities, which have perfectly realized the previous perspective. You're the ones who've changed as central power. You're the ones who've made this horrible change that makes it impossible to have a relationship. The previous government found motivational mechanisms, a performance reserve contest. It's different now, but you can't think of anything. That's the truth. Begin by hitting your own chest, and then [[♪ The bell ♪]] Look for a beam in the eye of self-government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u171	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u172	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Unfortunately, among the mismanaged voivodships there is Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, which is directed by PSL and assisted by PO. In the threatened loss of EU funds, the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship has over EUR 70 million. The amount of 29 million, as the Minister said, stems from the so-called. rules n+3. These are budget expenditure for the following years and in this case unused appropriations must be reimbursed to Brussels. The second amount, EUR 41 million, comes from the performance reserve. Delays in the preparation of local projects, prolonged work on project selection criteria, changes in call schedules, prolonged period of verification of applications for funding, especially excessive complicated procedures - all translated into low programme implementation rates. This is particularly evident at the level of payments and verification of expenditure as regards the European Commission. Minister! Why do you think that the 2014-2020 programme is much slower being implemented than the 20072013 programme? Why do you think the Warmińsko-Mazurskie Voivodeship Board held back and delayed the calls for proposals? Why didn't the poorly-functioning Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship Board draw conclusions in due time and definitely didn't improve the situation? Only the intervention of the Government of Law and Justice, intervention of us, parliamentarians of Law and Justice, among others. a colleague of Jerzy Małecki, a colleague of Iwona Arent and mine, caused that part of the local government of Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship started working. This should have happened a few years ago. Thank you very much. [[No kidding, no kidding.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u173	Thank you very much. Another speech - Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u174	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Kwieciński is not here today! Lying and revenge are really bad advisors. Unfortunately, the government, which comes from a group called something else suggesting something else, took it for its motto. As not to call a lie what you, Minister Kwieciński, speak, riding around Poland. You drive around the country and you lie. For this reason, you had to flee from both Lublin and Katowice. We're hoping it'll be from the government soon. And the truth is that the list of government negligence and omissions that have effectively delayed the implementation of the RPO is long. I'm gonna start by saying that you sent control to marshals first. For example, in the marshal's office in Katowice the CBA sought for 9 months. So? It didn't detect anything, but it took a priceless time, let alone the stress of the employees. Is that what this was about, Minister Kwieciński? Do you take revenge for being dismissed from the government in the days of the PO-PSL? Then you imposed too fast the pace of implementation and due to overheating of the market - I will not explain all this - for the same money the investments are made on a smaller scale. Is that what this was about, Minister? I will not talk about Vat, about changes to the guidelines, which you have not explained to this day, about not taking into account the comments of the regional amendment to the implementation law or the mechanism for coordinating health protection and digitalisation. All this - and many other things - did not help the regions, on the contrary. Finally, I have a question to the Minister: Has the European Commission raised any reservations about the implementation by the regions of the N+3 principle in the EU spending and whether it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerns the Śląskie voivodship? What action has the government taken to help the regions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u175	Thank you. Mrs Anna Krupka, Law and Justice. There you go, it's another performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the end of last year the local government of Świętokrzyskie Voivodship was at the gray end, the worst in Poland in terms of spending EU funds. He has now pulled up a bit, but probably under the influence of my information campaign, showing the risk of losing funds in Świętokrzyskie voivodship. [[Oh, my God!]] In December Ub. During the session of the Sejmik Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, I asked the Marshal of Adam Jarubas to present a resolution programme for the Świętokrzyskie regional operational programme. Later, I also asked him about this in an open letter. I haven't gotten a constructive response from the marshal so far. Hence my question: Minister, did the Marshal of the Świętokrzyskie Voivodship Adam Jarubas present to the Ministry of Investment and Development a program for the recovery of funds from the regional operational programme? The problem with spending EU funds in Świętokrzyskie voivodship has been considered so serious that the European Commission has taken over the region with its special monitoring. I therefore ask you, Minister, with the question: Does the Ministry of Investment and Development have any conclusions from such supervision? Have the officials of the European Commission made such first proposals? And another one of my questions. According to the data of the Ministry of Investment and Development, delays in investing funds in Świętokrzyskie are the result of unprepared investments - example are voivodship roads - too late running funds for some areas - e.g. This applies to financial instruments - non-precision rules for the selection of investments; [[♪ The bell ♪]] nearly five times lower R &amp; D expenditures compared to the average for Poland. In view of the above, is the Ministry of Investment and Development planning in the next financial perspective of the European Union to introduce specific mechanisms that will counter such negligence and such slowness of the Marshals of voivodships, especially the Marshal of Świętokrzyski? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u177	Thank you, Member. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listen to my friends from PiS, I think there are masochists in the voivodship. They're doing this to spite themselves. That's how they want to lose this election, and they're ruining these projects and they're lazy and they're not implementing themselves so they're gonna lose the money. [[Yeah, I'm afraid so.]] And speaking to the specifics, I address the absent minister. You used the Minister's two criteria to assess the state of implementation of regional operational programmes in this perspective. These are the two most important criteria that talk about whether well and at what rate measures are being implemented. One is a rule n+3 and this one is examined in perspective, because it says that money must be contracted and spent by 2023. It's 2018. There is some monitoring of the pace with regard to the nature of the projects. In national programmes there is e.g. better execution only because it was the government of PO and PSL that decided the largest contracts for the largest infrastructure investments. This implementation has taken place and is now saving your indicators. The second criterion is to examine the indicators for achieving the objectives and these are drawn up at the end of 2018. This has an impact on the possible use or implementation reserve, and if there is no chance of implementing these indicators - there is definitely no chance - the European Commission can impose penalties. None of these dates have passed, especially since, at the end of last year, NIK carried out a monitoring of implementation and sees no risks to national programmes or regional programmes, indicating that some national programmes are at risk. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you doing this? Because you're lying. You lie in government, you lie in government. This is your new PiS song for the local government election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Nobletka, Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I don't think your envoy's here. Then I'll cross him off the list. And I invite Mrs Krystyna Sibinska. [[Sibinski.]] Sibinski. I'm sorry. [[Sibińska.]] Well, that's what it says on the list, so you're actually improving your name. Sibińska, Civic Platform. [[He's softening up.]] Every time I say it wrong, right? [[Sibińska.]] [[Voice from the room: It softens.]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] After all, Sibińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Lubuskie province, of which I am a representative, is - as in the previous perspective - in the top of the regions with regard to signed agreements and allocated EU funds. In Lubusek there is no risk of loss of resources due to principle n+3. Lubuskie won't lose, and he'll spend more than he's expected. Lubuskie is at the forefront of the regions, because there are professional investments prepared, timely competitions announced according to schedule and additional competitions, there is an accelerated evaluation of projects and simplification of procedures, there are trainings and meetings in each district for beneficiaries in the preparation of proposals. Unfortunately, it is not as you said, Minister, that the situation is satisfactory at national level. You should know, for example. Two situations. PKP PLK is not ready to submit proposals for the planned implementation of the following investments under the Regional Operational Programme - Lubuskie 2020: modernisation of railway line No 358 Zbąszynek - Gubin on the section Zbąszynek - Czerwińsk - II stage and regeneration of railway line No 203 on the section Krosz - Gorzów Wielkopolski. This means that until today no contracts are signed, thus there is a risk of losing funds from the performance reserve for the entire axis 5. RPO. And it's gonna be the government's fault, not the government's. Secondly, the issue of flood protection. Delays in the preparation of the water management plan and the establishment of Polish Waters prevented flood protection. Since January, it has been the government's responsibility to take care of flood protection, and Polish waters, as we all know, are unable to do so. They are not prepared to reach for Union funds that can be used. So, Minister, instead of campaigning, for example. Mr. What and blackmail the local government because if they get elected non-written candidates, they don't get the money, you gotta get to work, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And above all, not to lie. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u181	Thank you very much. You spoke with Krystyna Sibińska from the Civic Platform. And now Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice. [[Mosiński.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u182	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We weren't the ones talking about freezing EU funds. I quote Rafał Trzaskowski, the policy of the Civic Platform, a member of your club: Luckily, thanks to our efforts, this money is not lost, but it will be frozen. If we win the next election, this money will be unfreezed. End of quote. And, secondly, the opposition hypocrites are recommended to report to the Supreme Board of Control... [[Yeah, that's right.]] ...which concerns spending funds in regional programmes, critical to pain. And yet the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control is not written, as you like to say, but platformer. [[I was just quoting.]] These two important issues make it necessary to ask the opposition a question at the beginning. Is there a parallel between what Rafał Trzaskowski said and what we see in the context of EU funds spent? I leave the answer to the honourable state. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, it must be worrying that Poland may lose over EUR 1300 million of unused funds for development investments. This is undoubtedly the result of the wrong regional development model preferred by the Civic Platform and PSL, this model is called the diffusion and polarisation model. The stable development of the whole country is the even development of Polish regions, i.e. all areas forming them. That is why Law and Justice in their electoral programme appealed to the need for change, proposing instead of a polarised and diffuse development model the introduction of a sustainable development model, which was often mentioned in his speeches by the President of Law and Justice, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. I therefore have two questions for the Minister. Are the actions proposed by the government really moving towards a sustainable development model? Secondly, does the government want to involve small cities and rural areas in the development process? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u183	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I never started my speech with lying, lying, lying and lying again. Today, after a dozen years, it happened to me for the first time in this tribune to say such words. But this lie has penetrated every aspect of life. The Prime Minister lies, the ministers lie, the courts prove it. And today we also hear it from the Seym tribune. [[He's lying, too.]] As we have heard many times from the mouth of everyone in this Chamber, Poland stands in local governments. Yes, this is certainly what the Poles managed to do - create local governments. But a few years ago, the government of Law and Justice, who didn't like these local governments, who didn't like them, who took away their powers, tried to put their people into those positions that he had eliminated. Today, to be honest, I thought that here, in this tribune, Minister Kwieciński would stand and say... [[I'm sorry.]] Thank you, thank you, thank you, and I'm sorry. I apologize for my lie, I apologize for the checks of the ABW, which lasted, as we have heard, in the Silesian Voivodeship 9 months, and in every voivodship. I apologize for slowing the use of EU funds through these controls. I thought the minister would come and thank the marshals, the presidents, the mayors, the wolves and the crowds of local workers, who every day try to make this money, every dollar, every euro spent effectively. But today there's not this gentleman who threw words at the wind and lied. He didn't dare come. Minister, I wanted to ask you if you are familiar with the implementation of the N+3 rule in the Silesian Voivodeship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't, go to the marshal, he'll give it to you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u185	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u186	Minister, is it true that the state of progress of some RPOs is so worrying that the European Commission has taken special supervision with expert support, and is this group of voivodships included also the Lublin Voivodeship, where the state of the funds at risk was presented not so long ago, maintained at the level of EUR 80 million? And it was not Minister Kwieciński who had to flee from Lublin, only the Marshal of the Voivodeship, present just now, no longer present, who ran away with his officials from this meeting, because this is what the discussion with you looks like. I would like to ask at this point whether the so-called is being implemented. Integrated territorial investment in Lublin. The marshal is responsible for managing these funds. I ask if, and if the funds are not spent, because from my knowledge, the funds are not spent at all for this purpose, then why is this happening. And thank you, of course, on this occasion, to the ministry which mobilises and renegotiates certain conditions with the European Commission in order to reduce the risks of not using funds for us. Here the Minister gave detailed examples of what the Ministry is doing to reduce this risk, and the opposition state calls it destruction of local governments and growling on local governments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u187	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform. You're welcome. And thank you, Mrs Butterwska, for your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland is the largest beneficiary of EU aid for the period 2014 It is because the Platform and PSL government has negotiated for Poland EUR 82.5 billion, which are implemented in Poland through two types of programmes: six national operational programmes and 16 regional programmes, which are managed by local governments. Poland is one of the leaders in the use of EU funds. This can be easily checked because the implementation of the RPO is examined by external institutions, among others. by the audit authority, the Ministry of Finance. Given the specifics, I've checked what it's like in Lower Silesia. In Lower Silesia, all audits of the system and operations confirm the smooth implementation of the RPO, which indicates that Lower Silesia is perfectly capable of spending EU funds. Only up to 31 August 2018, 308 calls for funding were announced under the programme, involving 86.87% European Union funds, i.e. the amount of PLN 8391 million. The fact that as many as 7237 applications for funding were submitted in response to the competitions also shows a strong interest. The Management Board of the Dolnośląskie Voivodship selected 3118 projects after expert evaluation, and the total funding from the European Union is over PLN 6734 million, i.e. 69.7% the allocation of the programme. Why are you lying? Why are your governments based on a lie? You lie about the roads, you lie about the use of EU funds by local governments that you want to centrally manage from Nowogrodzka. The lie has short legs and a long nose Pinocchio and I talked about it after the last visit of Minister Adamczyk, who without the participation of local authorities opened the investment, the Kłodzek ring road completely realized thanks to the Platform. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I was talking about when the Minister of Infrastructure and the Prime Minister lied, announcing that an express road would be built on the Wrocław - Kłodzko section to the state border. Instead of lying, perhaps you should do better to use EU funds in national programmes, which, I will remind you once again, we have gained for Poland in record height. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u189	Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. You're welcome. I don't think you have an MP. Is it? Oh, I'm sorry, it is. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! According to the Ministry of Investment and Development on 31 August, the use of EU funds from the perspective of 2014 and 2020 on a national scale amounts to more than 62%. As regards their clearance with the Union, this represents 14% in the regional programmes and 20% in the in national programmes. Divided by voivodships it looks different, some do better, others do worse, or even very bad. The Dolnośląskie Voivodeship, which my previous speaker was just talking about, is on the middle level... [[Five, five out of sixteen, exactly.]] Yeah, but that's about the level of several voivodships, so that's what I'm talking about when it comes to the average level. However, what does it look like when it comes to the Lower Silesian Voivodeship when it comes to implementing the Sustainable Development Programme? When you visit districts and municipalities in my district, you can see with the naked eye that not everyone is treated equally when it comes to the use of funds. This is also confirmed in conversations conducted either with local authorities or with residents of those places I visit. So I have a question: Does the Ministry have information on what criteria the funds are divided by the marshals? Doesn't it outweigh the criterion that they first get theirs? [[There is no such criterion.]] And in almost all seymics, the PO-PSL coalition is in power. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: It's a scandal, a scandal!]] [[Each of them measures with its own measuring measure.]] [[Everyone reads how they can.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u191	Paweł Bańkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u192	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of the Marshals! The conference of Minister Kwieciński organized on 21 September in Katowice is another stage of the PiS government war with the local government and the implementation of the campaign scenario for their colleagues to the Śląskie voivodship. Minister Kwieciński manipulates public opinion, manipulates facts by presenting himself as the body responsible for the implementation of the regions, while this implementation is settled by the European Commission. I have a question, Minister. Is it true that the European Commission has ever raised objections to the level of implementation of the N+3 principle in the Silesian Voivodeship and other voivodships? Is it true that the European Commission informed the Ministry of Development about the risk in implementing the RPO of the Silesian Voivodship and other voivodships? And did Minister Kwieciński or someone from the Ministry of Development talk to the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship about the potential threat to the use of EU funds and to the marshals of other voivodships? Does this communication take place during press conferences and fit into the scenario of the PiS local campaign in all voivodships? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u193	Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not hide that I am surprised by this attack on the minister, strong words, language of hatred, state of unwarranted expression. I am a Member of Belchatov, a Member of the Łódź Region, and I will be honest with you, and I am also concerned about the fact that EUR 100 million is at stake. Such an amount for the Łódź voivodship is a huge amount that could make Łódź, the Łódź voivodship grow, and it will not be in place, and unfortunately it does not look good. Someone from the opposition said the government wasn't cooperating with the local government. In my opinion, in many cases, it is that local governments do not work with the government, do not work with parliamentarians, thus losing the opportunity to develop, which could be done by means of measures that would create new roads, new facilities, would be built a higher level of education or security. Minister! I have a question: Isn't it just that some self-governments lose their chances? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u195	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Today's debate on the proposal of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is unfortunately aimed at local governments, regional governments. I'm not being literal around here. Firstly, the applicant's statement, the content of the statement, followed by the Minister's statement, which focused all his attention on regional programmes. I'll get to the national programs in a minute. In addition, some Members, speaking, even spoke about mismanagement in voivodships. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolute abuse, and you're still surprised that we're complaining about it, and we're paying attention. And why is this happening today? It's because you don't succeed in lying in the field. Representatives of the government at election meetings mislead the Polish society on the use of regional EU funds, basing their information on data from a few months ago. I think they're doing it on purpose. Because what was the situation in Lublin, that I would remind you, or in Katowice, when the quick reaction of the marshal and his services revealed what it was really like? Instantly, groups, representatives of the minister and the minister themselves disappeared. Isn't that a shame, ladies and gentlemen? It's a great shame. However, not a word about the threat of national programmes. [[Because there isn't, there's no such threat.]] And yet... Here I ask the Minister: What is the progress of the national programmes Eastern Poland, Digital Poland and Intelligent Development? After all, we know that these programs are badly implemented. Is there a repair program? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Małecki, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The analysis of the state of implementation of the RPO for the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship for the years 2014-2020 shows a very real risk of loss of significant resources already this year. In my opinion, this is mainly due to delays of a management nature. We are one of the poorer voivodships and not taking advantage of these opportunities, these measures deepen our gap in relation to more rich voivodships or regions. Therefore, I have a question: Does the Ministry see these risks in achieving the framework of implementation of the RPO in the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship and is there a real threat in the ministry's assessment - and this is a detailed question - to lose more than EUR 6 million in terms of: the environment? Let me point out that we are thought to be so-called. Polish lungs and this loss would be very painful. Last week we asked the Marshal of Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodship about this issue. We haven't received an answer so far. From what I've seen, Mr. Marshal was present today at the Sejm meeting, but after asking Mrs. Leczyna, he left. I hope he answers these questions. This is an inquiry, as Mr Gosievski mentioned, that we have submitted together with him and with Mrs Iwona Arent. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u199	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Dziuk. I don't see a Member. In that case, Mr Jan Kilian, Law and Justice. And neither is your envoy. In this connection, the last speech was made by Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Kwieciński is so ashamed of what the Members of the PiS are saying, of the fact that he did not even come here today to listen and respond. Ladies and gentlemen! Marshal offices, which you have not yet been able to take over, these local governments, are for you with PiS salt in your eye so much that you are doing what you can to discredit them. Finally, believe that the Marshal's offices are perfectly capable of spending EU funds. Not much, for example. in my voivodship, in Pomorskie voivodship, thanks to the operationality of the marshal, for which we thank you very much, we are the leader in managing and spending EU funds. Nevertheless, this is happening in these marshal offices, even though the PiS state is doing what you can to make this job difficult for them. You send checks that last for months. [[Very good that there are controls.]] You establish Polish Waters, which make it difficult to agree on any projects, at least in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, practically do not agree on this. Polish waters don't work. It's a creature that... You guys really should take a look at this. I've filed an interrogation on this. I didn't get an answer. Somehow it's dragging on. I wanted to ask: Is what you are doing, criticizing the marshals' offices and marshals, the first step you have to take over the EU funds you really want to take over, but you don't have a way to bite it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u201	Thank you. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Joanna Borowiak. [[I'm on my way, Marshal.]] Slowly, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Minister, thank you very much for your reliable and complete information on the state of implementation of cohesion policy programmes in Poland. It is particularly important that EU money available to our country is spent effectively, to the benefit of all citizens. Today's debate has shown the importance of the problem of inappropriate, inefficient use of EU money by local governments of voivodships. The opposition was thundering today, the Platform with PSL, talking about it being a political battle, that we are doing politics here, that we are against local governments. That's not true. This is a battle about money for Polish local governments, so that they are not wasted. The Platform Members recommend reaching to the iPad - this is a simple action - is the NIK control report. The Platform Member said that it is beneficial for local governments - it is unfavorable. I recommend reading with understanding. The report clearly states that the results are unsatisfactory. PO and PSL have shown that they are not good owners in local governments. [[Mr Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Nonsense.]] Hard data, numbers and facts leave no illusions here. The Ministry of Investment and Development is based on data from the central IT system. You are based, as Mrs PSL said, on data, on Twitter information. So it's a central IT system versus Twitter. Congratulations on your well-being. [[Voice from the room: We are already in digital Poland.]] Our regions need good hosts who will be able to use every dollar of EU money to give impetus to the development of the regions. In particular, the inhabitants of forgotten and neglected areas are aware of this, areas that suffer the negative effects of the so-called. a polarization and diffusion model promoted by the PO-PSL government. This model was intended to develop regions and contributed to the development of the strongest centres and even greater degradation of these small and medium-sized ones. Here is an example: 122 medium-sized cities with 255 are at risk of collapse, that is almost half of medium-sized cities. The inhabitants of Podkarpacie, which is managed by the Marshal of the Voivodship from Law and Justice, also know this very well. They have already made changes in the local government and this change is beneficial for the region. This is a good change because it shows the correlation between government and government. And in this direction we want to take responsibility for all regions. The Government of Law and Justice conducts a sustainable development policy, supporting those places on the map of the country that were forgotten by the predecessors. We are concerned that people in Poland will live their best in every place so that the regions will change for the better. But in order to do so, a broad stream of funds from the European Union should be used fully and skillfully. So we can't let local governments give back that money, we can't let that money go away. The information presented by the Minister indicates that we are facing a serious threat to EU funds. We are talking about an enormous amount of over EUR 1 billion. What we have heard is all the more worrying because it concerns money directed towards the development of regions which in particular need smart, proactive investments. The government has helped the voivodships, that must be emphasised. Thanks to the government's support in discussions with the Commission, actions to amend EU rules, the voivodships have been given permission to reduce indicators, and the rules for settlement of the implementation framework are lighter. As a result, potential losses have been reduced. The Minister of Investment and Development actively and, as you can see, has effectively involved in assisting local governments in the efficient management of operational programmes. Here I would like to thank you very much for this continuous monitoring and for making the problems public, because, as you can see, Minister, from what you have presented, keeping your hand on the pulse is working. Although the opposition MEPs are concerned about controls, it shows that such monitoring is worthwhile. Ladies and gentlemen! We strongly hope that the local governments will be open to the Ministry's proposals, which will help to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of regional operational programmes. EU funds should be invested in projects to stimulate development at the level of municipalities, powiats and regions. Only the Sustainable Development Programme will ensure this and only effective recourse to external resources in local governments, because any delays and errors in their spending will result in wasted opportunities for the development of our regions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u203	Thank you, Member, for your speech. I invite you to the speaker of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Investment and Development of Mr. Adam Hamryszczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u204	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will address some of the issues that have been raised today. Well, at the very beginning - Minister of Investment and Development Jerzy Kwieciński is not a coward or a liar, but he is a top-notch professional, [[Applause]] valued in the country, but also abroad, and this must be remembered. The second point - it is really Minister Jerzy Kwieciński who has been waiting for representatives of the marshals since today. 9 at the meeting of the interministerial team, which is every quarter... [[They chickened out!]] ...organized by the Ministry of Investment and Development. The next issue is the reliability of the data. The Member has already said it here, but once again, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat it. Data is generated from a central IT system, commonly called SL2014. There are no lies here from our side. I will also point out a number of complementary issues in this area concerning the implementation of specific national or regional programmes. There was a mention of the "Smart Development" Operational Programme. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the "Smart Development" Operational Programme, contracting is 61%. , certification - over 15%. The Operational Programme - Poland digital, about which so much has been said today: contracting, ladies and gentlemen - 83% , certification - close to 14%. And the operational programme, which I am pleased to supervise, is proud to have such pleasure and opportunity, i.e. Eastern Poland Operational Programme: contracting - more than 70%, certification - almost 20%. As far as the Eastern Poland Operational Programme is concerned and the implementation of the N+3 principle, we actually guaranteed complete peace a few months ago, no funds in this programme are, ladies and gentlemen, at risk. [[Applause]] I ask you, as regards the regions that have been mentioned here today, to manage regional operational programmes. As regards the regional operational programme for Świętokrzyskie voivodship, the contracting process is 53%. , and certification - currently at 12% . As for the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, which was mentioned here - data for today, which were generated by the system, from 30 September - this is a cultivation of 51% Whereas certification is 14%. I think that the issue of these differences, as it appears in the various regions, is very easy to see, ladies and gentlemen. I will repeat again, because I think that not everyone has remembered from my statement this concern of the European Commission regarding the implementation of regional operational programmes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the progress of some regional operational programmes is so worrying that the European Commission has taken part in the voivodships: Lubelskie voivodship, Świętokrzyskie voivodship, Podlaskie voivodship and Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship with special supervision and special expert support. As far as Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship is concerned, in answer to your question, I will say so. Of course, Mr. Marshal has sent us a recovery plan, but the most important is not the recovery plan itself, it's the way it's being implemented. And that's what I'd like to draw attention to. I think this data shows how this corrective programme is being implemented, ladies and gentlemen. As far as integrated territorial investments are concerned in the Lublin Voivodeship, the state of implementation is, ladies and gentlemen, grieved. Why? Because the projects that should be carried out in the partnership formula were not properly prepared and should be prepared and should be the force that drags both contracting and payments. Ladies and gentlemen! Just a few more technical issues. Since I have been dealing with European funds for many years at different levels of implementation, I would like to say to Mr Mark Sowie that there are really no reports sent to the European Commission on a quarterly basis. It's never been like this, ladies and gentlemen. They're sent once every six months. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the role of the Ministry of Investment and Development is concerned, it is significant because the Minister of Investment and Development represents the Member State, i.e. Poland, and the second point is that he coordinates the implementation of regional operational programmes. Minister Jerzy Kwieciński has the legitimacy to express himself in terms of whether it's cultivation, whether it's payments or certification for individual regional operational programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as measures that are at stake in the Silesian Voivodeship are concerned, I will say yes. As far as the n+3 rule is concerned, we have an amount of EUR 13 million, and as far as the performance reserve is concerned, we can talk today about EUR 75 million. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that we want strong regions, which efficiently, without any delay, implement the funds granted to them under regional operational programmes, but we also want individual voivodships to be managed by professional managers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Your Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u205	Thank you, Minister. In a formula? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, First, I need to know what kind of formula.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u206	I asked the question, I did not receive the answer and I would like to ask the Minister to answer in writing because this was an important question for me. And I want to say it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u207	Well, there you go, but that's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u208	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I asked a very specific question about the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship: Why did this ministry delay the signing of the agreements, even though the voivodship had arrangements with the Commission? There was no answer to that question. This is a very important question for me. I ask you to answer this question in writing. And to those who have asked this question, I answer that the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u209	Finish your statement, sir. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u210	... stated that the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship was not covered by... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u211	Thank you very much, sir. There was only supposed to be a written request for a reply. To this extent, I gave you the floor, not the commentary, because there was no request for any correction. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: They always do.]] [[Does it hurt? Does it hurt?]] The Minister's statement concludes this item on the agenda. [[Are you gonna beat me up again?]] [[141% hurt?]] [[Come on, Marshal, come on.]] Member, take it easy. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: the report of the National Defence Commission on the governmental bill amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland (prints no. 2786 and 2874). Mr Rafał Weber will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Generals! High Izbo! When representing the Committee on National Defence, I have the honour to present a report of the committee which has dealt with the governmental bill amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland, i.e. print no. 2786. The Commission set up a subcommittee on 13 September, which was then held its first meeting, which was typically organised. On the other hand, this is the substantive work we have done on this project on 28 September. The subcommittee held more than 2 hours in the presence of Minister Wojciech Skurkiewicz and the presence of generals, for which I thank you very much. The discussion was very lively, dynamic, and many questions were asked. All the questions were answered. During the work of the subcommittee, we decided that we would make two amendments to this bill. They are both related to the question of subordinateship of the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces directly to the Minister. One amendment concerns the determination of the time by which the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces will be directly subject to the Minister. He'll be subject to it until he's fully capable of acting by the Territorial Defence Forces. The second amendment sets out who and how it will determine the full capacity of the Territorial Defence Forces to act. This entity will be directly the Minister of National Defence and will determine this by means of an order. Both amendments were accepted by the subcommittee. The subcommittee, without objection, recommended that the committee adopt this bill. The committee then worked on 1 October. There were no substantive amendments. There was one thing about terminology, very small. It's not even worth mentioning. During the vote, the Commission gave a positive opinion on this draft law and asks the High Sejm to adopt this draft law, I repeat, the draft law popularly referred to as a small reform of the army's management and command system. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u213	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Wojciech Buczak from Law and Justice to speak. It's obviously a speech on behalf of this club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Generals! I have the honour to present the position of the Club of Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. This is a very important act, the aim of which is to introduce solutions which will simplify the system of management and command of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, as well as create conditions and organizational structures that will function during peace in a way that is as close to wartime. They will ensure a uniform division of competences and tasks and a clear separation of command levels in the Polish Army. The proposed amendments to the laws will also adapt the current command system of the Polish Armed Forces to the solutions adopted in NATO. In recent years there have been changes in the international environment, which have a direct impact on the security of the Republic of Poland. This has contributed, among other things. to significantly increase spending on our Armed Forces and upgrade equipment. Nevertheless, in order for the modern Armed Forces to function efficiently, it is necessary to construct the chain of command in a way that ensures a clear definition of the roles of the different levels and levels of command. Analysis of the existing Armed Forces control and command system leads to the conclusion that current command system solutions, e.g. The combination of strategic and operational levels in the national chain of command is not compatible with NATO and most of the Alliance countries. Within NATO, the principle is clear separation of levels: strategic, operational and tactical, and maintaining the principle of hierarchicalness in the area of decision-making powers and responsibility of individual command authorities, therefore the Polish Armed Forces system should apply the same solutions. This will ensure efficient and effective cooperation with NATO command structure and allies. The last change in the management and command system, which entered into force in January 2014, basically remodeled the structure and tasks of the leadership and command bodies of the Armed Forces of the Republic. Experiences, analyses and exercises so far point to the shortcomings of the existing system. The following main conclusions and recommendations indicate the need to strengthen strategic competences of the Head of the General Staff of the Polish Army according to the NATO command model. According to the proposed solutions, the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, being the highest active soldier and candidate for commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, will have effective instruments to represent the Armed Forces and will be able to agree on all issues relating to the consistency of operational planning in the national and ally dimension on an ongoing basis. At the same time, the Chief of Staff will be the highest soldier in active military service and will lead the entire Armed Forces. Until full capacity is achieved by the Territorial Defence Forces, i.e. until national certification is obtained, the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces will be directly subject to the Minister of National Defence. After the completion of this process, the Territorial Defence Army, like other types of Polish Armed Forces, will be subordinated to the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army. Such a solution will allow for an undistorted process of forming this extremely important for the security of the state type of Armed Forces. The above solution does not exempt the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army from carrying out planning work related to the use of this type of Armed Forces in the event of a crisis or war. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Generals! Designed law changes will certainly bring a very positive change to the Armed Forces control and command system. They will mean the introduction of a one-man responsibility for commanding the entire Polish Armed Forces, a gradual reform of the management and command system, and thus the possibility of undistorted action in the event of an external threat, and the adjustment of the command system by the Armed Forces to NATO command structures. On behalf of my club, Parliamentary Club Law [[♪ The bell ♪]] and Justice, I declare that we will vote in favour of this law. She's very positive for the security of the state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u215	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Cezary Grabarczyk to the speaker, who will make a statement on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Anthony's ghost hoveres over the project we're investigating. [[Voice from the room: Minister.]] It was Antoni Macierewicz who launched the carousel of positions in the Polish army, it was Antoni Macierewicz who started the exchange of commanders. So far more than 20 generals have left the army. That's what you need to be reminded of. This bill is to include a second race in the turnover of this carousel, because this bill will allow you to list the next commanders, the next officers in the General Staff. This is a bad bill. You take political responsibility for it. This is a bad bill because it changes the management and command system that passed the exam. You have to remind me of that. The system was introduced in 2014. In 2016, important Anakonda 2016 maneuvers were carried out. On Polish soil, NATO armed forces cooperated. These maneuvers ended in a great success for those who prepared them, planned them, and this was the Platform, and carried out, and this was already the PiS. The relay will work, the relay functioned in a beautiful way, and the command confirmed its efficiency and effectiveness in activities on the grounds of the Republic of Poland. That's why you don't need to tamper with this system. But once again, I would like to stress that you take responsibility for this. Why are these changes bad? I will quote the section of the opinion which was presented at the meeting of the Justice Committee: The same body, i.e. the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army, will simultaneously pursue the objectives of the strategic and operational level. At this point, NATO's experience should be recalled from activities carried out, among others. in the Middle East, where it has been concluded in the framework of the system for the use of experience that strategic level leadership cannot carry out its mission and operational level tasks at the same time, as consequently the objectives are blurred and none of them are properly achieved. And that's the sin of your solution. You take responsibility for this. This spirit is an even greater sin. You cannot be liberated from these fumes which were poisoned by the Polish Armed Forces Antoni Macierewicz. He's the one who started creating a private army. The territorial defence forces, which are directly under the authority of the Minister of National Defence, are unsupportable. Territorial Defence should be a unified whole with other types of Armed Forces. I appeal, withdraw from this mistake. Retreat from this mistake because you cannot allow the private army of the Minister of National Defence to be left behind. The military is supposed to be a unified whole. The planning system, the training system, the preparation of all units must be subject to the same regime. That is why the Platform has prepared amendments. We do not ask for the bill to be rejected, but we have prepared amendments which are subjecting the Territorial Defence Army to the head of the General Staff. If you say "a," then say "b," be consistent. No minister will remove the powers you grant him. How will the Minister state that the Territorial Defence Forces have already received this alert? That's not gonna happen. He's still gonna want to keep control of those troops. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We speak of the private army of the Minister of National Defence, which is why I am making amendments. We depend on the adoption of these amendments on the final position on the support of the proposed law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u217	Thank you very much for speaking. I invite Mr Szramka, Mr Kukiz to speak15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u218	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Generals! Membership! I will no longer repeat all the words that have been said, respecting you and my time. I believe that this reform, although of course it is not a complete reform of the command and command system, is going in the right direction. This is a small change that will allow for further action. I thought that the subcommittee would be used to discuss this issue, but we only limited ourselves to the provisions of this bill. Okay, let's do this, but let's also think about further directions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk made his speech on behalf of the Modern Club in writing. I invite Mr Paweł Beja, a club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Generals! High Izbo! 3 years ago, when the anti-government and anti-European government came to power, as it turns out today, the party of the PiS, [[Applause]] We have heard many announcements about national defence, the modernisation of the Armed Forces. I'm not going back to them because we already know today that all of them were basically a lie. He became Minister of National Defence in 2015 as it turned out After a while, the wrong man for this position. Mr Macierewicz told stories about the construction of submarines. So? Mr Macierewicz is gone and there are no ships. The state of the Polish Navy under the PiS government can show statistics and statements of September 1939. As it turns out, at the state of the Polish Navy in September 1939 there were five active submarines: Wolf, Ryś, Żbik, Eagle and Vulture. How's it going today? Well, it's worse. We have only three active submarines, and their average age is 45 years. That's the PiS power. The boastful announcements of Minister Macierewicz ended with the fact that we have a Navy shipyard in Radom. Even Antoni canoes are not built on a river of several meters wide, and the most anti-European president in the history of this country Andrzej Duda did not bring even licenses from Australia to produce tactical boomerangs Aboriginal 7. [[Applause]] What a joke to the side. Poles have a right to be afraid today. The Polish army needs investment and funding, but wise. Does the government understand what modern war theatre is? Does he understand the geostrategic position of Poland, which is exposed to an attack from the air and from the mainland? Where's the new weapon, where are the effective units of the digital struggle, where are the modern communications systems? What have you done over the last three years? We don't have enough fighters. Worse still, we don't have an effective defense system against nearly 2,000. The fighters that Russia owns. We don't even have an effective manual short-range rocket launcher, which is very effective and inexpensive in such conditions. The tender for combat helicopters has been cancelled and subsequent machines are grounded due to wear and tear, the need to shift parts to others. Where's the modern anti-tank weapon? Where are the rapid response units and equipment in the event of border threats? One minister's gone, the other one's here, and what are you proposing today after three years? You're saying that what used to be has to be restored. Today, after 36 months of government, you say that this previous command system was good and you're dealing with the structure. It's typical of bureaucracy, typical of people who don't know anything. The same was done by Minister Zalewska with education - she destroyed the future of hundreds of thousands of Polish children and took the school back to the level somewhere around the 19th century by changing its structure. She's put in a lot of responsibilities for kids who go to school today for two shifts. Teachers earn less than cashiers in a grocery store and Anna Zalewska is responsible for this harmful action. This is the true face of your reforms: change of signboards, plaques, organizational patterns. And it is you, Minister, Prime Minister Morawiecki, who is responsible for this too. I'm sure you don't know anything about the army as a historian. Minister Macierewicz is a historian. Minister Błaszczak, another prominent historian in this government, also knew nothing about the army, because if he knew and looked at the map, then the military shipyard would have moved from Radom somewhere where there is a little more water. [[At least one word in substance.]] Your actions led, gentlemen of historians, to the collapse of the Polish army, to the reduction of the defensive potential of our country. You've wasted three years and billions of gold. This costly experiment of yours, the Territorial Defence Army, is also unsuccessful, and the real intentions of creating the Territorial Defence Army are unclear. Leaving the Territorial Defence Army under the special jurisdiction of the Minister of National Defence is also strange. We therefore make an amendment to the law which expressly prohibits the use of the Territorial Defence Army against Poles and Poles. If you have honest intentions and intentions towards our fellow countrymen, please support our amendment. We expect serious politicians to manage the state seriously. Today I urge myself on behalf of millions of Poles and Poles who are very concerned about what you are doing, so that you can find specialists, experts, military men made of flesh and blood and let them work calmly on the defence of our country. I'd like us to take care of things together and responsibly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The defense of our country. It is time for a serious and efficient debate, quick decisions and responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u221	Thank you. Would any of your fellow Members still like to join the list of people who want to ask a question at this point? I'll close the list after you. I would like to invite you to the speaker of the Civic Platform, asking the first question, Ms Joanna Frydrych. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u222	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, During the first reading of the Act, Minister Błaszczak said that the Polish Army should have one strong command, justifying why the head of the General Staff will supervise the General Commander and the operational commander of the Armed Forces. To my question concerning the reason for the exclusion from the chain of command in the Polish Army, the commander of the Territorial Defence Army, Minister Błaszczak, answered that there are people in the room who do not like the Territorial Defence Army. In this way of thinking, one can presume that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, without raising protesting uniform services, does not like policemen. The Minister of Health, without raising residents, nurses, doesn't like nurses, but that's not the point. Dear Minister, You may, in substance and in detail, answer why the Commander of the Territorial Defence Forces will be directly under the authority of the Minister of National Defence and will be at a level higher than the General Commander and the Operational Commander of the Armed Forces. Would you recommend our amendment involving the commander of the Territorial Defence Army under the supervision of the Chief of Staff? If not, please answer why. Please convince all persons who are asking for the exclusion of the Territorial Defence Army from the command structure in the Polish Army to the organizational scheme proposed by you by the Ministry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Otherwise, it may be presumed that the Territorial Defence Army is a private army of the Minister of National Defence, which is part of the pseudo-atriotic trend of political propaganda. Minister, I would like to make a substantive and concrete argument. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u223	Thank you. Anna Maria Siarkowska, the Law and Justice, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that today we are debating a change in the management and command system, because the introduction of its uniformity is one of the fundamental issues in order to allow for efficient command of the army both during peace and during the war. I'd like to point out one thing. She asked why the Territorial Defence Army is now under the authority of the Minister of National Defence and will be directly subject to it until it is formed and completed. This, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is a standard solution that can be observed in situations where types of Armed Forces are being created. It is worth recalling here, for example, the Great Britain. When special forces were formed in the United Kingdom, they were directly under the Prime Minister of Great Britain, Winston Churchill, until they were formed and completed. The creation of a new type of army is met with a great misunderstanding from the army and unfortunately also parts of the General Staff. We've seen how much the Territorial Defense Army has been under attack so far. I hope that the new Chief of Staff will also reorganize the General Staff when he takes up his duties in the new management and command system. I believe that this is a fundamental issue so that all these issues related to the management and command system can really achieve the desired effect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u225	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform, will ask another question at this point. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Following the big announcements of the PiS regarding changes in the management and command system, we actually have a change in two areas. The first concerns an increase in the competence of the head of the General Staff and this is a model that was in force in Poland during the period of the Polish People's Republic. You take responsibility for this. In our opinion, this will not improve the functionality of the command system in Poland. The second area is truly appalling, and it contradicts the logic of the unitary command, as you say, which is why you justify this change. Namely, it's the Territorial Defence Army. The creation of these troops was burdened with this political element, the stigma that marked their creation by Antoni Macierewicz. It seemed that with the change of direction, it would be possible to correct that in this respect we would achieve some normality. In this project, you propose to disable one of the types of troops, the Territorial Defence Army, beyond the general command system. It's gonna be nothing but damage. It's a political premise, you're just following a political one. You've made the Territorial Defense Army. political emotional element. This is fatal from the point of view of the Armed Forces and this is very bad from the point of view of our country's security. You're not able to form. [[♪ The bell ♪]] overcome this stigma of Antoni Macierewicz. We will never support private troops whose essence is political purpose, not the welfare of their homeland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u227	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u228	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Macierewicz destroyed the Polish army, led to ruin and chaos. Unfortunately, Minister Błaszczak perpetuates this condition. Someone seemed to have come to their senses, managed to change the pest, but unfortunately it wasn't going in the right direction. It has recently been reported that the number of soldiers has increased, but ladies and gentlemen, the strength and potential of today is decided not by the number of soldiers, but by the technological potential, and here, unfortunately, we have serious delays. Measures instead of technology go on the road, which means they don't improve our ability to use this technology, as colleagues have said here. Plus, you want to put in a command and command system that was current 30 and 40 years ago, then it worked out. This is confirmed by one of the messengers who said that Churchill was doing something there. Yeah, except it was half a century ago, Mrs. Messenger. Today, the situation is different. Territorial defence, the amateur special forces in this system of leadership and command are absolutely necessary, while their role you are expecting today is catastrophic. You lead people to loss. I have a question about this project. Now that there's some way [[♪ The bell ♪]] You admit your mistake because I'm reading some of the provisions of this bill, that someday they're gonna transfer these troops to central command, if you admit you're wrong, then why don't you fix it from start to finish, moving it into a unified chain of command? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u230	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Generals! I would much rather debate about modernization and change of technology in the Polish army, about what you enrich the Polish army, but we have a law that largely concerns staff changes. You are asking for a substantive debate and I would also like you to have one. Among the arguments for implementing this law, you mentioned that there would be a one-man responsibility, that there would be a faster response and that you would thus adapt our organizational structure to NATO solutions. Please answer the question, as long as the task is faster. Is the early separation of operations from strategies really bad enough to delay? And what exactly is delaying? If you say you're adapting this to NATO solutions, which NATO solutions? In which countries do such solutions really exist? And the WOT question. It was also at the committee meeting, surprisingly, on your part of the political scene, that the question was whether it really took 7 years to create a Territorial Defence Army and whether their subordinateship should be as it is today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u231	Thank you. I invite Mr Zbigniew Biernat, the Law and Justice, to the speaker, who will ask further questions. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] This is Mr Michał Jach, also the Law and Justice. Isn't there one? No, you're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Generals! Ladies and gentlemen, the law of opposition, the law of kaduk is criticism, even very harsh criticism, of the solutions proposed by the coalition, but certain words in this Chamber, I believe, should not fall. What forced me or inspired me to leave is the statement of Mr Bejda, who is not here, who said: Poles, you should be afraid. Ladies and gentlemen, PSL was the longest party in power, which as one of the coalitioners for the most years had its personal contribution to this progressing degrengolade of our Armed Forces since the beginning of the 1990s. If a member of this party comes out and says such words, then, Minister, what does it look like when, in the previous term, when the law that we are now trying to fix has been amended, one of the cardinal principles of NATO: force user - force provider, the one who trains, is in charge? This is where it was broken. For this reason, even the United States special forces wanted to break off training cooperation with our special forces. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, it is unacceptable for me to say such things, as we hear here from the PSL Member, in this Chamber. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u233	I ask you to answer this question and earlier questions of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Generals! Ladies and gentlemen! Several lines, explanations. The amendment of the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland is an amendment which is referred to as a small SKiD, which we are restoring normality in the Polish army today, we give the position and the position due to the head of the General Staff. Ladies and gentlemen! The change of the management and command system, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, introduced a lot of confusion and chaos, the lack of a coherent, uniform hierarchy as regards the Polish army, the Polish army, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the pervading competences, but worst of all, deprived the first soldier of the Republic of Poland, because it was the head of the General Staff who could be nominally the highest rank soldier, officer, four-star general... The role of the Chief of Staff in the reform of 2014 was brought only to the role of the auxiliary body of the Minister of National Defence, the auxiliary and advisory body of the Minister of National Defence, although he represented the Polish army, the Polish army in international fora, for example by attending meetings of the highest commanders of the North Atlantic Alliance countries. We are restoring normality to this law and we want the head of the General Staff to be the real manager of the Polish army, the Polish army, to be the real commander of the Polish army. Ladies and gentlemen! We are introducing such solutions in this law, but we also write down whether we believe that after 2 years we will evaluate those solutions which have been written in the law, so as to define, familiarize, present also here in Parliament, how the management and command system functions in the new version. And after these two years, we will be open to an in-depth, substantive discussion. I hope that you, too, today, as those who are in the opposition and so strongly criticize these solutions, will be tempted to have such an in-depth discussion. We in 2014 or earlier, as the reform of the management and command system was being prepared, talked about the shortcomings, many shortcomings of these solutions, and this was absolutely confirmed today from the perspective of time. Today we are making changes or today we are restoring normality in the Polish army. A few points that I would like to draw attention to, which have been raised by you or ladies and gentlemen of Members, a few things. The Member pointed out that he was referring to the number of generals who were expelled from the army. Let's operate with numbers, sir. On 31 December 2010, after the Smolensk catastrophe, 133 generals were in the Polish army. By the time you gave up power in 2015, these generals were only 85. During these few years, you have disposed of 50 generals as the ruler of the Polish army. It's only been going on for less than five years, four years with a piece. 50 generals. These are facts. Mr Bejda pointed to the education of successive national defence ministers: Minister Macierewicz and Minister Błaszczak. Does this mean that he also has accusations to serve as Minister of National Defence and later Chief of Armed Forces of the President of the Republic of Poland Bronisław Komorowski? After all, Bronisław Komorowski is also a historian by education. Mr Beida, he is also a historian by education. And let us remind you of the education of the predecessors of Minister Antoni Macierewicz. Minister Klich is a psychiatrist by education. Minister Siemoniak is a graduate of the foreign trade department. They were national defense ministers. Is a psychiatrist and a foreign trade graduate better here than historians? Absolutely not. [[Turns out he did.]] Absolutely not. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Frydrych asked why WOTs are subject to the Minister of National Defence. Member, this is the case today. [[That's what we know.]] It's deliberate, conscious action in creating a new kind of Armed Forces, and that's the thing. normal in practically every army in the world. 'Cause if in a minute, in one year, in two, maybe in three years we'll be creating, for example. Cybernetic troops, cyber-defense, they too will be the first to be subject to the Minister of National Defence until they are fully capable when they are fully formed. It's natural. And so it is also saved in the schedule. [[The schedule can be changed.]] Today these troops are under the authority of the Minister of National Defence, but there will be a day when they will be fully prepared, fully armed, and then the Minister of National Defence will decide to hand them over to the head of the General Staff. This is also written in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, and there is no discussion about it. This issue is repeatedly addressed at the meetings of the Committee on National Defence, as well as in discussions here, in Parliament, and we are absolutely not going to withdraw from it. I know and am aware that the creation of the Territorial Defence Army, which is a clear and great success of the Government of Law and Justice, a government of good change, is for you a salt in your eye. 'Cause you guys, for example. NSR-related activities failed, the idea of creating NSR was practically destroyed. Unfortunately, this has not worked out, today we cannot talk about the success of these actions. That's why give the Territorial Defence Army a chance to develop. These are not Macierevich' or Skurkiewicz's troops. [[The voice from the room: Skurkiewicz certainly not.]] These are the armies of the Republic of Poland. You have been completely confused by your order and hierarchy. These are the soldiers of the Republic of Poland. These are the armies of the Republic of Poland and serve the Republic. [[Applause]] And if, God forbid, there will be any threat, then they will also defend you, including you, you, and you. [[Think about what you're saying.]] And so is the Member. [[I'd rather they didn't defend me.]] It's your choice. Move to Moscow somewhere, you'll get it over with. Ladies and gentlemen! More questions about... [[That wasn't polite.]] Politics is not a game of politeness. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u235	It should be, Minister. She should. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: But I would very much ask the marshal to intervene on this side. [[He insults and asks for intervention.]] [[Voice from the room: Apologize.]] Proceed, Minister, and gentlemen, please remain calm. Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: Ladies and gentlemen! Once again I repeat: If, God forbid, there will be such a situation and this possibility, they will also defend you, us, all Poles, also you. [[Voice from the room: you, us.]] Us, all Poles, also you. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Suchoń... Mr President, this is normal and natural. Today the Minister of National Defence is under the command of the Military Gendarmerie, the Minister also has the Command of the Garrison of Warsaw and there is absolutely no problem with it. It's gonna stay that way. It's going to be a flow, it's going to be a transitional situation. At the moment of achieving full combat and operational capabilities, the Minister of National Defence shall decide: Yes, they are ready, they are formed throughout the country, they shall become a subordinate to the Head of the General Staff. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not true that they will be created for 7 years. They will be created much less, only this time of capacity will reach a maximum of 7 years. And I was not accidentally also saying at the meeting of the Committee on National Defence that we are giving ourselves this limited time, it is about the turn of 2024 and 2025, in which we expect them to be fully capable of fighting, and then the Minister will be able to make a decision on this matter. One more comment on the amendments. The amendments of the Platform and the Polish People's Party, I understand, will be discussed at the committee meeting, but I have the overwhelming impression that this amendment of the Polish People's Party shows that it is still mentally in the PRL era. I wanted to read you this amendment. The Members' Club proposes to make a record that the Territorial Defence Forces cannot be used against Polish citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, it's art. 26 of the Constitution clearly states in which situations the military can be used for what they are used. And such a record is a mental return to the period of the PRL, to the period of martial law. [[Applause]] No army, no Territorial Defence, no Land Army, no Special Forces, can be used against citizens. [[And the police are already used that way.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What are we discussing here today? They can't and they can't. And let's not go back, I repeat, let's not go back to the PRL, to the solutions that were in the PRL. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[A rational response to threats on your part.]] The committee rapporteur, Mr Rafał Weber, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u236	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! I have also received these amendments, which have been tabled by parliamentary clubs, and I will say this: the amendments of the Platform club will of course be examined at the committee meeting. [[It is not known whether you will be rapporteur.]] [[It's next time.]] Of course, there's a dispute between us about who's supposed to oversee the Territorial Defense Army. On the other hand, I will refer to the amendment of the club of the Polish People's Party. She's on one side... [[Sir, this is the wrong mode.]] ...funny, but scary on the other hand. Minister Skurkiewicz explained why it is ridiculous, but it is horrible, because if, hypothetically, she was... [[Voice from the Chamber: Report, please.]] ...by a high committee voted out, it would mean no less, no more than that operating forces could be used against the Polish people. So that these PSL drives are really very dangerous here. And I would advise you to make such a statement in the hospital room, not in plenary, unless they could help him in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Call the marshal so the nurses don't strike.]] [[This gentleman is an envoy?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u237	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are investigating a government proposal to amend the Act on the Office of the Minister of National Defence and the Act on the universal obligation to defend the Republic of Poland. In a moment, you Members of the Parliament will obediently vote on this bill. But I'm afraid it's going to be reckless, based on the texting instructions. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club, I will briefly tell you about this project. First of all, I will use the Roman couple again: if you want peace, get ready for war. In this spirit, let us look at the justification of the bill. In the introduction, the applicant writes about the particular role played by the presence of allied troops, especially US troops, in Poland, which, in conjunction with the process of strengthening the eastern NATO flank, according to the applicant, created the need to improve the management and command system of the Armed Forces. Do you remember the special role played by the presence of allies, especially Soviet troops, in Poland in 1945 and 1989? At that time, the system of leadership and command of the Armed Forces was so improved that one person autonomously decided about the fundamentals for the security of Poland. This person, like an absolute ruler, was responsible for his decisions only before God. Today, in the justification of the project, we read that the current solution of the command system, e.g. The combination of strategic and operational levels in the national chain of command is not compatible with NATO and most countries of the alliance. For the inconspicuous explanation: now the function of commanders of types of Armed Forces is carried out together by the general commander of types of Armed Forces and the operational commander of types of Armed Forces, while the head of the General Staff of the Polish Army acts as the auxiliary body of the Minister of National Defence during the peace and role of the auxiliary body of the President of the Republic of Poland during the war. The project that is being processed today is overturning this four-year-old order. It extends the role of Chief of the General Staff of the Polish Army to the command authority of the entire Armed Forces. According to the project, the Chief of Staff is directly under the command of the Minister of National Defence, and the Armed Forces is in charge of command of the types of Armed Forces: Commander of the Land Forces, Commander of the Air Force, Commander of the Navy and Commander of the Special Forces. This amendment means that at the head of the Armed Forces, the Chief of Staff under the Minister's authority, and under it there will be four commanders of the Armed Forces who will probably do all the substantive work. Instead of two commanders, the army will be headed by a chief of staff supported by four commanders. Does such a five-man command and control system of the Armed Forces seem to you to be improved? The applicant stresses the need to model our command system on other countries' systems, focusing primarily on the US system. Dear country, the United States has more than 9 million km2 of land, with more than 320 million citizens living there. The United States is the world's military and political superpower, primarily responsible for the safety of our world. The fact that a country like the United States has one and not another command system of an army is due to the peculiarities of that country and its position. But does that mean that we should blindly copy their solutions? Good solutions for Washington need not be good solutions for Warsaw. What else do you want to pick up from our allies and unify? Why don't we put the Polish Army in Bundeswehr uniforms? After all, in Germany they apply and they work. You want peace, get ready for war. How are we supposed to prepare for war when we are discussing laws making further changes to the Armed Forces over and over again? Any change in such a sensitive area as national defence and security should be preceded by analyses, expert debates and should be carried out calmly, without haste. The Sejm should already have complete and complete projects. Instead, we serve the army endless legislative diarrhea. That's the tenth amendment of this law. Tenth since November 2015. Every four months, we shake the Armed Forces. How do you think this translates into Poland's security and trust in our allies? Do you think it is more important to change the chain of command in order to increase our defence capabilities because they are in NATO countries that have it differently than we do? So what? This structure was adopted by Poland four years ago. For four years our allies have known her and worked with her. We did the Anaconda 2016 exercises together. Why change what works? As in the case of junior high schools, introduce a law that will only cause chaos, because of an ideological whim... Let's move on to the last issue, the Territorial Defense Army. The Commission accepted two amendments. It has been stated that the Minister of National Defence directs the Territorial Defence Forces until they are fully able to act, and that this moment is to determine the Minister of National Defence by way of an order. I can't understand the substance of this idea. I have come across the opinion that this is to prevent the introduction of chaos into still organizing territorial defence units, which are supposed to be organized for seven more years. I understand that chaos belongs only to fully organized units of the Armed Forces, but such a translation does not dispel the remaining doubts. How is it that, with the aim of better organisation of the Polish Armed Forces, on the one hand, we want to simplify the decision-making system by transferring full competence to the Chief of General Staff, and on the other hand we do a rip in it leaving the Territorial Defence Army in the hands of the Minister? Such action is an indication that WOT is actually a private minister's army. Why won't you transfer military control to the army? Are you afraid that this is how an Antoni Macierewicz's body will fall out of the closet? As the name suggests, the Territorial Defence Army is a military and should be subordinate to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland, who have knowledge and skills that allow effective management, not politicians and their political games.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u239	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on National Defence in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft Act on Employee Capital Plans (Prints No. 2811 and 2824). Mr Jarosław Krajewski will present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance a report on the Government's draft Act on Employee Capital Plans. The Public Finance Commission considered the draft law at its meetings on 25 and 26 September 2018. The idea of employee capital plans is to introduce the first universal, voluntary and private savings system with solidarity between employees, employers and the state. In 10 years, the country will spend more than PLN 30 billion on contributions to the private accounts of Poles in PPK. It is worth noting that during the work of the committee there was an issue which, I think, should also be clarified here in the High House. In the course of the discussion, questions were raised about the privacy of the measures. It is worth to say that the private funds collected in the PPK were guaranteed as such in the draft law. According to Art. 3 PPK law funds collected in PPK constitute the participant's private property, which we can describe as a super-secure investment for the future. We know that the programme, the Act on Employee Capital Plans, is designed to provide additional savings for future pensioners after the age of 60. Then all the funds collected will be available. It is worth pointing out once again that these funds collected in the PPK will be private and inherited funds. As regards the work of the committee, a number of amendments were adopted. Most of these were legislative amendments aimed at clarifying the provisions contained in the original draft, and there were some editorial amendments. It is worth pointing out one of the amendments adopted by the committee - it is about allowing companies in the capital groups to join the PPK within the time limit when the largest company in the group joins the PPK. The Commission also accepted the amendment tabled by the opposition, by the Member of the Modern Club, which aims to extend the catalogue of medical units diagnosed with cancer in the child. This is intended to ensure that the funds paid into the PPK can be used in the event of a serious illness of the child. As regards the key elements of the bill, it is also worth mentioning that there was no objection to the adoption of the article. 134, which clearly indicates the dates of accession of the employment entities to the PPK. From 1 July 2019 entities employing at least 250 people will be able to join the PPK, from 1 January 2020 entities employing at least 50 people. As far as the next deadline is concerned, from 1 July 2020 entities employing at least 20 people will be able to join the PPK. The last date, 1 January 2021, is the date of accession to the PPK of other employment entities and units of the public finance sector. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I request that this draft be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u241	Thank you very much. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I would like to make a formal request.]] Please, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u242	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to request a recess so that your marshal would call the rapporteur back to order. Mr Jarosław Krajewski, standing on this speaker, said that the PPK is a super-secure place for the future, and we know well that through the employees' capital plans people will be able to invest funds... [[But it's not a formal application, it's a club appearance.]] ...in various financial instruments, with different levels of risk. Talking about such products as being a super-secure investment in the future, as rapporteur for the Committee on Public Finance and reporting on what was happening in the committee, is a very large abuse on your part, Mr President. If you do not withdraw from these words at this moment, I will be forced to sue you to the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union, because by explicitly using the mandate of the Member and the role of the rapporteur of the committee, you are misleading the citizens. Then it ends so that some people do not distinguish between the levels of risk of individual financial instruments and we have such issues as the GetBack case. Please withdraw from those irresponsible words that you have spoken from this Seymary. [[That's ridiculous.]] The PPK cannot be called a super-secure investment for the future, because investment fund associations will be able to put this money of citizens in very different instruments in the capital market. It is important to be responsible and to inform citizens of the real level of risk. So that, sir, I ask for a corrigendum or I will refer the matter to the Parliament's ethics committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u243	Thank you, Commissioner, but in my view this was not a formal proposal. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just now my excellent younger colleague Jarosław Krajewski presented his report. I think he introduced it synthetically. I am a little moved by the harsh reaction of one of my fellow Members, Mrs Hennig-Kloski, who has responded terribly to the words perhaps exaggerated. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Perhaps?]] Maybe. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's look back. That is the convention of my brief speech. The issue of additional ways of saving for retirement has a history. Here you go: 1999, employee programmes. Colleagues from the Platform and from the PSL, for which we can be grateful, tried to address these issues by drawing up programs: IKE and We have experiential experiences from these things. Unfortunately, these programs, to put it graphically, did not capture, did not become common. These were assumptions and intentions, very noble intentions. If we look in terms of free market and capital... Unless we're saving up in the most primitive, simple way. What's my point? Such programs, if we have no way of placing, waking up the economy, investing and looking for more profits... After all, all the programs had a similar quality. From this point of view, what we are proposing today, consumes these experiences, is an improved, improved version, and the risk - which cannot be eliminated, my dear ones - is a risk less. Safety is greater. That's right thinking, conclusion. We have specific records that are meant to minimize this risk, not eliminate it. We're not that naive and stupid. [[Sure.]] I invite you to work at the stage of the Upper House, the Senate, where we will work on this. This is a step forward. The great flaw of this law - time runs, I have to hurry - was that it does not include a certain sensitive and important group that we care about very much, so self-employed: those who are really self-employed and those who are self-employed out of compulsion. For them, we propose a change: raising the deposit limit. For them, for those who do not include aid which is included in this Act. Really, we're asking for a strict but fair assessment. This assessment cannot be as devastating as it would have been from a colleague. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Did I say, Mr, not really, in what I said?]] [[You said you were scaring me.]] I don't run polemics. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to say what's getting attention in this bill, and it's undoubtedly... Young listeners, I greet you warmly. [[Applause]] For them is this law, for they shall be grown-up. What's better? This bill - I have it written and it can be defended publicly in any discussion - is undoubtedly more secure and secures this money, private money. This entry is like a seal, so there's no history from the past. Stay away from that money. This is employee money... [[Constitution.]] ...and this is private money. That's what they are, and they'll be here to the end. So the security of deposits - once. Two-- management fees. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Interrupting my speech is proof that I speak well and speak truly, unfortunately. [[Applause]] Hit the table and the scissors will talk. Management fees, ladies and gentlemen. But there will be no more rackets, five, seven, ten, hundreds of millions stolen from those who were then... I remember that time, I was here myself, in this room. We've learned from it. Thank you, Minister, that the bill's records limit this, and that robbery will be gone. [[Applause]] Finally, flexibility, i.e. the possibility of using this money, especially in situations of chance. It's a very humane record. There are also records that may be difficult, and we will work on that. If anyone tries to raise a hand on this, they'll be caught and punished. So it's even a criminal record so there's no use of position to limit workers' ability to live better in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u245	Thank you. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u246	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It's easy to be brave when you risk other people's money. Indeed, such courage costs nothing. I subscribe to Mrs Hennig-Kloski's words. I even asked the rapporteur to read the bill, but he resented me. And then there's that effect when we talk about things that we don't know about. The investment policy of the defined-date funds, Mr President, is so thought that a participant in the Working Capital Plans, if he wishes, can actually invest 80% all the time in saving. its funds in the shallow and small Stock Exchange in Warsaw. Do you think it's safe? Well, congratulations. Tell the minister to say it again. Why are we against the Employee Capital Plans Act? Because employee Capital Plans are really acronym words: PiS needs cash, needs capital to revive investments that have been at the lowest level for 25 years, because private investors fear you, fear party courts, fear the oppressive fiscals, fear the laws that you create at night and change dozens of times. That's why you need the private money you're trying to channel to the capital market. We're against this bill because the employers... [[A voice from the room: We'll do the wrong thing that you won't do.]] ...who do not sign a contract for running the PPK with a financial institution can be punished with a penalty of up to PLN 1 million. We are against this law because there is no guarantee for the capital of the PPK participants, contrary to what the rapporteur has provided here, but the managers are guaranteed profits. We are against it because the participant can apply for payment after the age of 60, but will not receive any life pension. You know, sir, what that means is that the 60-year-old woman you retired will be able to pay her capital in 120 instalments... [[We didn't send her. She's going on her own.]] ...that is, as a 70-year-old, she will be left without the means to live again, and she will live 83 years, or maybe 90 years, and then she will need that money: medicine, health care. That's what you're giving to the Poles. That's the project you've prepared. [[Make an amendment.]] We are against it because Employee Capital Plans is also another tribute that entrepreneurs will be forced to bear. Since January 2019 you have abolished 30 times, introduced a fee in the PPK, introduced new administrative burdens for the entrepreneur. In the third year of application, you want to introduce, actually, why with a three-year delay, all the employees of the budget sphere. And this will be a burden on the state budget, as you write in the OSR, almost PLN 4 billion. But that's not true, because every unit in the sector is going to be an employer. So it's definitely going to be even higher costs, and President Boris says it's not going to increase the debt at all. If we have debt today, how will it not increase the sector's budget deficit of almost 30 billion? We are against it because the Financial Supervision Commission will supervise the PPK. Maybe some of you were on a committee called up on the basis of an article yesterday. 152, where KNF president asked about the GetBack scandal said he couldn't do anything. Well, then how can he not do anything? What right do you want to transfer people's capital, people's private money to the financial market? [[He said there wasn't much he could do.]] There's not much he can do. Good. Yeah, it's absolutely different. That's when these drugs are very safe. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[There's a huge difference between a few...]] The Congress in Podkarpacie did not help, where Prime Minister Morawiecki asked entrepreneurs to invest. The constitution for business, after which the entrepreneur's life was to become light, easy and pleasant, was not helped, because everything that was not forbidden was to be allowed. Prime Minister Morawiecki forgot that the constitution guarantees this to every citizen. But Minister Banaś disagrees and won with Moravian. Turns out the entrepreneur thinks he can, and in a moment he can't. Because these entrepreneurs don't trust you, they don't believe you, and the fact that they don't believe Prime Minister Moravian is probably for everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, Prime Minister Morawiecki decided...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u247	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u248	Marshal, I'm almost done. I'll finish my sentence. ...to outsmart them, and that's why he's gonna take their resources by force, just like the Bolsheviks used to... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...they took the crops. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u249	Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Długi from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, of course, will traditionally not be involved in this clan game of yours, but I cannot fail to take part in the discussion on this subject, and this discussion is not so easy at all. It would be easy if it were a question. It's just a party game. However, I would like to draw attention to two circumstances where all should light red lights. The first is that the Prime Minister's idea has the full support of Mr Petru. Well, then you should think about it. [[How do you know?]] ...what's really going on here, you should think about who's really going to get on it. The second problem - and this one is much more serious and less joking - is that the state should take care of us as a society so that every citizen can increase their savings in order to make savings at all. If you think this is a way to increase your savings, you're wrong. 'Cause you guys are actually taxing. In order for savings to be made, it is necessary to remove tax from savings, not to add another tax, which is not, as some believe, just an additional burden on employers. As we look closely at this, this is also a quasi-tax burden on workers. This is the creation of a new financial structure that will not revive our stock market. This does not result from anything, and above all it is burdened with history. This is burdened with the history of OFE. It just can't be washed. You have written down in the bill that this money is private. This can be written in the draft law, e.g. We have things written down in the Constitutional Act, but this is a matter of debate. [[In the case of OFE, this was not enough.]] Right now, we're in a situation where you want to tax your employees, you want to tax your employers, you want to send money to financial institutions to have something to play with. Let's see what happens. These young people aren't here anymore. Glory be to God, for they would hear that they would pay off all this, that their children would pay off all this. That's the truth. [[Voluntaryly.]] [[There's no prosperity.]] It's not voluntary. There's a pretend voluntaryity here. I have to say, voluntarily every two years, I don't want to. I don't know what's gonna happen if someone really doesn't want to. [[Applause]] [[No, four years from now, you're gonna be dragged in.]] Why don't you let people organize themselves and organize their savings? Then I'm sure it'll be private. According to the bill, it's not really private. You say yourself that if someone wants to withdraw at some point, then this portion paid by the Treasury, paid in quotes, will, of course, be taken away. Let us support savings, but let us not support them in a rogue way. Sorry about the strong word, but maybe it's not in place. Savings should be supported by enabling them not to be taxed. Then people will do it themselves. At the workplace, the trade unions will do it themselves, just let them do it. They're gonna go public on their own, that's all they're waiting for. They have to be helped. The workers will do it themselves. So far, you have tried to create new financial organisations that will create new, different, very ambitious financiers who will place this money somewhere in one way or another, more or less safe, Member. In other words, let us return to the basic principles of the rule. Let's let everyone save money. Let's stop harassing the one who's saving. Let's take off some Belka and others taxes, because really savings can build our country. That's where we agree. I know you know that, too. I hope that this will allow you to look at these employee capital programs as part of the game of the financial community, not as part of the workforce. I would very much like the savings to be supported by the state, but in such a way that you simply do not interfere. We citizens will be perfectly able to handle this. We'll save up under the pillow if we can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u251	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I'll get back to the subject that came out on the stand. Speaking of employee capital plans as a super-secure asset for the future, we are not really talking and misleading citizens, because we have to take into account that a large part of this money can be invested in stock stocks on the stock exchange. As a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, the Member should be aware of this. [[Don't lie to me.]] [[These aren't deposits.]] What you're saying is what the vendors told the people buying GetBack bonds. They said they were buying super-secure financial instruments at the risk level of a near-placer. That's what you said, sir. I'm the one who wrote it down. Listen to what you said. [[Take it easy.]] This isn't a super safe place for the future. In this way, if such abuse and such irresponsibleness are allowed by the rapporteur in the case of such a law, we will never build an economic awareness of the citizens. [[Applause]] This awareness must first be acquired by the Members of the PiS. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the law itself, we do not change the sentence. As far as most of the issues that I raised were concerned, which I spoke of earlier in this pulpit, it is still in this bill. Namely, you still haven't embraced the self-employed. What you're talking about won't give them back what they're losing if they can't get into employee capital plans. In the case of this change at this stage, I would have to make a lot of amendments. I'm making four more amendments. Firstly, the elimination of the privileged position of trade unions in relation to the representation of non-associated workers. There's a verdict. TK in this case of 1 July 2008, which says that such records are non-constitutional. Different mechanisms for workers, where trade unions are and where they are not, cannot be introduced in different ways. In general, this is how we take a representative group of employees' representatives to make key decisions in this programme. That is why our amendment will be tabled, which will be a differentiation, Minister, to eliminate. It will only introduce this solution, which will allow employees chosen according to adopted rules in the company to include, decide together with the employer how to manage the capital raised by the employees. We are also introducing an amendment reducing the penalties for entrepreneurs, because they are absurd. That's what we talked about at the committee meeting. The rapporteur did not say that. For example, the Labour Code provides for a penalty of up to 30,000. zł, and you propose a penalty of up to 1.5% annual salary budget, up to PLN 1 million, for lack of documentation on PPK. Next - late payment of ZUS contributions. According to Art. The 98th Social Insurance Act provides for a sanction of up to 5 thousand. zł, and you want to impose penalties up to 1 million zł in the case of the third pillar. We cannot do so that for not paying basic pension contributions, i.e. contributions to the Social Security Office, there is a penalty that is somewhat lower than the additional third pillar. These must be normal priorities in the fees of each entrepreneur. We are also making an amendment that shifts deadlines for private employers and for the public finance sector, which I have already raised here. It cannot be that you lay down different terms of play for private employers and for state employers, because this is unequal treatment of economic operators operating on the market or of state administration vis-à-vis private employers. First of all, we want private employers to give a full financial year to prepare themselves for new additional contributions, and to really... Today, in many companies, budgets for next year are already defined and often calculated on the basis of contracts and orders already concluded, so it is often impossible to make additional contributions from these budgets, affecting the company's profitability negative or positive. In this situation, we believe that private companies should be given a year to develop this money in their budgets, and the administration in turn should enter the system faster, about when large companies enter, because in turn administrative staff [[♪ The bell ♪]] public deserve the same rights as private sector workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u253	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill on which we are debating creates a legal framework for the functioning of a universal and voluntary system of savings intended to secure financial needs after reaching 60 years of age, and for this reason the project deserves attention, all the more so because households in Poland have an exceptionally low rate of savings compared to other countries of the European Union. For these reasons, it is really necessary and deliberate to seek solutions to improve the situation, but I have huge, serious doubts as to whether the way forward proposed by the government is right. The government in the explanatory memorandum of this project points out the very high objectives set out in the Responsible Development Strategy, including: The increase in savings rates, the financing of investments from domestic sources, i.e. money, increased financial security of Poles and the development of the local capital market. Unfortunately, the project in its construction, in fulfilling basically the general objectives set, will in an unacceptable way burden employers, entrepreneurs as well as employees themselves. Recalling the provisions of the project: the accumulated capital will come from voluntary employee contributions. The question is whether this will be possible under conditions of generally low wages of Poles. Would it not be so that an employee, even wishing to save money, would ask his employer to increase his salary? This seems to be the natural behavior of almost every employee. As a result, the first part of the contribution will actually be at the expense of the employer. The second part of the contribution in the project is to come directly from the employer as a basic and additional contribution from the employer. The third part of the contribution in the form of a welcome payment and an annual payment will come from the Labour Fund, i.e. also from the funds from employers, so this bill is almost a further burden on employers, entrepreneurs. A lot of controversy was raised by art. The 7th project, which imposes huge obligations on employers to select a financial institution with which the PPK management agreement will be concluded. The question remains whether any employer will be able to predict and ensure that the financial institution to which he decides to transfer the accumulated staff capital... Although the government provided the institution with the designation of the Polish Development Fund, which places funds in investment funds, but unfortunately does not give any guarantees for proper development or what private money. The bill is a very comprehensive document, written in a vague and complex way. Despite the numerous drafting and legislative amendments, there are great opportunities for different interpretations. In the course of the work of the Committee on Public Finance, nine substantive amendments were made by Members of the Law and Justice, who were in fact self-correcting by the government. The numerous substantive changes suggested by the social side - very numerous - and even by the Financial Supervision Commission - have unfortunately not been accepted by the government and the members of the committees, i.e. Members of Law and Justice. The same has happened to the amendment of the Members' Group on greater transparency. This is about the frequency of the presentation of information, the report on the functioning of funds raising labour capital - every 2 years. There was an amendment, but unfortunately the votes of the PiS members were rejected. To sum up, the project raises huge doubts, risks for PPK participants, and the biggest burden, the increase in operating costs concerns entrepreneurs, i.e. the group that determines the position of our economy, the economic development of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u255	Thank you. Mr Richard Petru, Circle of Liberal and Social Members, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u256	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, I would like to say that this initiative is needed. All over Europe, people save as follows: they contribute to the state system, which is a redistribution system, and we also have a capital pillar. And that's point one. The second point is that after what happened with OFE, i.e. After the jump made by the Platform - and you also voted on it - there is a lack of confidence of Poles in the sustainability of such a system, to save capital. I think that's the fundamental problem we're going to be dealing with. Poles do not believe that such a system can last for many years. And here we would need a political consensus, because we're not really doing the pension system for 5, 10 years, just for a very long time, 50 or 100 years. To be honest, I would like to support this programme, but I see a few flaws and I would ask for an exact answer to the question of why such solutions, which I will say, cannot be introduced. The first thing and fundamental - and you will say what are the political risks involved - is that this scheme does not provide for a survivor's pension, i.e. the possibility of paying a pension until the last days of life. What is the main political risk? This is the risk of what you are doing, namely that in a few years people will have some savings collected, there will be another Rostowski Jacek or someone like him and he will say: Listen, just before the election I will change this pension scheme into a normal investment program and you can pay yourself this money not in the form of retirement, but in the form of cash. Suppose this happens in ten years. And you see, this is a serious problem, because this system of amendment makes it possible. Moreover, it will not be possible to introduce a record of life pensions after the adoption of this law, because it will change the rules of the game and according to the constitution or the rules of the law it is not possible to worsen the situation of participants. So this is the first fundamental problem - not only that it lacks this form of payout, because, as a rule, retirement should be a retirement, but it causes a huge political risk such that someone, in a different way than Jacek Rostowski and the Civic Platform, will not put a hand on these savings as much as it will give people the opportunity to pay out this money just before the election. And you know very well how people can be encouraged to vote for themselves by paying in one way or another. That's the first line. The second is that this program will not really include poor people. I mean, they won't be able to pay out of their own money to the employer's contribution. You don't address it in any way. Therefore, let us be aware that this is for the middle-class and wealthy. A person who really is unable to save, who is unable to function until the first one, will not be able to collect a monthly contribution that will be very high for her. Third, of course, this program, which is important... Mr Cymanski pointed to young people. Mr President, most of them will not work in companies. There are World Bank reports - now there are work in the European Commission - how work will change. We will work less and less as part of employment, and we will work more and more as part of self-employment. The work model's changing. This is the world trend, we can agree with it or not. And let us be aware that programmes must be created for those who will not be employees within the meaning that they are employed, that there is an employer. That's another line. I called and proposed that the employer's contribution be paid from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. It would just give you the opportunity to survive companies that have worse financial results. Of course, this program will support the Stock Exchange, which is barely alive after a paw was placed on OFE, but the investment policy enshrined in this Act is very restrictive. Of course, it has these advantages that it is relatively safe, but the disadvantages such that PPK money may not be a form of raising capital for small and medium-sized companies. This is not good, because remember that Polish companies cannot raise capital on global markets, they can only gain capital in Poland. The stock market used to be a place like this. After the Getback event - which needs to be explained very thoroughly, I think we will need a parliament committee, probably in the future parliament - now companies will not be able to issue bonds because no one believes in bonds. Bottom line. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a program we need. I believe that these changes I am talking about are fundamental and are not political, but technical. If they were introduced, I would be willing to support such a programme. Without these changes, I will be forced to abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u257	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of your parliamentarians like to join the list? You're welcome, sir. I don't see any more volunteers. I'm closing the list. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, will ask you as the first question. One minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Once again, I want to go back to what the rapporteur said: that this is not a super-secure place for the future. First, you have to talk about certain concepts, and you have to know about them. Question to the Minister: Why, without ensuring a decent return on the money raised in employee capital plans, do you want to do your first review in 3 years? It is not true that if the opposition amends to make it quicker, you accept it. Why is there no state support if this is such a great product for saving for young people, but also for all other Poles? The state of the budgetary sphere is taken into account at the very end - teachers, local staff at the very end. And why do you charge so much? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Loading... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u259	Thank you, Member. The question is asked by Mr Józef Leśniak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland, there is one of the lowest levels of citizens' savings for pension purposes. This is the result of long-term negligence, including previous PO-PSL governments. I think that every responsible politician sees the need for an efficient and universal savings collection system. We all remember perfectly how the disastrous policy of debt of the state was responsible for 153 billion PLN... [[That's not true!]] ...the savings of Poles and Poles, we remember Donald Tusk's outrageous statement, who said that this money did not belong to Poles. I have a question for the Minister and the rapporteur: How will the Poles' funds be secured under the PPK programme, so that the security of investment in the future and the guarantee of obtaining the years of work gathered [[♪ The bell ♪]] Measures? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u261	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a person who had previously carried on an economic activity, I would like to ask about plans for employers, about the possibility of applying reductions and about opportunities created for them in the draft of this law. But I would also like to ask, in connection with this amazing voice from the opposition, which we have heard, that the State is not to support this project, whether it is true or not, whether it will be a welcome payment or not, whether it will be an annual payment from the State or not, because this is important information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u263	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u264	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask a technical question for the sake of the participants in the PPK programme. The legislator envisaged the creation of an Internet Information Portal which would require complex, advanced IT systems and thus would generate specific costs. Question: "Will the Polish Development Fund secure the financing of this instrument of communication and information for participants, or will the creation of this information system charge participants of this system?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u265	The question is asked by Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! PPK is a completely different system than OFE. It is safe, there are private measures, which is clearly enshrined in the Act, which was also a very intense discussion. The opposition opposed to writing down that the funds were private property. I also reminded at the committee meeting the former Prime Minister Donald Tusk about the liquidation of practically OFE when it was taken - some say: 152 billion Poles were stolen. That's when the opposition nation applauded, right? You were applauding because this system was too expensive, so said Prime Minister Tusk, and it wasn't private money. As regards costs for PPK, only an asset management fee which may be up to 0.6% will be charged Net assets per year. Question to the Minister: Has it been secured? [[♪ The bell ♪]] PPK participants... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to avoid the situation in the OFE case?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u267	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Marcin Święcicki a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Saying that this program is safe is just cheating and fooling people. There will be private contributions, private payments and personal losses, ladies and gentlemen. The main place to invest this money is WIG20. I checked that the WIG20 ratings for the last 10 years have dropped by 4%. When we add 15% inflation to that, we have minus 20%. And you said in your explanatory statement that it would be 3.5%. above inflation, i.e. inflation over recent years will be 15% plus 3.5% for 10 years of the premium period, i.e. 40% That's about 60% on the plus side. WIG shows a loss of 20% over the last 10 years, you say there will be a profit of 60% For the last 10 years, and that's what you're building security on. It's just cheating people. Private contributions, private payments and personal losses can be from this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u269	I would like to ask Mr Marcin Porzuck, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Question to the Minister and the rapporteur: What is the long-term impact of the PPK on the economy planned? What are the benefits of joining the PPK for the employee? That's a fundamental question. What will it look like to invest these funds safely? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u271	Thank you. The question is asked by Marek Owa, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will remind you of the words of Mr Cymanski, who said that also in previous projects the assumptions were always optimistic and that it would bring benefits. It must be said that the perspective is unfortunately very much verifying this. I would like to say that this is a super-secure deposit, which is said in 20 years' time when the implementation of this programme will be effective. Because today we have doubts whether it is also a desperate attempt to look for funds for investment, or if. such a programme operated last year, whether these funds would not be invested e.g. in GetBack bonds, whether in the future these funds would not be invested e.g. in the construction of a central port, railway networks, ports. Because you make a start-up profitability of 4,6% It's not that hard, it's gonna be great in these scenarios, but the finale could be much worse. I fully share the words of Mr Święcicki, who said that optimism... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... It will be government, but the loss will be on the part of the participants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u273	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u274	High Seym! They just said from this speaker that the Prime Minister would take the Bolshevik system. Look who's talking. After all, it is your government, the Civic Platform, that took the citizens' savings from the OFE. It is you who must be afraid that if you win, do not give God, once again elections, you will reach into the pockets of Poles again. My question is, what countries are we modeling on when we propose this system? What popularity have such capital schemes achieved in other countries? How does the government intend to encourage workers to join this programme? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The government's gonna do it in two years. The first one should be in the system.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u275	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Biernat, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We know that almost 18% Poles are self-employed. This is the third place in Poland and those self-employed will arrive. Hence my question. Many times here it sounded that self-employed people are not covered by the PPK at all. And my second question is, is there a guaranteed way of paying? We know that, with the OFE in that programme, the payout issues were not settled and then it woke up. It's a lot of controversy, a lot of problems. Is there a strict way of payment, payment guarantees for those who join the PPK? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u277	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club. [[Dear Marshal, I submit a formal application in accordance with the article...]] [[No, it's outrageous what you're doing. It's ridiculous what you're doing.]] I have not given you the floor, Madam Member. Please leave the podium. Please leave the speaker, Madame. Member, I call you to order. I said I'd check the rules. [[It's just a shame.]] [[According to Art. 184 point 3a... you didn't allow me to file a formal application. Your marshal, you violated the rules...]] Don't argue with me. Just leave the stand. Ladies and gentlemen, take 10 minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 51 hrs. 14 min 59]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 23 of the agenda. I ask you to ask Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u278	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The situation of the ZUS is dramatic. Lowering the retirement age and an ageing population means that this system will not lift the commitments it has. So that I am glad that you are noticing this problem and are trying to solve it in some way. Besides, you've partly caused this problem yourself, reducing the retirement age. But I will appeal to you to see the self-employed. You expect them to make contributions to the funds, and you don't take them into account at all on the payout side, so you clearly define them on the side: guilty, and you don't see them on the side: I do. I regret that. These are 3 million people who work really hard. And the question is, is it true that the money for the initial payment, as well as the annual payment will come from the Labour Fund, i.e. really from the state fund, just [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the contributions of hard-working Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u279	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u280	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Another Members of the Law and Justice say that this is a super-secure saving system. It's like reducing the retirement age of Poles and Poles, Law and Justice hid information that pensions would be hungry for it. And that's what I'm talking about. Mr Krajewski said so. [[I didn't say that.]] I would ask you to explain to me what instruments and the proportions in which they can be invested and whether all these instruments guarantee supersecurity, Mr President. On the other hand, I have a question of why the Law and Justice Government would like to announce further privileges of the union bourgeoisie as regards the choice of the societies to be planned. After all, some of these organizations are so absolutely non-transparable that they just wait until some shady business comes along, and these pension funds will be lost, and pensioners will be left with nothing, not to mention having economic knowledge. Why do you want to discriminate against those who do not belong to the union, while very often in companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's most of the employees? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u281	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u282	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for the Minister: what is it with this system, with these statements? If it is true, if it is accepted by many parties that this system is dangerous, dangerous and scandalously secure, is it possible to think, and if so, what can it be said that those groups which so claim, moreover, make amendments to an extremely toxic and dangerous solution, may vote for or abstain from voting on the project? 'Cause that's what it looks like. When the rehearsal comes, we'll see if that happens. That's one question. And two: Is it possible to think about increasing the aid? That's interesting. 3 million times 240 PLN is 720 million, that's 1 billion, but actually by examining the balance sheet... [[But fair enough.]] Yeah, something's going on. We can see the problem, but there's not a lot of money ever. It is possible to think whether in the course of work or even in the future you cannot look for a solution for the weaker ones, because here this imbalance [[♪ The bell ♪]] But there is. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u283	Thank you. We've exhausted the questioning formula. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u284	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! One of the first questions I noted was why it was not possible to pay them as a life pension. We think it's art. 99. 7 precisely states that this is the possibility. I think this doubt is already dispelled in the bill. It was also a question of why it does not include the poorest. Please note that during the public consultation the subject was raised and a consensus was reached that those who earn less than 120% minimum salary, may pay as employees a contribution of not less than 0,5% so that you do not lose these privileges, i.e. the employer pays 1.5% extra or more when it is standard that 2% is paid as an employee. In order to obtain a welcome fee and PLN 240 each year, this level was reduced for people who earn just less than 120% minimum wage, and they may pay not less than 0,5%. They don't have to pay 2% anymore. , but only 0.5% So they can keep all these benefits. From this point of view, this has also been addressed to the poorest. There was a question when the first review was. The first review will be in 2023. Please note that the last group entering this system will be in 2021, so after 2 years of such full operation of the system a first review will be carried out. We are also aware that even during the earlier functioning of this system, if there are any amendments, and with such a large reform, a large and complex project we openly say that we do not have a monopoly on knowledge, sometimes mistakes happen, it will be corrected on an ongoing basis, so please do not worry about it. Why is the administration coming in at the end? Please note that most systems have been accepted as it is also a complex IT system. We predict that it will participate or that it has the right to participate about 11.5 million people. As far as public administration is concerned, it is about 2.5?3 million people - it depends on how to define the whole public sector - so introducing this is a major IT challenge. It was therefore decided that this would be the last group, as was the case in most countries, where the largest, most numerous groups were introduced from this point of view. This topic has already been discussed at the committee meeting and the problem has been addressed. Finally, it was asked whether this was a toxic system, whether all of your concerns were justified. It doesn't seem right to us. Please note that these measures will be managed by institutions supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority. Please note that there is a parallel project to strengthen the supervision of the financial market, strengthening the Commission and the Authority of the Financial Supervision Commission. We expect, that is, the expectation that there will be a special team, not so much as a department in the Financial Supervision Commission dealing with these plans. So from a security point of view, there is no danger that anything bad would happen to these measures. I would also like to point out... I will address Mr Cymanski. We have a little dissonance here, because on the one hand there are voices, fears that it is, as the Member here has said, a toxic system, but on the other hand there are voices, why they are not yet excluded from self-employed. A little bit, I think, these are conflicting voices, which is why I say: the system is very safe from this point of view, if not the safest. [[Aren't you running away from the minister's question?]] As far as self-employed people are concerned, please note that this problem is addressed, that there is a possibility of increasing the relief, a write-down on IKZE from 1.2 to 1.8% that is to say, effectively this will go from the current option of writing off the tax base, roughly from the current level of 5300 to 8000, which is almost 3,000. the tax base can be reduced. From this point of view, these benefits are also addressed to self-employed people. That's all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u285	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jarosław Krajewski, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u286	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think this is an important project. As I mentioned earlier, this is a universal programme that affects more than 11.5 million workers, so I understand that there have been emotions here, some problems from the total opposition. We've already gotten used to the fact that total opposition speaks a lot, criticizes very much. Let me give you an example: when you criticized the 500+ family programme, it turned out that many parliamentarians of total opposition have requested and received funds because it is a universal programme. This is important. If we look at this hypocrisy of total opposition... It's not like anyone else, like this side of the High House... [[But you don't want to lower your Members' salaries.]] ...talking about how the budget is illegal, but you've been receiving a briefing all year and taking these measures. Today, when we look at those supposedly-arguments you presented... I would understand if it were a matter of concern for this security, which I'm about to tell you. I have a request for a total opposition to put a stop to the preaching of... [[There's no club like this in the Seym.]] ...confirmations that must be called hypocrisy. As far as safety is concerned, because this is a very important argument for people who voluntarily decide on the PPK, I would like to stress once again from this speaker that there is no other financial product that would be as secured in the free market economy as PPK. On the one hand, we must talk about the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission, on the other hand we must say that there will be very low management costs for the PPK. It's already said that it's going to be 0.5%. net assets up to 0.6%, Mr Pudłowski, in this case you are right about success fee, which is 0.1% , resulting in a total of 0.6% net assets as regards the costs of operating the PPK system. If we compare this with what was proposed in the OFE, it should be recalled that today we are talking on average about around 4% these costs, but these costs in previous years were at 7% per year, up to 10% on a yearly basis, and here we are talking about the state guarantee that these costs will be the lowest. If we're saying... I'm gonna go back to why this is a safe place for the future. Why am I talking about this? This is because it is a maximum secured financial product in the free market economy, as far as the safety of any investment can be said. On the other hand, I would like to say, because this topic has also appeared, that the draft law contains information about a defined date fund, i.e. a clear, precise definition of the investment portfolio, on the one hand in the share part, and on the other hand in the debt part, which for many people, simplifying the subject, means that some of these funds will be invested in shares and some, for example. In bonds. But the higher the age, i.e. in the case of people over 50... [[Voice from the room: This is not a safe place for the future.]] ...their funds will be invested in the more secure part of products such as: bonds. This is precisely indicated in this bill and this needs to be said. And I am surprised if the Members of the Committee on Public Finance have not read this section of the justification or have not found these arguments in the project itself. There's one more thing. Mr Petru pointed out that a political consensus would be best achieved with this project. This should be accepted because it is not a question of talking about savings of Poles. We know that the rate of saving Poles compared to other European countries, with other OECD countries, shows that we are in favour of these countries today. It is about having savings that are meant to ensure a decent, peaceful life at a senior age. Why is this project presented to the High House today? On the one hand, because we have a very good situation on the labour market today. The unemployment rate is 5.8% and, according to the latest data from the European Union, we are the second country in the European Union in terms of the lowest level of unemployment. It's the same in Germany. But above all, this good situation on the labour market also translates into an increase in average wages. That's what we can talk about and that's what we should talk about. Even if the average salary increased by 7% in 2017, but as we look at the last 3 years, the average salary increased by almost 20%. Today, this generates the need to take care of the political divisions about saving Poles. The point is that when they retire at the age of 60, in addition to this part from the Social Insurance Institution, they also have additional funds. These measures will be covered by the employer's aid and State aid for many years of hard work. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, I would like to answer Mr Schreiber's question. This is primarily a matter of taking care of the future of millions of Poles. We don't present a mandatory program, it's a voluntary program. I hope that the Member understands that too. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I don't need to be educated.]] I assume it was only for political reasons that you wanted to cause some kind of disturbance in the High House. As far as other pension schemes are concerned, universal, voluntary, we must first of all say that this programme is based on the experience of other European countries. I would like to give you an example of the UK, where in 2008 a similar programme was introduced, in which, as far as participation is concerned, it is about 84% today. those who have opted for a universal voluntary long-term saving scheme. I think I really... I understand that there may be reservations, but report them out of concern for the future of Poles and that after they are over 60 years of age, they will use the funds they will have, and I stress this once again, that these are their private funds from their first payment to the PPK. [[And personal losses.]] This concerns their private resources, it is a matter of voluntary decision. I think this is the key to understanding why this PPK programme is called a safe, voluntary, universal program that will really cause us to feel that in 20 and 30 years' time, this information, which is also due to demographic forecasts that indicate... Today, four people are employed for one pensioner, and in 30 years, 1.5 are employed for one pensioner. Society's getting old. But here we have proposed another general programme of the 500+ family, which has already reversed these negative trends, forecasts from the years of government of the Civic Platform. [[That's not true.]] The Central Statistical Office presented the demographic forecast by 2042 and we have further demographic forecasts. I encourage Mrs Skowronska to read the official documents and publications of the Central Statistical Office, where it is written in black and white that today there are more births in Poland than the demographic forecast of your time. At that time, the Central Statistical Office did not provide for a universal, sustainable programme of family policies, which is the 500+ family programme. Finally, High Izbo, I want to say that this is a program without hidden stars, what was proposed by other financial institutions. This is a program that is transparent, transparent, voluntary. We assume that the person who decides, in addition to the funds that she has paid herself, will receive the payment of the employer and the State. The State will pay PLN 240 each year regardless of income earned by a particular employee. If we add a welcome fee of PLN 250 per start, we are talking about benefits from the employee's point of view. Even if he were to postpone his funds - from the average salary these 2% - to the proverbial sock... [[There's depreciation. A pillow.]] ...or other financial products, under the pillow, as Mr Cymanski says here, on the other hand, no one would pay him as much as you and your employer will pay him in this case - de facto the second amount. So here we are talking about a solidarity system by the employer, the employee and the state. I hope that, after a moment of reflection, you will also support this bill. [[Let's do it together.]] Let us do it together, as Mr Cymanski says. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u287	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that in time... [[Can you make a brief correction? Short.]] Were you mentioned? [[There was a name.]] Yes? [[Lucky.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u288	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Me with a brief correction. Mr Krajewski talked about politicising the subject, about the fact that the total opposition... We can yell at each other like that, who's total power and who's total opposition. I think it's completely inappropriate. What we are asking for is to work together on this issue. That's what we're talking about. And I am here, sir, on behalf of 3 million self-employed people. You say you want to help millions of Poles and Poles. You have a chance at that right now. Why do you treat people completely differently and talk about doing everyone right? You don't, you just don't. We have self-employed people, there are 3 million in Poland. These are very hard-working people. And you see them on the side -- you have, and you don't see them on the side at all -- guilty. And that's what I'm saying, so you didn't understand me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u289	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Health Committee on the Government draft act on cosmetic products (prints Nos 2556 and 2880). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Czech to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u290	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Health Committee on the Government's draft Cosmetics Act, 2556 and 2880. The draft law aims to implement European Union law. The project concerns ensuring a higher level of consumer safety by defining the obligations of cosmetic operators and ensuring effective supervision of cosmetic products. This is realized, among others. by requiring the notification of establishments where cosmetic products are manufactured to be included in the list of establishments. This list will be kept by the competent authorities of the State Sanitary Inspection on the ground. The project also provides access to the cosmetic product notification database, so-called. the CPNP database, which is run by the European Commission. The Health Commission considered this proposal at its meetings on 4 July and 2 October 2018. At its meeting on 2 October, the committee examined the subcommittee's report. The subcommittee was held on 17 July 2018. On 2 October, the Committee adopted six legislative amendments during its work, i.e. clarification of the provisions and three substantive amendments. Substantive amendment to the article. 5 prevents consumers from offering expired cosmetics. Then the amendment to the article. 53, it defines the competence of the State Trade Inspection. Amendment to Article. 63 refers to the date of storage of the data so far collected in the register - the national system for the information on cosmetics. In general, the Health Commission has given a positive opinion on the draft Cosmetics Act and proposes to the High Sejm that it be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u291	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Teresa Glenc, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the government draft Cosmetics Act. The draft Cosmetics Act aims to define the obligations of entities and the competence of bodies in the performance of administrative duties and tasks resulting from the Regulation of the European Parliament of 30 November 2009. The bill aims to ensure a high level of consumer safety and effective supervision of cosmetic products. The project provides the State Sanitary Inspection as well as the State Trade Inspection with new responsibilities related to the supervision of cosmetic products. The draft law adapts the Polish law to the provisions of EU Regulation No 1223/2009 by defining the obligations of manufacturers and distributors of cosmetics, the competence of bodies as regards the correctness of composition, labelling and documentation confirming the safety of products. Manufacturers of cosmetic products will be required to submit an application to the competent district health inspector for inclusion in the list of establishments within 30 days of the start of business. This will enable monitoring of good manufacturing practice. The draft Cosmetics Act proposes the creation of a system solution by establishing a system for informing about serious adverse reactions caused by the use of cosmetic products. The system will collect data on serious adverse reactions caused by the use of cosmetic products. The administrative centre shall be the entity which meets the requirements laid down in the draft law. The bill assumes that data on serious adverse reactions will be reported to the administrative centre. The administrative centre will inform the chief health inspector of the existence of a serious adverse reaction. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the draft Cosmetics Act. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u293	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u294	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of the Platform Club vis-à-vis the government's draft Cosmetics Act. This project is really the implementation of European law on the use of cosmetic products in Poland. It protects the Polish society. The project assumes the creation of a register of companies that produce cosmetic products, or so-called. responsible persons when cosmetic products are not produced in Poland. The project also sets out the obligations of labelling these cosmetic products, i.e. the report on the activities of products in Polish, and the labelling on packaging. The draft shall appoint the authorities responsible for the checks. These authorities are the Chief Sanitary Inspector and Commercial Inspection. The Chief Sanitary Inspector will deal with safety in terms of health impacts on possible consumers, while the Trade Inspection will assess whether the labelling on packaging complies with the provisions of the Act. A very important and important provision of this law is the provision that refers to the establishment of administrative centres to which information on adverse reactions will be transmitted. These centres will decide whether there are serious adverse reactions. Information on these cases will be communicated to the main health inspector of the country and this will be required, in accordance with European law, to provide this information to the European States and to the EFTA associated countries. These are very important information to avoid side effects of these products. It should be noted that all these regulations will be in line with GDPR regulations, with these administrative centres responsible for storing this information. They will also have the power to transmit relevant information on these products to centres treating serious complications after possible use of cosmetic products. Finally, the Act also sets out the financial consequences or penalties to be applied to producers or persons responsible for the distribution of funds related to non-compliance with the provisions of that Law. High Seym! The Civic Platform Club believes that the provisions of this law are desirable, are beneficial for Polish society. The Civic Platform Club will therefore vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u295	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Cosmetic Products Act is intended to regulate this area and to comply with the applicable law, as well as to increase the protection of consumers who have been deprived of such protection so far. The new rules will impose a number of obligations on manufacturers and distributors of cosmetics, as well as financial penalties in the event of errors or shortcomings. Labels and labels on the composition of cosmetics will be harmonised and production control will be tightened. The main objective of this project is to increase consumer safety and to ensure effective supervision of cosmetic products, among others. by compulsory notification of establishments in which cosmetic products are manufactured or packaged, to the list kept by the authorities of the Central Sanitary Inspectorate and to the Trade Inspection. Trade and GIS inspections will receive new tools to increase their supervision of the quality of cosmetic products. The Minister of Health, through a regulation, another legal document issued, will also indicate what test methods will be needed to control the safety of cosmetic products. The new Act will also systematise labelling requirements for cosmetic products. Labels and composition are to be presented only in Polish or English to enable consumers to read them. Manufacturers' declarations will be subject to the control of the GIS and the Trade Inspection. According to the draft law, a system will also be set up to inform about serious adverse reactions caused by the use of cosmetic products. Information on such cases will be included in this register. The new rules are designed to effectively enforce the obligations of cosmetics manufacturers and distributors. Control of cosmetic production will be tightened and, on the other hand, a system of financial penalties imposed by an administrative decision will also be introduced. The project introduces a penalty planner for errors and shortcomings covering both manufacturers and distributors. The bill on cosmetic products has already been positively assessed by the members of the cosmetics manufacturers' associations, among others. by the Polish Association of Cosmetic and Detergent Industry and by the Polish Union of Cosmetic Industry. They found that the new rules would work properly on the Polish market and allow effective supervision and proportionate implementation of the requirements of the EU regulation. The Act is to enter into force on 1 January 2019. The Kukiz Members' Club15 does not see any problem to support this project without any comments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u297	Thank you. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u298	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the club Moderna to the government's draft Cosmetics Act. We are in favour of this bill, as are my predecessors. The Act implements the requirements of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council in Polish legislation and will allow effective supervision of compliance with the provisions of that Regulation. The law is therefore intended primarily to ensure consumer safety. The Cosmetic Products Act is an important act for the Polish economy. Poland is the sixth and will soon be the fifth cosmetic market in the European Union. A significant part of European cosmetics production takes place in Poland. This is a very competitive market. It is estimated that the market for the production of cosmetics in Poland amounts to about PLN 20 billion, with more than 400 companies operating on it. The proposed cosmetic product law will repeal the 2001 Cosmetics Act. The proposed law imposes little obligations on manufacturers and distributors of cosmetics. The law is primarily intended to ensure effective enforcement of the regulations on the Polish market. It shall also lay down financial penalties in the event of any irregularities and shall identify the authorities responsible for their enforcement. The control over the production and marketing of cosmetics will therefore be tightened. The Chief Sanitary Inspector and the State Trade Inspection will receive new tools that will increase the effectiveness of supervision of the quality of cosmetic products. The Act will also systematize requirements related to the labelling of cosmetic products. Descriptions on labels will be drawn up in Polish, with the exception of the composition given by the international nomenclature, in such a way that consumers are properly informed about the properties and use of the product. The Act also clarifies the requirements concerning the language of documentation. The conclusions of the safety assessment of the cosmetic product must be prepared in Polish, while the remaining documentation can be prepared in Polish and English. The possibility of using English will make it easier for manufacturers to create documentation and save a number of translation costs. According to the project, there will also be a System of Information on Serious Unwanted Actions Caused by the Use of Cosmetic Products. That's where we're gonna find information about these cases. The most important new obligation under the Act is to require production facilities to be notified to a centralised database. This is intended to facilitate the supervision of the hygiene conditions of production. In the course of the work, the provisions related to the newly introduced Personal Data Protection Act were also agreed. A wide public consultation was conducted during the drafting of the law. They actively participated in all stages of the industry group. During the work on the Law, a number of changes were made to those provisions which raised opposition by industry representatives, importers, producers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, as they involved high costs. The most important changes are the reduction of disproportionate administrative penalties, the lack of translation of English-language documentation and the order of reporting of adverse reactions. Compromise solutions were reached, both sides satisfactory. The key demands of the sector in the course of the legislative work have been taken into account. The Act in its current form should function properly on the Polish market. Today, although high penalties raise some concerns for manufacturers and distributors, the industry also has a good assessment of the changes made. The project has a positive opinion of members of industry organizations, in particular the Polish Cosmetics Association and the Polish Cosmetics and Detergent Industry Association. In their view, the new law will allow effective supervision and implementation of the provisions of the EU regulation. In the assessment of the club, the Modern draft Cosmetics Act is a very well prepared legal act. Therefore, the club Modern is in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u299	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u300	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft Cosmetics Act goes against the EU Regulation, implements its provisions, talks about mechanisms, ways of proceeding, individuals, institutions that will supervise and control the implementation of the recommendations. So our club will support this legislative process and vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u301	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of your parliamentarians like to join the list? You're welcome, sir. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform. [[I'm on my way.]] Time - 1 minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The aim of the bill is to ensure consumer safety through effective supervision of cosmetic products, and this is undoubtedly a very good goal. Such supervision is very necessary. The supervision will mainly be carried out by the State Sanitary Inspection and the State Trade Inspection. The Act introduces new obligations for producers, a new register or a full register of manufacturers, introduces a system of penalties, so it is a big challenge for all. My question concerns the financial consequences. There are no financial implications indicated in the project. As far as income is concerned, it is difficult to estimate, and it can be accepted, because we do not know how this system of penalties will work, but I mean spending. After all, these tasks will not be financed without money, without money. 40,000. for the State Sanitary Inspection - is this enough to carry out such a serious project? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u303	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u304	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I believe that this implementation is a good direction to ensure an adequate level of safety for cosmetic products that affect consumers' health. This will result, among other things, in the regulation. that products will be evaluated and qualified for possible serious adverse reactions, or that the toxic performance standards of the chemical substances and mixtures from which the products will be performed will be verified. My question concerns the preparation of plans or work, the implementation of these plans by the Ministry, the work that would result in similar solutions being introduced in the area of dietary supplements, which appear very quickly and in huge quantities on our market. I am thinking especially about dietary supplements for children here. Similar doubts and appeals were directed by the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question to you from the Ministry is: Are you taking or planning to take action in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u305	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that the bill presented doesn't raise any doubts, in fact all the parliamentary clubs agree here. My question is similar to the question put by Mrs Zofia Czernow, which concerns costs. I also read into the justification of this bill and there about the costs of implementing the project in principle there is nothing. There is talk of creating a new base, which will contain a register of companies, while there is nothing about costs. I have 30 seconds left, so I wanted to say that I really like the fact that employers and market participants have been consulted. Indeed, this was done in a very professional and factual manner. I would expect every law in Poland to be so processed, I mean the question of market participants, those who actually work there. So that I ask you to answer the question of what costs will be associated with the implementation of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u307	Thank you. That's what we've done with the questioning formula. Please respond to Mr Grzegorz Hudzik's Deputy Chief Health Officer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u308	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll answer your first questions. 40,000. zł, which generates the introduction of a new law, is the amount earmarked for the construction of a system containing data on adverse reactions. The surveillance carried out so far by the State Sanitary Inspection functioned. This appropriation is intended to cover the modification and construction of a system containing data on adverse reactions, and this is practically the only amount generated by the implementation of this new law. In answer to your second question, I will say that the Food Safety Act will also be modified to change both the system of registration of dietary supplements and the supervision of the market for dietary supplements. Work is currently underway on building changes to this Food Safety Act. A number of interesting solutions are assumed here. I think that at this stage it would still be too early to predict the impact, but they will concern both the process of product registration, dietary supplements and, above all, their control. We will focus on the official sampling of the supplements on the market and regarding the results of their research to the safety of the consumer. That's what we're going to focus on in a lot of simplification. In this way, I will answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u309	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u310	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft Cosmetics Act. This project is intended to guarantee consumer safety and effective supervision of cosmetic products in circulation. The project sets out the obligations of cosmetics plants to ensure the safety of manufactured products. The Act also introduces the need to comply with the principles of good practice in the production of cosmetic products, so each manufacturer must report his plant to the State Sanitary Inspection. The proposed law aims to adapt our national rights to EU requirements and allow the elimination and rapid detection of poison centres in the case of cosmetic products. The Act will, in my opinion, make it easier for businesses to carry out business activities and reduce the time taken to carry out administrative activities related to the activity in question. The Free and Solidarnia Circle supports all actions that are intended to contribute to the security of our fellow countrymen. We will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u311	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on the Commercialisation of a State-owned public utility enterprise (Polish Post Office) (prints no. 2808 and 2871). I ask Mr Bogdan Rzońca to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u312	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Infrastructure Commission at its meeting on 1 October 2018 examined the Government's draft Print Act No 2808 concerning the amendment of the Act on the Commercialisation of a State-owned public utility enterprise (Polish Post). The purpose of the bill is to enable the sale of independent dwellings at preferential prices to tenants in buildings owned by Poczta Polska. At the moment, in the current legal state, a person who rents an apartment in a residential building belonging to the Polish Post office has the option to buy an apartment with a voucher, provided that the company decides to sell the apartment, while the person who rents an apartment under the same conditions in the non-residential building does not have such possibility. So we're just dealing with legal inequality. And the draft law eliminates this legal inequality. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends that the project be adopted. An amendment to the Polish Post Commercialisation Act has been proposed and this amendment is as if it consumes or eliminates this legal imbalance. The Commission recommends adopting a report in which it is now expressing its support for the project, i.e. to enable tenants to sell their apartments regardless of the function of the building. There were no votes against during the vote. There have been abstentions, but the vast majority recommend adopting this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u313	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr King, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Act on the Commercialisation of a State-owned public utility enterprise - Poczta Polska, sejmowy print nr 2808. High Seym! In the current legal condition, the person who rents an apartment in a residential building belonging to the Polish Post office has the option of buying an apartment with a voucher, provided that the company decides to sell the apartment, while the person who rents an apartment under the same conditions in a non-residential building, even if the building is a redundant company, has not yet had such a possibility. There is therefore a difference in the legal status of tenants depending on whether they rent an apartment in a residential building or in a building with a different function. This must be seen as an inequality between citizens and the law. Therefore, pursuant to this draft law, it is possible to sell self-contained dwellings at preferential prices to tenants in buildings owned by Posta Polska regardless of the function of the building in which these apartments are located. In other words, the project eliminates the problem of the lack of legal solutions enabling Poczta Polska to carry out the above mentioned. legal action. We hope that this bill will be welcomed by those posters whom this provision has so far discriminated against. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u315	Thank you very much. I ask the floor of Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u316	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I present an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on the Commercialisation of a State-owned public utility enterprise (Polish Post), print no 2808. The bill deals with the sale of self-contained dwellings located in buildings owned by Poczta Polska S.A. regardless of the function of the building in which these premises are located. So they will be mostly apartments located in buildings where post offices are located. These premises will be sold in accordance with the Law of 15 December 2000 on the rules for the disposal of apartments owned by state-owned enterprises, certain commercial companies with the participation of the State Treasury, state legal persons and certain apartments owned by the State Treasury. This means that eligible persons will be able to acquire such flats with discounts, under the rules laid down in the Real Estate Management Act. The price per apartment may be reduced in total by 6% for each year of work of the entitled person and by 3% for each year of lease of the apartment, with a total reduction not exceeding 95% the sale price of the apartment. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform in 2015, after the end of its term of office, submitted a bill on the possibility of selling apartments located in buildings owned by Poczta Polska. It was print number 3378. He wasn't exactly... It wasn't a complete procedure. Therefore, the Civic Platform is in favour of this law. We appreciate that PiS has taken action launched by the Civic Platform. However, we would like to draw attention to the fact that Poczta Polska is a commercial company and has the task of managing its resources, including real estate, as best as possible. It is the President and the Management Board of the Company who are responsible for the proper management of the State Treasury's assets, not Members or Senators. Therefore, giving the opportunity to sell these apartments from the resources of the Polish Post, including with a bonus for eligible persons, we call for a thorough and individual examination of each case of the sold dwelling. In this resource because, as you can see in the explanatory memorandum, there are 470 buildings. There are very diverse buildings there. It can also be historic buildings, and single-family houses of high value, and tenement houses. There's a house in my neighborhood... [[That's what you need to buy.]] ...where there are two luxurious apartments, which is why I say there are such cases. They can also be houses, in better or worse condition. Therefore, every time, I am convinced, the expert's opinion will be delivered and the value of the apartment will be valued according to the market price - of course, it will be a discount - and it will not be an average value, which according to you is 650 PLN/m2, because sometimes it is several thousand. Ladies and gentlemen! In 2009, as we all remember, Poczta Polska became a single-person public limited company of the Treasury, whose founder and sole shareholder is the Treasury represented by the Minister responsible for infrastructure. Therefore, the Minister certainly knows the state of the company's finances. The question arises: In connection with the increase in the sale of apartments, the resources of the company, Poczta Polska will be provided with compensation in order not to reduce the company's finances anyway? I ask for compensation, because in the explanatory memorandum we are told that the assets that can be sold have a market value of about PLN 23 million, while the company itself will receive PLN 1147 thousand, which is almost PLN 22 million less than if it were sold at market price. Let me remind you that we are talking about apartments in non-residential buildings, which are not built by social funds. So is the Ministry preparing any compensation for the company? It is also important that apartments in buildings, where post offices are active, are not disposed of so as not to create such situations, that e.g. The housing community, which will be built there, will somehow prevent the use of an object, which is, however, a public utility object. That's why there's a very sensible need here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the use of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u317	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u318	To sum up, the Civic Platform is for selling apartments... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Thank you for your support.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u319	Thank you very much. [[Aldona is always with us.]] Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the rapporteur mentioned earlier, there was no major controversy at the committee meeting. Practically everyone has just been told by the Member of the Civic Platform. Of course, it is worth paying attention to them so that everything is clear. I don't think you need much comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u321	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Misja, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u322	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Dear guests! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation of the State-owned public utility enterprise - Poczta Polska. The aim of this amendment is to enable the sale at preferential prices of independent dwellings for their tenants, located in buildings owned by Posta Polska, regardless of the function of the building in which these apartments are located. So far, this was only possible as a result of the intertwining of various events when the apartments were part of a residential building. In order to show you the scale of the changes proposed in this Act, I would like to say that on the basis of data received from the Polish Post, according to the state as at 30 June 2017, Poland Post has 470 residential buildings in which at least one apartment was rented for an indefinite period of time. In view of the amendment to Law 607, households would be entitled to a preferential purchase of self-employed dwellings located in non-residential buildings occupied by tenants. The vast majority of apartments in these non-residential buildings are located in rural areas and small towns. Therefore, on behalf of the Poselski Club I recommend to the High House a vote for a yes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u323	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, PSL, the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u324	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The government bill on the amendment of the Act on the Commercialisation of a State-owned public utility enterprise - Poczta Poland, as well as the report of the committee on this project presented by Mr Rzońca - in our opinion - are exhaustive the objective set out in the provisions of this project and deserve support, therefore our club will vote in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u325	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of your fellow MPs like to sign up again? Here you are, Mrs President and Mr President. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Already during the club appearances there was a number of properties in which the apartments in question are located, but I would like to ask how many of these apartments are in the real estate, how many we are talking about, because we know that many times the inhabitants of these buildings have turned to the post office, wanting to buy them. The post office doesn't always want to sell them, because sometimes there might be a situation that was said to be impossible to sell. How many of these apartments are and is there really a risk that if these regulations are introduced, there may be problems with the functioning of existing post offices or inactive facilities? I know they are, so I would ask the Minister to present this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u327	Thank you. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to make sure I got the numbers right. We are talking about 470 premises with an average value of PLN 650 per meter, i.e. we assume that the present value of these premises for the Polish Post office as defined in their books is PLN 23 million. As I understand, the project assumes a reduction of up to 90%, but it is also said that about one million will be paid to the Polish Post Office, i.e. de facto for each apartment there will be 95%. Increases. Am I getting this right? Do you assume that each of these apartments will be sold at a maximum price? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u329	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u330	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two or three short questions. First: Is there any list of locations that will be sold first? I understand that requests from residents appear, so how many of these premises would be under the first tranche? Secondly, what is the average living time? I understand that these must be contracts for an indefinite period, and I would therefore like to know to what extent they are residents who have just moved in and have contracts for an indefinite period, whether this is foreseen in the long term and whether there is a publicly available list. As I understand it, there are commercial parts in these buildings that could probably also be sold. Is there such a public, published list? 'Cause maybe it's not just the locals who would be interested in buying. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u331	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u332	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Act deals with the rules for the sale of apartments belonging to the Polish Post to tenants located in non-residential buildings. I have two questions. The first question is: How many apartments are in non-residential buildings? Because we talked about the number of buildings, and I'm interested in the number of apartments... [[607.]] ...to figure out how big these buildings are, whether they're multi-dwelling buildings or something. That's one thing. The second question is this. These increases shall be granted to eligible persons. And what happens when a family who doesn't have the authority to buy an apartment in an uninhabited building is a family that doesn't have the authority to buy an apartment? What's her situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u333	Thank you. There are no more questions. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure, please take the floor. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Room voice: The bell is ringing.]] [[Time's up?]] [[Voice from the room: Over, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u334	Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand I'm going to have some time dedicated by your marshal. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak and answer questions about the draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation of the State-owned public utility enterprise Ladies and gentlemen! The questions raised some doubts. These doubts were also expressed in speeches on behalf of the clubs. First of all, it should be emphasized very clearly that thanks to the project, thanks to these provisions, which are included in the draft law, the Management Board of Polish Post will receive an instrument. On the other hand, no specific automaton will be introduced, which will cause the sales process of the apartments to start and be completed. Few of this, the process of selling apartments will start and will involve the need to apply e.g. Ninety-five percent increase. All these possibilities are at the disposal of the board of directors, i.e. the amount of the discount will depend on the price of the square meter of apartments, i.e. up to 90%. The Management Board of the Polish Post will decide, of course, on the basis of estimates, technical descriptions which accompany the valuation of such premises. This Management Board of Polish Post will be able to clearly decide how many of these apartments and which of these apartments will be sold. The provisions of this law give the management the opportunity to increase the efficiency of the company, because unfortunately in the case of Polish Post since 2008, i.e. since the adoption of the Act of 5 September 2008, there has been a provision allowing the sale of apartments regardless of the purpose of the building in which the apartments were sold. This provision was in force for the adoption of these provisions, and later, unfortunately, apartments in non-residential buildings owned by them were excluded. Polish Post Office. On the one hand, housing could be sold in residential buildings, on the other hand, it could not be sold in non-residential buildings. This caused a situation in which even when the Polish Post office was used - and I will remind you that more than 70% Poczta Polska is located in resources, buildings erected before the Second World War - it was not used, it could not be sold without an apartment, and it was not willing to purchase a utility premises with an apartment which was occupied by the tenant. Besides, Poczta Polska could not and did not want to sell apartments with tenants. Therefore, the solution introduced allows the sale of apartments, but it must be made very clear that Poland Post does not enter the housing community. What does that mean? He can't first sell an apartment in a building where he owns a utility establishment. So first, he has to sell the unused, necessary Polish Post office and then sell the apartment. So that it will not be so that Poczta Polska will continue to function so that there is a utility premises not used, the Management Board of Poczta Polska decides on the sale of the apartment, leaves in its resource a utility premises, which is actually not used. We leave these decisions to the Management Board of Polish Post, trusting him and with the conviction that he will legally care primarily about the interests of the organization, the interests of the company. Answers to specific questions. Poczta Polska S.A. has 2 thousand. apartments, exactly 2,000. Apartments, including 598 are inhabited in 460 non-residential buildings, so on the question of how many of these apartments in non-residential buildings will potentially be sold, I answer: 598. But that doesn't mean they're all going to be sold. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] The assumption is that in the first stage it will be about 75 apartments, because these are the needs arising from the management of Polish Post real estate, resulting from the fact that Poland Post has unfortunately to finance the cost of maintaining these premises. In residential buildings there are 1,400 apartments. In the end, Poczta Polska S.A. intends to leave about 1000 apartments. The sale of these apartments, which the Polish Post Office considers reasonable, will be spread over the years. It's not gonna be a one-time sale, it's not gonna be a one-time hit. As regards the bonus for non-professionals with Polish Post S.A., the law does not differentiate the tenants, i.e. the indicated persons will have the right to the bonus. Employees of Polish Post SA for each year of lease - 3% and for every year of work in Post Office - 6%. The non-workers in Poczta Polska S.A. will receive only a discount for rent for each year - 3%. In addition, I inform you that Poczta Polska SA has not rented apartments for an indefinite period for 10 years. I hope that these answers have satisfied Members who have asked questions. I hope that they resolve the doubts contained in the club speeches. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: 100%.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u335	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation of the State-owned public utility enterprise The regulations contained in the Act will enable the joint stock company Poczta Polska to sell with a bonus of residential premises located in non-residential buildings. Given that in the current legal state it is possible to sell dwellings in residential buildings, the proposed amendment will eliminate the current inequality of citizens vis-à-vis the law. It is important that this project restores the legal status before the entry into force of the Law of 15 December 2000 on the rules for the disposal of apartments owned by state-owned enterprises, certain commercial companies with the participation of the State Treasury, public legal persons and certain apartments owned by the State Treasury, which, taking into account in its records only premises in residential buildings, introduced this inequality. It should also be noted that the premises referred to in the project are residential premises located in buildings where the post office no longer operates, so rental fees are the only income of the company due to the ownership of the property. Often these are buildings prior to 1939 whose maintenance and maintenance are Extremely expensive, exceeding rent income. The sale of such an establishment, even with a discount, would therefore be a business decision of the company, ending the further payment of the costs of ownership of the property which it is unable to use. The fact that the sale of the premises referred to in the novel is not mandatory under any circumstances requires emphasis and that the project only gives the company the opportunity to do so. In my opinion, the solutions contained in the amendment meet the expectations of tenants of dwellings in non-residential buildings belonging to the property of the Polish Post and at the same time are in the best interest of the company. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u337	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act against unfair exploitation of contractual advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products (prints 2791 and 2873). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u338	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the work of the Joint Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act against unfair exploitation of contractual advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products, prints No. 2791 and 2873. Those committees at the meeting on...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u339	Excuse me, sir. Do I see young people from Chelm's school at the gallery? I greet very cordially young people from Primary School No. 4 in Chełma. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, Chelm! Ovations!]] I'm sorry I can't come out to you, but I need you to be understanding with me today. [[Bravo, Marshal!]] Excuse me, sir. [[Okay, well, you have to welcome nice and nice guests. We are very happy that you are in the Polish Sejm.]] [[Especially since they're from Chelm.]] That's right. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! These committees: the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development discussed this draft law at a joint meeting on 1 October 2018. The bill is not extensive. There was also an in-depth discussion, but it did not arouse much emotion. All unanimously voted for the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution... [[Laws.]] ...laws. The agreement was universal, for which I warmly thank all the ladies and gentlemen who attended the committee. Two words on the most important changes that the Act is making. It is a law that farmers expect, because this law will defend farmers who are the weakest link in the distribution of agri-food products. Firstly, the limits which together had to be met in accordance with the old law in order to be applicable, i.e. 50,000, are abolished. PLN of total turnover between the supplier and the buyer and PLN 100 million in turnover of the party which used unfair practice, using its contractual advantage. Now there are no boundaries. Any entity, any commercial relationship between the supplier and the buyer may be covered by that law. Secondly, a number of entities entitled to notify the President of the OOKiK of the suspicion of unfair practices are being extended. Practically everyone will be able to submit a notification, not only to the injured party, that there have been unfair practices in trading between entities. Thirdly, anonymity is ensured for all those who report that dishonest practice has taken place. Fourthly, the obligation to make such a notification in writing was waived. Therefore, as I said at the outset, the law has been widely accepted by the ladies and gentlemen of the Members taking part in the discussion. There were no votes against. I move that the High Sejm accept the relevant bill. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Robert Telus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u340	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the law on countering unfair exploitation of contract advantages in the marketing of agricultural and food products. Mrs. Marshal! As you have noticed, this is already a law concerning agriculture, Polish agriculture, strengthening the Polish farmer throughout the whole system, throughout the food chain. It is a law that shortens the way, I will say colloquially, from field to table. We've had a very difficult situation about this road. Here you have already said that the farmer is the weakest link in the entire food chain. The farmer was most exploited by the companies. The current government policy has led to the fact that it is the companies that dictate prices on the Polish market. We have a situation on soft fruit, supermarkets, vegetables right now. Potatoes in sierady cost 20 gr. The same potatoes, only repacked, at the supermarket cost 2,20.2,40. That's what they earn, often dishonestly, companies. This block of laws, which is being proposed at the moment, is precisely to rule out this unfair competition, those unfair practices which were in Poland, which weakened the Polish farmer and which in many places used the Polish farmer. What has been going on so far, what our predecessors have led us to, is the sale of processing plants. This has led to these unfair practices, Mr President, and you know it, being applied. [[It's already been done.]] Farmers were exploited. They were used by these big companies, by supermarkets, by those processors who had more power because they had and have lawyers, the whole mechanism to use the Polish farmer. This is the plan for the village we're presenting. This law is part of this plan for the countryside, which causes us to strengthen Polish agriculture, repair, maybe even so, repair Polish agriculture. For many years Polish agriculture has been destroyed. And these are the laws that will make the farmer an entity, not an object, as has been the case so far, an object to be used. At the moment, appropriate penalties may be imposed on those who are playing unfairly, who are using their power unfairly. I am speaking here from the agricultural side, your marshal, ladies and gentlemen, the High Sejm, but this law also fits into the consumer's welfare, because on the one hand the farmer was deceived, and on the other hand the consumer was very often deceived, because the consumer, buying goods in supermarkets, did not know what he was buying, did not know what quality what he was buying, often or perhaps most often were goods, products, I will say gently, questionable quality, highly questionable quality. So that the farmer was used, but also consumers, all the inhabitants of Poland and above all the inhabitants of cities, because, as I said, they did not know what they were buying, we did not know what we were eating. This law is part of this clarification of the rules that will make the farmer gain more and the consumer gain more. Maybe they will lose only those dishonests who used Polish farmers. Therefore, your Marshal, the High Sejm, the Law and Justice Club will support good solutions for the Polish village. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u341	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The purpose of the draft Seym Printing Act No 2791 is, first, to include the provisions of trade relations between the supplier and the buyer and, second, to ensure full anonymity of the notifying party on unfair practices using the contractual advantage. According to the Civic Platform, the proposed legal solutions for intentions are right, but the detailed proposals in the law need to be clarified. Once again, we'd like to ask the Minister to explain. First of all, how should the clause be understood: the contractual advantage is the existence of a significant imbalance in the buyer's economic potential vis-à-vis the supplier or vice versa? According to what principles will the record be assessed: a significant imbalance? In our view, it is general and subjective and offers many possibilities for any interpretation. We would ask the Minister to say how this provision will be applied in practice. Another issue that raises our doubts and requires clarification is the record that, I quote, everyone can report to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection a notice of suspicion of unfair practices using a contractual advantage, and not only in writing. So, Minister, how will this provision be applied and what other possibilities can be used against the party participating in the entire supply chain of agricultural raw materials and food? Who will verify this information and whether each time checks will be carried out against the notifier? We know very well that in the market economy the excessive presence of state administration is neither necessary nor indicated. Does the government provide that false information may be addressed to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, and will sanctions apply to these persons or entities? If so, what type and nature will these sanctions be? Another issue concerns administrative proceedings. We would like to make sure that administrative proceedings are completed and will be final in nature, or that there is a possibility of legal proceedings in connection with the notification by the victim of unfair practices in the food chain. We do not understand why an institution is being introduced into the legal order, that's what we called it in the club, the so-called. a whistleblower, i.e. a person who reports suspicion of unfair trading practices without having to disclose his identification data. Why should the person submitting the notification be anonymous at any stage of the proceeding? After all, market participants are not and cannot be anonymous, we have known for a long time. And if court proceedings are conducted, will the party making the notification also be anonymous to the courts? I would like to point out that the President of the Office for the Protection of Personal Data also asks for clarification of the concept of "data identifying the applicant'. Is it just a name, or is it an address, PESEL, NIP, REGON or other data? We would also like to know how these identification data will be protected, for what time, how they will be stored. The President of the Office for Personal Data Protection states that the designer is responsible for creating legal provisions that will regulate certain legal matters in a clear and exhaustive manner. We would like to ask whether such a system, which is proposed in the bill, is satisfactory and whether such a system is sought. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The provisions proposed in the draft law are intended to strengthen the position of the food supplier, the farmer, in relation to the recipient, which is right from the point of view of the food manufacturers. On the other hand, I would like to return to the writing of the article. 2 draft law, which refers to contractual contracts excluding direct supplies. Minister, at what stage are the work currently being carried out, whether at the Ministry or at European Union level in the field of contract agreements? We'd like to meet... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u343	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the amendment of the Act on countering unfair exploitation of contract advantages in trade in agricultural and food products. The aim of the new normative regulations is primarily to eliminate unfair commercial practices across the entire supply chain of agricultural raw materials and food. The justification for the project indicated the need to include the provisions of the Act in all trade relations between the supplier and the buyer. It is also crucial to ensure the anonymity of the party that makes a notification on practices that unfairly exploit the contractual advantage. The provision on the value of turnover criterion was repealed, which meant that the Act in its previous wording could not have been applied at all. These steps have been taken with a view to significantly extending the number of entities subject to the Act. The existing thresholds were too high and thus narrowed the scope of cases in which the legislation so far applied. The definition of the contract advantage was also greatly simplified, clearly indicating that there was a significant imbalance in the buyer's economic potential vis-à-vis the supplier or supplier vis-à-vis the buyer. Clear and clear. It's a positive change. Polish law must be understood by citizens. A more general definition should also help to eliminate the disadvantage of many agricultural producers vis-à-vis stronger trading partners. Another important change concerns the extension of the circle of entities which will be entitled to notify the suspected use of unfair practices using the contractual advantage. Now it can only be done by an entrepreneur who suspects that such practices are being applied to himself. The changes assume that from now on such a notification will be able to report to anyone. In addition, such a notification will be anonymous as the data identifying the notifier will not be disclosed to the parties to the proceeding at any stage. In conclusion, it should be pointed out that the proposed changes should benefit small enterprises. They should have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the economy, as they will limit the use of unfair commercial practices throughout the food supply chain. I recommend the Kukiz Club to vote 15 for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u345	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u346	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! The proposal for an amendment is based on a good objective, which is to protect farmers with small farms. This is an uproar of farmers' protests. The protests of fruit farmers made the work on amending the law on contractual superiority more rapid. Farmers complained about fruit prices in purchases that did not even cover production costs and accused processors of colluding prices. On this project, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection cooperated with the Ministry of Agriculture. The Office shall monitor the relationship between suppliers and processors. There have been activities that have prevented farmers from planning their deliveries and have not ensured a level playing field between the raw material and all suppliers. There have been cases where payment deadlines have been extended. In the milk processing industry controlled by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, contracts have sometimes proved to be harmful to farmers who, for example, have been obliged to issue all the milk produced to one processor under threat of penalty. Changes are therefore undoubtedly needed, but the proposed rules may hinder relations on the agri-food market. During his work in the committee, the Minister of Agriculture demonstrated the accusatory attitude towards all businesses involved in the processing of agricultural products, despite the fact that most of them do not abuse the advantage. The falling fruit prices are not always due to the bad will of processors, but also to economics. World competition, lack of stability in trade, and the lack of consolidation of farmers has a negative impact on production costs and sales performance, as it is more difficult to negotiate prices with buying points from a small farm perspective. As a result of these changes, which my colleagues have already told us, not only will any supplier running a small farm be able to sue the office for abuse of a contractual advantage, but in general any citizen, which may involve the influx of many wrong accusations, which will still have to be verified by the office. It's a big risk. The information identifying the notifier and the content of the notification pursuant to the project will not be disclosed to farmers or traders buying products, which can be used by competition, unless no one has yet said so, and this is an important issue, as part of a market strategy or as part of a competitive struggle. The contractual advantage has been cut to an unprecision significant imbalance in economic potential. This may lead to ambiguities of interpretation during proceedings by the Office, as well as at the stage of negotiation, creation and application of contracts by entrepreneurs. This creates an unclear situation in which entrepreneurs will not know when their activities are limited by the provisions of the Act and when they may involve the imposition of financial penalties. In addition, the revised Article. 28 says: "The President of the Office may give immediate enforcement of the decision in whole or in part if the protection of the essential interests of suppliers or buyers so requires. What exactly are important interests in this case? How do you define that? What's the point of making such imprecise rules? This impreciseness allows a large interference of the office into the free market, because it will depend on the office to define, to interpret unclear rules in a given case. In addition, the revised law will also apply to contracts concluded before its entry into force, which will continue after the amendment. This threatens to sanction contracting parties who may inadvertently violate the newly applicable law. The lack of guidance needed to interpret these provisions may affect the economic decisions of both parties: in the case of buyers, there is a very serious risk of not achieving the objective of this law - the use of intermediaries, the concentration of orders with larger suppliers. The project covers any market relationship concerning the acquisition of agricultural or food products and significantly extends the powers of the President of the Office. The content of the amendment was not consulted publicly at the stage of government work. The project undoubtedly contains some controversy and could have gone to the subcommittee. I think it's a mistake that he didn't make it to this subcommittee, because it is undoubtedly needed, necessary, the farmers were waiting for him, but it contains a lot of problematic records. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u347	Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What's a contract? The contract is a trade agreement between the supplier and the recipient, between two operators on the market. In this case, we're talking about the fact that this case is about agriculture, so this is a contract between the one that produces it and the one that receives the product from it. Indeed, if we are talking about a contractual advantage, each of these market players seeks to have a strong position in their business. There's nothing wrong with that. Every operator, whether a farmer or a recipient of his products, wants to be strong on the market. This is what every market operator seeks to do. And that's not unfair. On the other hand, it is unfair when one of these entities is stronger and is not allowed to use its position on the market against the one that is weaker in this market. These rules introduce regulations on the activities of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which state in which case these activities on the market are illegal. It is said that agreements that may impose abnormally low prices, agreements between entities that operate in parallel on this market on one side or on the other are not allowed to be concluded. And then we can talk about countering whether we can then talk about unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage on the market. How can we change this situation? It can be changed by clear and precise rules. Unfortunately, I have a dubious satisfaction, because when several months ago a draft of this law, which we are amending today, I was talking about the fact that it will not have any positive effects and there will be no impact on the market that it will not help a single farmer, because the criteria that the state, I am talking about the government, then you introduced, which are being abolished today, were too high and impossible to meet. I have also tabled an amendment on this matter. Neither the Minister, nor the rapporteur, nor anyone in this part of the House reacted. They all said it didn't make sense. Today, after a dozen months, when you yourself have noticed that this law does not regulate anything, does not change anything, or even preserves adverse situations in trade between the farmer and the recipient, you are proposing an amendment that we tabled several months ago. 'Cause what did you notice in the meantime? That the black script that we predicted was working out, which means those who are strong on the market, they used it perfectly this season. Those who are strong and dishonest use it, those who impose grossly low prices. That is why it was necessary to change it then, and then we could say that contracts concluded in agriculture, i.e. contracts between suppliers, producers and recipients of their products, are legally regulated and should not be allowed to fail to comply with them. We are talking about this, your voice, that the changes made will be so good that it will be possible to intervene anonymously that the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection will be able to respond to such anonymous interventions. There's no need for anonymity here. I'll give you the best example of this season. When soft fruit began to be bought, not anonymously, but openly, even in the form of an open letter, the union of the judges that I am directing sent a notice to the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection about the possibility of committing a crime involving unfair exploitation of the contractual advantage. We weren't afraid, and we didn't have to do it anonymously. Do you know what the UOKiK answer was? The UOKiK's answer was that if we had any evidence, phone calls, wiretaps, phone records, meeting notes, so that we could deliver it to the UOKiK, then he would take action on this. This is the effectiveness of the UOKiK today, and this is the effectiveness of this law. And unfortunately, this record, which is proposed, will absolutely change that. It was misleading the farmers, it was misleading the entrepreneurs. Speaking about the contract and the contract - this is the second part of the bill: so that we can talk about using the advantage of the contract, we have to have contracts first and there are no contracts in agriculture. The Minister is an economic activist, and he understands it perfectly. Today, agricultural products are traded without agreement. Because what was introduced by this law a dozen months ago is fiction, because the contract is signed when the farmer arrives at the buying point and when the recipient decides to buy the product from him. Then he's asked to sign a one-day one-day deal. That's a contract? This is using the advantage of the contract to force this farmer to give up the product at every price offered, because there is no other alternative. Then why aren't there any contracts? And here, unfortunately, is again a reservation for the activities of the Ministry. My organization, its members have participated in the Ministry of Agriculture for several months in developing a model contract agreement and it was promised that this contract agreement would be introduced as a mandatory contract, not as a fictional, hull contract, as it is today. And what is the amendment of this law today? Nothing. This case hasn't been touched at all, this case has been silenced. And today, and tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow in accordance with this bill, nothing will change, and that's what I guarantee you. Whatever the case, we're gonna support this bill because it's making a difference. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Whereas it will absolutely have no positive effect and say that it is expected by farmers and will change the current situation, that is, fairy tales for voters, not any economic activity on the market. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u349	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u350	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Minister, the question is, shouldn't you take care of the UOKiK as a whole and as an antitrust law? At one meeting of the committee on which I was present, there was talk of this law and one of the farmers said that the currants cost approx. 47 gr, everyone paid 40 gr and he also started buying 40 gr under the influence of other producers. It's nothing but a contract conspiracy, like a price conspiracy. So maybe you should go this way. 'Cause you're gonna solve the problems so pointlessly that this one did it, this one did it, this one did it. And the whole system could crash. It is about the whole system - overall - to possibly press on the whole cartel collusion, maybe then the Polish farmer will be safer, maybe then he will achieve better profits and it will be more effective. However, it seems to me that the bill will not result in this profit and as usual the law will remain on paper. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u352	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the fourth amendment that was included in the bill. The amendment concerns paragraph. Article 1 11 and according to it, since the adoption of this law, anyone will be able to notify the President of the OOKiK about the suspicion of unfair practices using the contractual advantage. Therefore, I have a question: Has the government planned for the 2019 budget an appropriate increase in the funds allocated precisely to the office? Because it is not difficult to imagine that if we extend to all citizens certain powers of a fairly narrow group, in today's legal situation narrowed to entrepreneurs, the amount of work associated with this will certainly increase, the number of people needed to handle these applications will have to increase. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Have you provided adequate funding? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u354	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In examining this law, which is really needed, because certain regulations are needed precisely to exploit the competitive advantage, I pointed out that this law can also be used to apply unfair competition, because there may be companies, there may be suppliers who will use it. It is a matter of pressing specific complaints which cannot be confirmed by the outcome of the checks. Don't you think there should be some kind of sanction for those entities or those people who are going to make reports of this kind that are not valid? Because such complaints can be filed indefinitely. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u355	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Tadeusz Romanczuk to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs that supported this law and the committee meetings, and today in their speeches, because none of the clubs opposed this law. That means she's very much needed. Indeed, despite the specific questions you have asked about what may be a problem in the future, I do not think that this will be the case. Let's just give it time, let this bill come into force and we'll see. In my opinion, this is a very good solution. Like one of your fellow Members said... For 20 years I worked, ran the company, and I also have experience in how it is in this so-called. the majority and how it is with contracts and contracts with large networks, but also with other commercial forms that operate in the territory and our country, and the European Union. In my opinion, this bill is very much needed and this has been confirmed by everyone. It won't be so bad, I don't see why I'm concerned about the questions I'm asking. Like I said, let's try, let's give it time. Even if something bad happens, that's what I'm going to say, we can always fix it. No mistakes are made by those who do nothing, but I say with all my determination that the law that the High Sejm is working on today will achieve its goal and will serve our farmers very well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u357	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Products Act and the Food Safety and Nutrition Act (Prints No. 2858 and 2872). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u358	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Animal Products Act and the Food Safety and Nutrition Act, print No 2858. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 28 September 2018, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 1 October, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law on printing no.2858 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u359	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u360	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the government draft law amending the Animal Products Act and the Food and Nutrition Safety Act, print no. 2858 and 2872. The proposed proposal facilitates food law for operators wishing to produce small-scale food and market it in short distribution chains. To date, operators wishing to carry out an activity in the production of products of animal origin before obtaining an authorisation for the construction of an establishment were required to draw up a technological project for the establishment and send it together with a request for its approval to the district veterinarian competent for its intended place of operation and to notify it in writing of the extent and volume of production and the type of products of animal origin to be produced in that establishment. In addition, in accordance with the current rules, operators wishing to carry out activities on the food market subject to the supervision of the State Sanitary Inspection must, in order to be able to start operations, obtain approval of the establishment. Some of the operators, including those engaged in agricultural retail trade, were exempted from both obligations. According to the draft law, such exemption will also include entities wishing to produce on a small scale in direct sales and marginal, local and limited activities. Those entities will, however, continue to be required to apply for entry in the register of establishments, within at least 30 days before the date of commencement of the planned activity, in writing. The introduction of such facilitation may be an incentive for farmers who intend to produce food and sell it not only to final consumers but also to shops, restaurants or cafeterias within the framework of the abovementioned. forms of activity. For both of these forms sales of food produced from their own raw materials can be made both to the final consumer and to retail establishments directly supplying the final consumer. The facilitations will also apply to the activities of operators wishing to produce small-scale food in rooms mainly used as private dwellings, but where food is regularly prepared to be placed on the market. It concerns food of non-animal origin or food containing food of non-animal origin and products of animal origin at the same time. This facilitates the abolition of the obligation to approve such activities by the competent authority of the State Sanitary Inspection. Operators carrying out such activities will only be required to submit an application for inclusion in the register of establishments. The proposed changes are a way out for small entities intending to produce and sell good, healthy and tasty Polish food. It's a result of consultation and social expectations. It should be added that the proposed changes ensure, which is very important from the consumer's point of view, the safety of food products. It will continue to be necessary to meet hygienic conditions for their production and will be supervised by the Veterinary Inspection - I would remind you that it was intended, among others. additional posts for these purposes - possibly health inspection. For these reasons, the Law and Justice Club supports the proposed bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u361	Thank you very much, sir. And, please, Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, I don't have enough time, although it doesn't take much time for such a short bill. Minister, question. I understand that you must keep the promises of Prime Minister Morawiecki and talk about the great legislative campaign, the legislative attack that you have prepared, but it is already a shame that the High House should deal with the same twice. In one law that we are now working on, from print number 2858, we are talking about changing the laws on food safety and nutrition, and in a few hours we will be doing the next amendment, in which we will put something else into exactly the same law. So this bill will be amended twice in one session. But what are we talking about? Of course, you have a certain way of treating the law as something important, because we are really talking about something important, which is constantly being improved, from the moment there have been changes in tax law that allow the sale and processing of their products in the kitchens, in direct sales or in the sales you call them in the agricultural retail trade. And this is important, these changes are important, but these are so minor changes that you can put all of this together into a single amendment and make one decent print. Of course, it is easier not to get an agreement, although on the other hand, please, this is so-called. production of local, marginal and limited, i.e. small factories, which produce quite a lot. They make meats, they sell meat, and then they make a bet. And, of course, it is easier and faster to build such an establishment without agreement. But also, ladies and gentlemen, if it turns out that something is wrong with the project, the investor will only know about it when the check comes, which may not take it away from him. Arrangements. My question in the committee was answered: indeed, it is possible for this investor to go to the district doctor, ask him to see, watch this project. But just because a county doctor or health inspector sees it doesn't mean he won't question how it was done because he didn't conquer it on the set. Of course it's an easy one, but the question is whether it's really gonna be difficult or a problem, whether there's gonna be a conflict later, during pickup. That's one thing. Secondly, measures to facilitate, while preserving, of course, the principles of food safety, any facilitations and interests of farmers in the processing of their healthy food, processed by them without the employment of others, are certainly a glorious initiative. Only, for God's sake, to create in one Seym two projects that actually change the same laws, only in one is this tax law together with this law, and in the other it is only one provision - Well, that's typical PR. On the other hand, I will probably talk about it at night, because in a few hours, and it will be at night, we will look at the next project, which concerns the same thing - it is fantastic that we want to help farmers grow their income on farms, but maybe you would join with the legislative offensive, as far as ASF is concerned, about giving people compensation, about drought, about the things that are important for farmers at the moment, which do not increase their profitability, but allow them to survive. That's what we're talking about today. That's what the whole village is talking about and it's what they want you to set up simple compensation rules so that people know what they're gonna get, how much money they're gonna get. And here it turns out that most of the EU's money from so-called. Hogan's package will be handed over because you can't spend it on farmers. So what are they going to process in these kitchens without permission? They're gonna process pigs they don't grow anymore? They're gonna process agricultural products they don't have anymore? This is some kind of hypocrisy. And once again, Minister, shame to stand here in this House and talk about the legislative offensive, since it's just a typical job, just to show that something is being done. It's such a small change, it's a shame to come out with an amendment. I just want to remind you that the giant change was that we allowed, we introduced tax changes, according to which a farmer who wants to process - he does not become a processor but can process - he is not subject to any rigor of business activity, he only pays a registered flat-rate income tax. And it was a giant step. The next step, of course, was the previous act of the predecessor. It was going in the right direction, too. We can see now that we need to move on. It's expandable, but not with these steps. There are still no good practices, there are still no appointments in the health department when it needs to be done, and we're talking about dismissals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fantastic, I'm glad, that's all it is to play cat and mouse. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u363	Thank you very much, Madam President. And please, Mr Robert Mordak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u364	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Animal Products Act and the Food Safety and Nutrition Act. The main objective of the proposed law is to facilitate food law for those who intend to produce small-scale food and then market it. The proposed normative changes were mainly designed to address the problem of too high food safety requirements for small-scale food-producing operators and market-driven in short supply chains. Currently, entities wishing to carry out activities in the field of production of products of animal origin prior to obtaining a permit for the construction of an establishment are obliged to draw up a technological project of that establishment and send it together with a request for its approval to the district veterinarian. The bill is designed to include, among others, abolition of the obligation to implement and submit to the district veterinarian for approval of the technological project. The obligation to inform the district veterinarian of the extent and volume of production is also abolished. This makes it very easy for small-scale operators, in direct sales and marginal, local and limited activities. In addition, it is proposed to abolish the obligation for district health inspectors or border health inspectors to approve establishments producing and placing on the market food whose production takes place in premises mainly used as private homes, but where food is regularly prepared for placing on the market. These changes should also contribute to reducing regulatory burdens by e.g. shortening the time to settle formalities, reducing the number of procedures or reducing the number of documents required in general. The proposed changes should also contribute to increasing the number of small-scale food production operators and placing them on the market under short supply chains. This should in turn have a positive impact on the availability to consumers of food produced directly by Polish farmers, i.e. food of high quality. In view of the above, Kukiz15 will, of course, vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u365	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u366	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The project introduces two major changes that mitigate food law for local food production operators. The aim of the project is to market this food through short distribution chains. Of course, as my colleagues and colleagues have said, the project is very much needed, we can say that we are working on it. I have found provisions in this area since 2016. I wonder why it is only today, a month before the elections, that we adopt this bill shredded into a few projects that will be discussed in the evening, even though it seems that all the changes that are written here are obvious. What kind of changes are we talking about? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 19 of the current Animal Products Act is said to be the case that operators wishing to carry out activities in the production of products of animal origin prior to obtaining a permit for the construction of an establishment are required to draw up a technological project for the establishment and send to the district veterinarian, notify the district veterinarian in writing of the extent, volume of production and types of products of animal origin to be produced in that establishment. In addition, the district veterinarian has had to approve the technological project so far. As a result of the amendments to the above requirements, entities wishing to conduct direct sales activities, marginal, local and limited activities referred to in the legislation are to be excluded. Food business operators preparing food in rooms mainly used as private dwellings, however, where food is regularly prepared for the placing on the market referred to in Chapter. 3 Annex 2 to the Regulation will not have to be approved by district sanitary inspectors of establishments producing and placing on the market food of plant origin or mixed food. Those entities will be required to apply for entry in the register of establishments within 30 days of the start of the planned activity. As regards the revision of the provisions of these laws, it is important to ensure that such activities are supervised so that it is possible to verify compliance with food law requirements in a manner proportionate to the risks associated with its conduct. The project does not change the fact that each of the local producers referred to therein will have to comply with hygienic and sanitary conditions, will be subject to veterinary inspection and health inspection. This applies in this case to very small-scale food production, i.e. in the close surroundings of farmers, on a local scale. Food produced in this way usually has very high quality precisely due to its small scale of production, but also because this quality determines the reputation of the local producer in the environment in which the food produced by him is bought. In view of the proposed changes, consideration should also be given to whether inspections to check the quality of food preparation sites and food alone should not be more frequent. As I said at the beginning, the project is needed, only too late, but we will support this bill because consumers and local producers will actually benefit from it. Local producers are looking forward to it, so we'll support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u367	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Maliszewski made his statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Anna Cicholska, the Law and Justice Club. One minute to ask a question. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] There is no Member. Please, Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u368	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As a doctor, I have doubts as to whether it will be safe for those who eat food to relax food safety regulations. It doesn't matter that it's a small producer that he manufactures in a small plant Or at home. He'll distribute it to the people. My question: Minister, why didn't the Health Committee get this opinion? The State is now withdrawing from the law those provisions which concern food of animal origin, the most dangerous food, if any irregularities occur. Is this really the right thing to do? I believe that producers are happy and it's great for them, but are you sure it's safe for us, for those who will buy and consume it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u369	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Simon Giżyński to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank you very warmly for this warm rain of praise that has come to the initiators of this amendment, as well as for all the countries that unanimously supported it at first reading in the committee. In this sense, It's a common work. It's stripping all the malcontents of the title to look for holes in the whole thing, because these tests come out the way they come out. Thank you very much, Madam President of Sunday, for this twofold assessment of this amendment. On the one hand, in one sentence, there was a very nice and true assessment. Fantastic, I am pleased," said the Member. We take that as a fair assessment, preceded by a reading. [[♪ The bell ♪]] with understanding. But already in the second part of the complex sentence - playing cat and mouse. This means that it was a statement for political and electoral purposes. [[Minister, the same bill will be changed in three hours.]] I would also like to thank Mrs Ewie Lieder for her no longer undercover but for her express thanks and recognition in the form of It is the allegation that the changes are obvious. We would always like to make obvious changes with the unanimous support of the committee, as it was in this case. With regard to Mrs Chybicki's question, it is not so that we loosen anything - here I quote the wording. There is a simplified procedure, but only, Commissioner, in this administrative dimension. On the other hand, it is up to the Senior Convention to place the project in different committees, the closest surroundings of your marshal, not the applicant. Besides, there was no need to do so because we gave this project with absolute awareness and certainty that in veterinary legislation, in the field of sanitary regulations, nothing taunts laws, law, it is absolutely safe. No one questioned this in this decision-making process and in the course of the case. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u371	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u372	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The purpose of the draft Law on the revision of the Animal Products Act and the Food Safety and Nutrition Act is to introduce facilitations in the field of food law relating to the process of registering activities with the competent authority of official food control for operators wishing to produce small-scale food and market it in short distribution chains, thereby increasing the availability for the final consumer of food produced, inter alia. by farmers. Minister! What concrete solution will this project bring, and what facilitation does it provide for investors? Thank you. [[Polish People's Party Association - Union of European Democrats]] [[PSL Club - ED supports all initiatives aimed at improving the situation in the Polish countryside. Agriculture is in bad shape today. On the one hand, there is a drought, which significantly reduced the harvest this year and thus the income to the farm, on the other hand there are low prices for the buying-in of many agricultural fruits.]] [[The chance for a number of farms is so-called. direct sales. It's nothing more than the possibility of making processed products from those raw materials that were produced on a specific farm.]] [[The raw material for further processing may be both plant products and animal products. The latter are particularly burdened with many administrative and other requirements, including veterinary requirements. They are often impossible for a normal farm.]] [[The project provides for some facilitations in food law and this should be commended. It was proposed, among others. the removal of the obligation to draw up and submit to the district veterinarian the technological design of the establishment. In this case, it is an ordinary farm. It is also proposed to abolish the obligation of other notifications.]] [[For these reasons, our club will support this project, even though it is not a complete solution. Further simplification needs to be made in the future.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u373	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law on prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans (Print No. 2796). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Ms Justyna Anna Socha, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u374	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Messengers and Members! Who has been vaccinated in the last 10 years? [[Voices from the hall: Me.]] [[Voices from the hall: Me too.]] The State Hygiene Plant reports that in 2016 about 300,000 were vaccinated. adults... [[I get vaccinated every year.]] ...not subject to obligation. That's 1%. 30 million. [[Mr Beat Małecka-Libera: This is the problem.]] 75% Polish society is not vaccinated. Isn't that interesting? Why protective vaccination, which is associated with the possibility of serious complications, applies only to children, i.e. 25% our population? How can we talk about collective immunity in this situation? Why should only children and their parents bear the consequences of preventive vaccination in the name of the myth of resistance? Did it ever become only the economic interest of producers today to justify the forced vaccination of children? Has it not become the interest of the service providers who supply their products? Which one of you is the parent? [[The voice from the hall: Don't ask, just tell me.]] [[Voice from the room: Most of us are parents.]] Let's be honest. Who among you is a parent, is expecting a child or plans to become a parent? [[Voice from the room: We're asking you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u375	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u376	I'm the mom. Four kids. [[Voice from the room: I'm the threes.]] [[And I'm two.]] My children are Kamil, Veronica, Patricia and Emilka. [[Applause]] Did you ever wonder what made 120,000? people to support the project of the Citizen's Committee of the STOP NOP Legislative Initiative? [[Voice from the room: Lady.]] Dear Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u377	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[Voice from the room: Lack of consciousness.]] [[Voice in the room: Because you ask questions...]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. Then you can take the floor. [[Voice from the room: Propaganda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u378	Dear Marshal! Dear Messengers! Honourable Members! [[Then speak, and don't ask questions.]] Why does the Polish state today not want to take any responsibility for the complications of vaccination and yet force vaccinations to be carried out? [[Voice from the hall: What nonsense are you talking about?]] Our families are affected by complications, coercion, limitation of children's protective vaccination rights. We want our voices heard, our arguments heard. This is also asked by doctors who have been collecting signatures for the project and helping to develop it. And the lawyers who helped us create the project are also asking for this. They also believe that the current preventive vaccination system needs to be amended. Many Polish doctors for asking questions and public information about their observations were brought before medical courts or questioned: Dr. Aneta Borczyk-Kotwas, Dr. Katarzyna Bross-Walderdorff, Dr. Hubert Czerniak, Dr. Elżbieta Dąbrowska, Dr. Jerzy Jaśkowski, Dr. Andrzej Majkowski, Dr. Dorota Sienkiewicz. One of these people, Dr. Andrzej Majkowski, a pediatrician with a 32-year internship, spoke during the protest of his parents on the streets of Warsaw on 3 June this year and in a dramatic speech called for parents to have a choice. He said, "I'm a doctor who has to do protective vaccinations, he has to, because that's a law order. Any doctor who doesn't vaccinate or has a family under his care who refuses to vaccinate... This data must be given once a quarter by name, on the list, to the health care centre. It's a denomination, it's a betrayal of medical confidentiality, it's an assassination of every creature's freedom. If doctors fail to do so, they may be deprived of their jobs because they do not carry out their duties. I'm not a doctor who doesn't vaccinate. I also have children on my conscience who, despite my honest work, have been autistic children despite proper medical examination. I know that after the vaccinations, not because they were sick. These parents had to sell the house, they had three kids, they had to move to the apartment so they could afford to rehabilitate their third child. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst part is that we as doctors really want you to be treated decently by us. At this point, doctors are set to be medical police instead of doing their medical work. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] That's the worst part, because I really want to treat every patient of my own in his freedom. If he tells me that he has absolutely no intention of vaccinating his child, then I, as a doctor, have a duty to respect his will. But unfortunately, this respect for will is taken away from us because there are pressures. Imagine that a doctor working in primary health care has five employers: NFZ, the Ministry of Health, health care, the director of the centre in which he works, and the district doctor's department. I have five employers. These five employers tell me to vaccinate. And I have no choice. If you come to us to get the right medical advice so that everything is explained so that you have the safety of vaccinating your children, we must be substantive, but I beg all your pediatricians' colleagues to respect their parents' wishes. Isn't there such a dramatic appeal from a pediatrician with a long-term internship? There are many more such appeals. In Germany, there are two medical organizations requesting the necessary changes - the Association of Individual Vaccine Doctors and Active Doctors for Global Consciousness Vaccinations - requesting an individual benefit-loss balance for each child and carrying out reliable vaccine testing. We are hopeful to be seen by parents from all over the world who joined forces at the European Forum for Vaccine Vigilance, protesting together on the streets of many countries as a coalition of the International Revolution For Choice, and 130 organisations that supported the September call to the World Health Organisation for the necessary changes for the safety of children. Here I would like to thank Minister Pinkas, a representative of health inspection, that thanks to the fines all this could have happened, because it was us Polish parents who inspired international protests against the forced vaccination. Several countries around the world protested in June, among others. on our initiative, a call has been made to the World Health Organisation, which has supported 130 organisations from all over the world. This is the result of Poland's obligation to require vaccination. Why do we want our citizens' project to be adopted, and why is it so important to our children? First of all, the bill amending the law on prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans does not introduce anything unusual, nothing that would make us different from other European countries. Does the project aim to eliminate vaccination, as it is used to represent? No. So what is it? It brings the current rules into line with the European rules. Nor is it an anti-implantation project, and above all, it does not in any way cause an epidemic threat. He was born of concern for health and is to restore civil liberties. Why is that? Two types of vaccination are distinguished under the current law: protection in children, those provided for in Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the current law, and so-called. share, for all, including adults, provided for in Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the current law. Today both are mandatory in Poland. In 20 European countries, only the latter are mandatory, which are foreseen in the event of an outbreak of infectious diseases. The citizens' bill does not eliminate public vaccinations, nor eliminate preventive vaccinations, but only introduces the voluntaryness of the latter. In the media, where one of the main advertisers is pharmaceutical companies, they say: They want to go back to the Middle Ages. Is that true? Are countries like Austria, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Russia in the Middle Ages? Last year, attempts to introduce an obligation to carry out preventive vaccinations among children rejected Denmark, Finland, Sweden and Germany and Norway 3 years earlier. Why? Note: referring to respect for civil rights and the possibility of performing public vaccinations in response to a possible epidemic of this or other infectious disease. Furthermore, Finland was referred to as having no evidence that coercion would in any way promote or maintain a good range of vaccinations, on the contrary - there are studies suggesting that this may have a negative impact. Jonas Sivelä from the Finland Health Institute estimates that coercion can in the long term undermine people's confidence not only in vaccination but also in public health services in general. And this is happening in Poland. Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Who is aware that the current mandatory vaccination system violates human rights? In the event of complications that the producer himself anticipates, the parent is left to himself, rehabilitates and treats the child, he must resign from his job and, if he wants to claim, he must collect an entry for the court, forensic experts and lawyer without a guarantee of winning, and the producer has unlimited funds. Is that fair? No. The European Court of Human Rights has already challenged such a system of coercion of preventive vaccination in other countries. In the light of these judgments, Poland violates human rights. Art. 8 The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms states that everyone has the right to respect for their private and family life. The European Court of Human Rights has indicated that compulsory preventive vaccination, the use of which is inevitably linked to the possibility of vaccination complications, including death, is in breach of Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 convention. I'll name it here. judgment of 9 July 2002 Ilaria Salvetti v Italian Government and 15 March 2012 Dmitryevich v Ukraine. In the Italian case Italy was injured, which was affected by paralysis, blindness and speech disturbances as a result of compulsory polio vaccination in 1966 at the age of 5. The case concerned obtaining compensation which was due to a woman due to post-vaccination adverse reactions. The injured party submitted to the Court that the Italian State did not provide adequate compensation for the adverse reactions resulting from compulsory vaccination and therefore infringes the Article. 2 (2) 1, Article Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 12 and Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 17 conventions, i.e. the right to life, freedom and personal security, the right to marry and to establish a family, and the prohibition of abuse of rights. Since none of the provisions cited referred to the victim's situation, the Court considered the case on the basis of Article. 8 conventions, i.e. the right to private life, which includes the right to physical and mental integrity. The Court found, inter alia, that compulsory vaccinations as compulsory medical procedures constitute interference with the right to respect for private guaranteed life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] Your marshal, I have unlimited time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u379	No, you have 15 minutes. Please, you have one minute to finish. [[The voice from the room: Well, you don't have time limited.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u380	Your marshal, I know the bill, I have unlimited time. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u381	No, you don't. Ma'am, there are rules in the Seym. I'm extending your statement by one and a half minutes, and you're gonna have to finish. [[The voice from the room: PiS introduced it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u382	I absolutely won't agree to that. I know the law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: So do we.]] [[Voice from the room: Marshal Kuchcinski please report.]] [[Voice from the room: It regulates the rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u383	I'm picking up your voice in one and a half minutes. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Marshal Kuchciński.]] [[Voice from the room: Well, unfortunately.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u384	Ladies and gentlemen! I have a speech for an hour, and I'm going to finish it unless you're going to force the state to get me out of here. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u385	No, no. I'm so sorry, ma'am. The Sejm adopted the Rules of Procedure, which says that the speech must not last more than 15 minutes. I'm letting you finish. I'm giving you one and a half minutes to do this, and I'm asking you to finish your speech within one and a half minutes. [[Voice from the room: What a collision with reality.]] This applies to all, not just representatives of social associations, but also ministers. Everyone has 15 minutes here, so please follow the rules of the Sejm. [[Speaking of which, Marshal Kuchciński.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u386	The Sejm's rules are above the bill? [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately, we have to stick to it too.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Voice from the gym: Report to the government.]] [[Voice from the room: Marshal Kuchciński.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Step out of the podium.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Is this how the Polish government treats Polish families? [[Voice from the room: This is what Marshal Kuchciński does.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u387	I'm very sorry, but even the Prime Minister of the Polish Government here in the Seym has 15 minutes. Equal rights are for everyone. Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u388	We asked our parents to answer the following question. Imagine how much your life could change if your child became ill after vaccinations for a severe illness, e.g. Nervous system, and it needed constant care. We asked our parents to answer what they would say to the Members. Martha. I don't want any of them to ever have to pray for a miracle that his child survives so that he has to look at his child hooked up under apparatus, fighting the disease, so that he has to live every day in fear that his child may have a seizure. Each infection is more stress. Magdalena. I live in a country where a parent has the right to decide whether he wants to inoculate his child or not. He and his doctor are also entitled to establish an individual vaccination schedule. And no one chases him or punishes him when he wants to give up his vaccination or postpone it in time. I live in a place where in my child's public school 20% children are not vaccinated and there are no epidemics of infectious diseases. I live in a country that respects my religious beliefs about vaccination and gives me the right to refuse vaccination when they conflict with my own faith. This country is not Poland. Justyna. Our lives have turned upside down. My child is an outcast in the neighborhood because of the disorders he has after vaccination. We all are. They ruled us out because he's different, he can't handle his emotions. When we entered the sandbox, the other moms took their kids, they wouldn't let them play with my son. On the balcony they covered themselves so they couldn't be seen without contact. My son told me no one wants to play with him because he's angry. And he's just a victim of their fucking system that I believed in, and I vaccinated him. Today we're alone and no one gives us a penny for therapy. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We don't want to hear it because it's bullshit.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've got 20 pages here. [[Voice from the room: We know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u389	I'm so sorry, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u390	You're listening to the nation right now. You serve us, my dear Mr. Arłukowicz. [[There's one here who speaks in the name of the nation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u391	Ma'am, we must comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I'm asking you to close your speech. You will still have time to address the questions of Members and the club speeches. So, once again, you'll have a chance to enter the podium, and you'll also have 15 minutes to answer the questions. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] So thank you very much. And we're going to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u392	I'm not done yet, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u393	But you're out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u394	I want to sum up, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u395	30 seconds, 30 seconds. [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u396	I'd like a summary, please. I will also quote from the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings... [[Step out of the podium, please.]] ...in relation to the uses of biology and medicine due to the violation of its provisions, the failure to apply the Polish right to the Convention ratified by Poland: The interest and welfare of the human being prevails over the exclusive interests of society or science. No one has the moral right to sacrifice a child in the name of the most beautiful idea. Therefore, the project also introduces the need for the doctor to inform about which of the vaccines were formed using the cell lines of abortion...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u397	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u398	...which should make it possible for parents to use an ethical alternative.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u399	Thank you very much, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u400	Your Marshal, last sentence. [[Voice from the room: It was the last one.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u401	No, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u402	Dear Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I thank you on behalf of Polish children, on behalf of hundreds of thousands of parents of Polish children harmed by the current system, which requires changes regardless of countries and party leaders views. Once again, I would like to ask for a vote in favour of putting the project to further work, which will show respect for the affected families. Ladies and gentlemen! You will all receive the full content of this speech on the mailbox. On behalf of those 120,000. I am protesting the treatment of a nation that directly wants to pursue constitutional rights. [[Applause]] [[The PiS has limited our time.]] [[This is where one man spoke on behalf of the nation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u403	Thank you very much, ma'am. Step out of the podium. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Then you can refer to those voices that will fall in the courtroom. Please leave the platform and take your seat. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please speak first, Mr Ostrowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the citizens' draft law amending the law on prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans, print No. 2796. The project concerns the elimination of the preventive vaccination obligation. It leaves two exceptions in principle: in the case of an administrative decision and in the case of an epidemic threat to the country, i.e. in an epidemic situation. High Izbo! As far as the citizens' project is concerned, as my previous speaker said, there are 120,000. signatures. For us this is an expression of fear, concerns about the safety of preventive vaccinations, often resulting from their own experiences of Poles and Poles, which should not be underestimated. To be honest, we're not alone. In preparing for the presentation, I looked at a little bit of Internet, literature. I have chosen for you an example of France, where in 2016 a project was carried out: confidence in vaccination. The French's confidence in preventive vaccination has been investigated. It turned out that 41% respondents believe that vaccines are not safe, and this is in an intense situation in this country of prognosis propaganda. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a civic project. In line with the pre-election promises of Law and Justice, we will continue to pursue it. We don't reject such projects. [[Applause]] Personally, I am pleased because it is an excellent opportunity to discuss rational, Minister, the vaccination programme in Poland and to adapt it to safer European standards. I would like to stress with all my power before arguing that I am not opposed to vaccination, let alone undermining the effectiveness of vaccines in order to prevent infectious diseases. On the other hand, in Poland infants, children receive 16 compulsory vaccinations against 10 diseases for the first 18 months. Among the mandatory vaccinations we have two, i.e. BCG and hepatitis B, administered in the first day of life, often 2 hours after birth. In Poland it is still acceptable to use vaccines containing mercury preparations. I'm talking about thiomersal, an organic compound containing mercury. Then the blood barrier - the newborn's brain is not yet educated. Mercury is put away in the brain, causing irreversible changes. In Poland, Euvax against hepatitis B is still used in the first day. I think some of you know that a single dose of Euvax contains 25 Hbs of mercury, i.e. 83 times the dose considered safe for an adult. It is about American and European standards. Neurotoxicity of the mercury compound has been proven in a number of scientific studies, in hundreds of studies. I'm not gonna quote them. Now on the other side. In Western European countries, newborns are generally not vaccinated and mercury has not been used in vaccines for a long time. In Scandinavia, this was abandoned in the 1990s and in the European Union in 2000. In Western European countries, hepatitis B vaccination is only given to a newborn baby from a mother infected with the B virus. In Scandinavian extremes, which have enjoyed for years the best health indicators and the lowest mortality among infants, vaccinations are voluntary. In addition, the infant is only vaccinated from 3 months of age or even later. Ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering if I could quote some research or expertise here. I thought I'd do something different. I will appeal to the authority of French doctors, professors, to the appeal of French scientists from January 2018, among others. authorized by Professor Luc Montagnier, a Nobel Prize laureate in medicine for the discovery of HIV. These scientists call on the current Minister of Health as 11 mandatory vaccinations have been introduced in France since January 2018. They consider this to be a serious error in public health and health. They appeal for five things: no mandatory vaccinations during the first 2 years of life, taking into account antibodies derived from breast milk, which is recommended by the WHO, because then immunity comes from breast milk, withdrawal from the vaccination calendar of infants against hepatitis B vaccination as useless and compulsory subjecting - now note, because I think that many do not know this - immunizations to the same tests as medicines to obtain a marketing authorisation, [[Applause]] and, ladies and gentlemen, the use of non-toxic adjuvants in vaccines, e.g. calcium phosphate instead of harmful, such as aluminium hydroxide. Ladies and gentlemen, in France, it has already been forgotten that mercury preparations are administered in vaccines. I am very happy - I have a few other things here, but five minutes is not enough to say - that this subject will be taken up at the Sejm committee meeting and in the Sejm forum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope this discussion isn't useless. Let me conclude with a motion from the Marshal on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to refer the project to the joint committees: the Health Committee and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. [[Applause]] [[It's just a scandal.]] [[What scandal? What's the scandal here?]] [[You don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u405	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We have lived to see in Poland the times in which it is said that children in vitro have a furrow on their forehead. We've lived to see the time when the Seymary Speaker is talking about putting up with mandatory vaccinations, that vaccinations are bad for children to die after vaccinations, that they cause autism. The fact that you are talking about these stupid medical things can be dealt with, but the fact that the biggest club, the club running today in Poland, the PiS club says simply: We are in favour of moving on to this law... [[Out of respect for the citizens.]] ...to lift mandatory vaccinations for our children... [[Voice from the room: No one said that.]] ...this is, you know, a scandal. The fact that you don't take care of children has shown many times, but the fact that you're medically ignorant shows you in a sophisticated way once again. It is unlikely that the governing club in Poland would ask to continue working to lift mandatory vaccinations. [[Mr. Minister, you're a manipulative man.]] [[Voice from the room: Manipulant!]] It's only possible in PiS times. [[Applause]] But that's half the poverty. Here we have a photograph where Mrs Socha from the anti-vaccine movement, who just spoke here and told us all this stupidity about the harmfulness of vaccination, stands with whom in September 2015? With Minister Jak. [[Voice from the room: So what?]] The Minister of Justice of this government, Deputy Minister of Justice in 2015 says these words: In Poland there should be no obligation to immunize. [[Voice from the room: Only against rabies.]] That's not good enough. It could be assumed that Minister Jak is doing this for such a casual desire to gain some political support, but no, he goes on. Minister Jak, Minister of the Government of the PiS in February 2016 to the Chief Health Officer writes: "It should be considered as an abuse of the GIS's action on vaccination obligations. Please withdraw from these activities. Minister Jak writes to the Chief Health Officer that it is important to consider how to deal with those who do not want mandatory vaccinations. For this to be limited, he was Minister of Justice in the 21st century, in 2017, Minister Patrick Jak... [[We're talking about vaccinations.]] ... writes to Minister Radziwiłł: The procedure of coercion to vaccination constitutes discrimination against Polish citizens. [[Voice from the room: Good for you.]] Where have you guys been reading all this nonsense? [[Applause]] [[A voice from the hall: You are wise.]] [[The voice from the hall: The wise man is found.]] I address all moms and fathers, all grandmothers and grandparents. You know what they want to do to our kids? They want to endure vaccination so that those who tell such foolishness, like those who have just been spoken from this speaker, can introduce such rules that as a result smallpox and measles will return to Polish schools, what is already happening today. Do you know names like typhus, damn yellow fever? Do you know those names? Did you hear anything about that? At least read it in Wikipedia. [[Applause]] [[The smallpox vaccine is not mandatory, sir.]] Keep your mouth shut. Now I'm talking. Read it in Wikipedia. There's basic medical information. You have led to such a situation that today Poles are debating things that were debated in Europe and the world 50, 100 and 200 years ago. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit!]] You are at the stage of receiving that in Poland vaccinations of our children are mandatory. [[You're full of shit.]] Keep your mouth shut. Read it. Take it easy. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u407	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u408	Therefore, the Civic Platform Club - I say this in capital letters, and to the Minister I say this in double capital letters - makes a request to reject this law at first reading. [[Applause]] She should never be here. [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] And we will reject every bill that will harm our children, our women, our parents. [[What about abortion? An abortion promotion?]] You are introducing laws that are harmful to people, harmful to Poles. [[And you're all for killing children before they're born.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u409	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u410	That's enough, you say you'll vote for them. Minister of the Polish government Patryk Jak says out loud that he believes that vaccination is a limitation of the freedom of people. [[Of course.]] What nonsense are you talking about? Do the Warsawers hear that? [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] Patrick Whatever he wants to be president of your city, and he says clearly that the obligation to immunize is to limit the freedom of people. Minister Jak! Now, if you'll just focus for a second. Minister Jak, a moment of focus. Do you want smallpox and measles in school to be introduced? [[Smallpox vaccination is not mandatory.]] And I'm not talking about Oder Opole, I'm talking about measles, I'm talking about disease. Do you understand that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And you're talking about smallpox.]] [[The voice from the hall: What he spoke not of Oder, but of the Vistula.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u411	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz Club15. And I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think on this subject we should definitely avoid emotional statements... [[Then avoid it.]] ...because when it comes to health, about children, we should talk calmly first... [[Voice from the room: Do not shout.]] ...don't heat this atmosphere, because it's already overheated. We have a citizens' bill signed by 120,000. persons. From what I can tell, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the hall: How many doctors are there?]] I don't know if they're right or wrong, but I'm convinced that if they signed, they have some concerns, which is why we should talk about it. I am convinced that vaccinations are important, that vaccinations have certainly reduced or eliminated epidemics in many countries. I'm sure they've kept a lot of people from just losing their lives. On the other hand, we are dealing with a civil project signed, as I have mentioned, by a very large number of people, so even to calm these people down - especially if there is a division in this Chamber, if some say that the project is good, others say that it is not - which we have quite a large group, we should talk to them. That is why I think the project should be addressed to the committee. Let the experts take care of him, not necessarily Members, because I bet there aren't too many experts here who know about vaccinations... [[Bartek knows what he's talking about.]] ...and I think that such people will be able to explain a lot of the substantive issues that they will be able to talk to within the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The pediatrician just spoke.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u413	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Rucińki, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: Well, the doctor will be speaking now.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to point out that, as a Member, of course, I respect the voice of the citizens who signed up for this project, but speaking of vaccinations, I am not able to speak solely as a parliamentarian. I am a doctor with 40 years of practice in the profession, and I want to evaluate the bill from this perspective. In the first sentence of the explanatory memorandum to the citizens' bill amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in People, we can read that it serves to eliminate the preventive vaccination obligation. Based on modern medical knowledge and more than 200 years of research on vaccines, as well as the experience gathered at that time, I am convinced that the purpose of the law indicated by the applicants leads to the complete disqualification of this draft law. Let me also quote a passage from the opinion of the Chief Medical Council. It reads: "The bill must be assessed as dangerous to health safety." Such a clear view indicates the consistent opinion of epidemiology and medicine specialists who have analysed this project. In many studies on vaccination, one can see that they are a victim of their success. As an example, I can give you measles against which mandatory vaccinations were introduced in Poland while I was still in college. In those years, an average of 400 people per 100,000. It was a serious illness. Luckily for us, vaccination was introduced in 1975. Since then, the incidence of measles has gradually decreased with the increase in prognosis, and cases of measles have been individual. It is true that vaccinations do not guarantee 100% effectiveness. None of the doctors will say that each vaccine is safe, but even the person who, despite vaccination, has not acquired sufficient immunity is protected by some kind of protective umbrella, which is spread over it by members of our population in which the vaccine was adopted, thus not giving the virus the possibility to spread. At this point, I would like to address the applicants who are demanding amendments to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, there are people among us, we often pass them on the street, which for many reasons cannot be vaccinated. They're either cancer patients or those who are before or after transplants. They're fighting for recovery. Exposure to infection by a child who, if lucky, will pass the disease without complications, for many of these people, e.g. receiving immunosuppressants will be a death sentence. A simple coughing in a tram or an elevator meeting can have much more serious consequences for others who are not even vaccinated. The social responsibility to abolish compulsory vaccination would be enormous. Each of those in favour of similar solutions should first of all go to regions where diseases that we consider not to have been eradicated have not been eradicated. Polio or pertussis aren't diseases that can't come back. Therefore, from the beginning of its existence the Modern pays attention to the extremely important role of prevention and postulates in its program, among others. health contributions relief not only for those who are vaccinated on a timely basis with their children, but above all for those who are vaccinated against influenza. Such persons should also be rewarded because they generate much lower costs for the health system. We must appreciate this responsibility. The benefits of vaccination are many times greater than the risks involved. Modern, for which citizens' health is an absolute priority, will vote against this amendment. I would also like to draw attention to one important issue, in my view, concerning the road from production to vaccination. You must know that vaccines require special storage and transport. I myself witnessed in one of the drugstores - I can't say in which city - how flu vaccines have been thawed many times. What is the quality of these vaccines? Of course, it's much worse. In the nearest family, someone vaccinated in the 1960s with Koprowski's vaccine, Salka from Russia did not know it was a vaccine with a poorly attenuated virus. That virus was still dangerous. This man is suffering from severe meningitis and brain disease. Luckily, he came out of it, and he didn't have polio. So let's pay attention. mainly on the way of production, which is well controlled today, but also on the way of distribution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] transport and transfer. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u415	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u416	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on the citizens' draft law amending the law on prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in people, print No. 2796. Dear Applicants! The project we are working on assumes the opening of a dangerous gate: the abolition of the vaccination obligation. Vaccinations are the greatest discoveries of medicine and the most effective tools to combat infectious diseases. Their widespread use minimises the risk of fatal epidemics that have been decimating the population in the past. Ladies and gentlemen, both scientific research and practical clinical experience demonstrate the indisputable effectiveness of vaccination. We're on the side of doctors and patients. We are categorically opposed to the abolition of compulsory vaccinations and the introduction of freedom in this area. We strongly support the proposal to reject this project at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u417	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Circle of Liberal and Social Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I met with the applicant, Mrs Justyna Anna Socha, during the election campaign 3 years ago, and watched her struggle for free vaccination. I would like to commend you for your civic attitude, for the commitment that is missing so much right now, which we are very often discussing here in the Parliament hall. But that would be all about the compliments and advantages of your bill. Many arguments have already been made regarding health aspects, threats. Since I am an economist, not a doctor, I have prepared my speech from a different point of view, more with a view to approach to human rights or generally education, awareness of our society. First of all, you must not underestimate the voice of more than 100,000. citizens, even if we disagree with this vote. What does it tell us about a country, a society, that so many people are willing to fight for a law judged by most experts as socially harmful? Is it really hysteria, or are these emotions that, like infectious disease, have spilled over a society so susceptible to superstition and superstition? Or is it a lack of trust in state institutions? This is, I think, a moment for us to answer this question as Members. Or is it a lack of trust, especially in medical care, in health care, which, for various reasons, are no longer able to be an authority for society? Of course, science assumes the possibility of verifying new hypotheses and creating new claims, but from the point of view of something such as social security, certain scientific truths should not be questioned. However, this is not the case and it seems that the State has neglected these educational aspects of the need for vaccination. Secondly, we are talking here about human rights, freedom of choice. The problem of voluntary vaccination is actually a question about the boundaries of individual or group freedom within society and its institutions. This is a question of how broad this freedom is to be and how we liberals should define ourselves in this situation. I would like to make this clear: liberalism does not undermine the rule of law. There is no such thing as individual freedom to everything. The rule of law serves to protect the majority from not always having a right minority. I have the impression that this is the situation in the case of the amendment discussed today. This bill is not a good bill, it is a law that, instead of protecting children, can put our children in danger. The largest parliamentary club has already declared, together with the Kukiz club, that it will be in favour of referring this law to further work in committee. I understand that this is going to happen. However, let us ask ourselves what this debate will look like. Should this be a scientific debate that has been going on for decades? I think it's a strict aspect. Members of the Health Committee should not take medical action in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u419	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, a non-member Member. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, after the vaccine?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u420	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It's the beginning of the 21st century, but for a moment it's been so dark sometimes dark ages in this room. It was like a witch hunt, and it was because of Mr Arłukowicz. [[Applause]] His speech sounded as if he were really afraid of this debate. As if really the subject of child protection, their safety, the safety of vaccination was an absolutely taboo topic that must not be discussed. [[Corrigendum.]] It sounded a little like pharmaceutical companies talking here today, not a Member of the Parliament of the Republic representing citizens, that's what it sounded like. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This citizens' proposal is an opportunity for a real debate, a debate on topics that have been mentioned both by those who, like me, will vote in favour of directing this project to further work in committees and by Mr Ruciński. Thank you for being an opponent of this project, but his voice is substantive. His voice is the voice in the security debate on doubts about storage. There are doubts about too early vaccination, such as those of other vaccines. This is a debate on human safety, on child safety at a very early stage of development, a key stage of development. [[Applause]] And that's how it should be done. Let's take advantage of it, consider it an opportunity. There is only a danger that such voices as Mr Arłukowicz will cause this debate to be destroyed in the political beat of foam. Then we really won't talk, we won't debate, or, when, what kind of vaccine, at which point it can be or is allowed. [[Voice from the room: Is he a threat?]] Whether it makes sense or it should be and how. Does the Polish State take responsibility if it commands parents? Does he also take responsibility for complications, complications, if they happen, or closes his eyes? We've got to clear this up. [[Voice from the room: This needs to be explained.]] We need to discuss this, we need to debate it. You can't scream that. Because those who try to scream it may not realize it, maybe they do not have enough imagination, they have the opposite effect. They reinforce the belief that the obligation to vaccinate, that early vaccination, in the first days after birth, is the result of some kind of machination, because it is not allowed to discuss it, because it is not subject to debate, because it is not subject to assessment, because it is not subject to confrontation. The meetings of the committee should be confronted primarily by experts. And I'm all for it. I call for this from this point on at the moment when this debate begins, because we can see that it will take place in committees, so that the committee presidents try to limit the political factor, including numerically, in the Chamber, and focus on the fact that applicants and opponents of applicants can invite experts. These should be long committee meetings, these should be long committee meetings, these should be committee meetings, on which the Polish Parliament will really debate, will work the subject from A to Z, and not as usual: on the head and with the political beat of foam. That's what this debate should look like, because it's not that big of a deal. Yes, all aspects must be taken, including aspects of public, social and epidemiological safety. Of course they have to be considered, but they have to sound complex. High Seym! I appeal for this and ask the applicants whether they want such a debate or whether they want a debate with their experts, a substantive debate. I call for this to be a demonstration of the new quality of the parliamentary debate, because what these debates usually look like and what it looks like to make lawmaking, does not give a proud testimony to this House. I call for this, for the sake of the public good, for the welfare of children, for civil liberties, to hold a fair, deep debate. Maybe it'll lead to the fact that we're not going to revolutionize this system. So what to change for the better, and how to calm the concerns of these citizens with real changes, so that there is no danger that children will actually be harmed in all this? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u421	Thank you very much, sir. Please, in the procedure of correcting Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u422	Mr President, I must correct your statement, and I must worry you too. I'm not afraid of you or PiS or Kaczynski... [[The voice from the room: We have you.]] ...and I tell people the truth, and I say this directly to all Poles: PiS under the hand of the people and Kukiz wants to work on a bill that will bear the responsibility of vaccination of our children. [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]] [[This is a second performance.]] I will repeat in capital letters: PiS under the hand with nationalists and Kukiz wants to work on a law abolishing the obligation to immunize. So much for corrigendum. [[Applause]] [[That's not a correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u423	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Wilk, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am an unattached Member, I have very little time, so I will try to address this issue literally at the points. High Izbo! First of all, point one, what this law proposes is the introduction of a certain standard of civilization, which applies in 20 civilized countries, e.g. at our neighbor's, like the Germans. [[The voice from the hall: So, the Germans are medieval?]] Secondly, I would like to point out that in Germany several million immigrants from countries have been admitted, in which very often many people have not even heard of preventive vaccinations for many different diseases, but Germany has not introduced preventive vaccinations in children, because this is what we are talking about, although there have been such pressures. Thirdly, we are talking about preventive vaccinations, that is, for children, not for public vaccinations, which are in case of an epidemic that is to remain. This bill, this project doesn't change that. Fourthly, High Izbo, let's deal with the biggest stupidity or maybe the deception of vaccines. Many times I've heard, many times, that vaccines are the best-tested medicines of all kinds. [[The voice from the room: Worst!]] The Ministry of Health, ladies and gentlemen, has been asked many such questions, among others. Gazeta Wyborcza asked if there are studies on whether the Ministry of Health has research on the safety and efficacy of vaccines. Here is the answer, the essence itself, I will read to you, the responses of the Ministry: The Ministry of Health did not develop studies containing the data indicated in the letter. The principle of maintaining all preventive vaccinations in the preventive vaccination programme is dictated by the demands of experts and recommendations issued by the Sanitario-Epidemiological Council at the Chief Sanitary Inspector and the Paediatric Expert Team. It's a protection vaccination program at the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health is not in possession of the requested documents and information and the Ministry of Health does not know whether any office in Poland has such documents. Let's translate it into Polish: no authority or body in Poland has research to confirm the effectiveness and safety of vaccinations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a medical experiment, and since so, according to the Polish constitution, no one can be subjected to medical or scientific experiments without its consent. So the question is, does the Ministry have the consent of all parents who have vaccinated their children for a medical experiment in the form of vaccination? Does he have one? I'm afraid not. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: there is a risk, there must be a choice, because our children are our greatest value, and there is a risk. It's all over now. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, there are epidemics among our children, and you know what kind? An unprecedented number of cancers in children, an unprecedented number of autisms in children, an unprecedented number of allergies in children. [[Is that evidence?]] You have to ask yourself what the reasons are. Don't laugh at it, Madam, because you don't know the answer to that question either. [[I'm not laughing, I'm asking for evidence.]] I'd like to know, too. This is what the debate is supposed to be about, among other things. on a case like this so we can discuss it. This is a serious topic, but if Mr Arłukowicz draws his knowledge from Wikipedia, congratulations. If you have such studies that confirm the effectiveness and safety of vaccines, show them to me, because I haven't gotten to them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u425	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Sanocki, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank the citizens who organized and urged the Sejm to debate on a fundamental subject, because it concerns security and civil liberties, which affect civil liberties. Where is the limit of state interference, society, is it necessary? Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Winnicki and Mr Wilk have said, this is a real opportunity for the Polish Parliament to seriously reflect on this subject. Mrs Lieder is asking for evidence. My wife is a psychologist, there's an incredible increase in autism, extraordinary, avalanche, and no one can... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment. [[Medical evidence.]] Then who's representing the brains? The gentleman whose name I won't mention, because he's about to straighten out here, which means he's gonna be going out on the stand twice, presented himself from a position such that he represents here the intelligent part of the room. The fact remains, he presented the darkness in the highest edition, which avoids debate, avoids discussion. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, absolutely... I still have a bon mot for you, but I'll save this for last. Well, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I am very pleased that the proposal will be addressed to the debate. And I really call on you to move away from this very political treatment: what he said is a Member whose name, not to mention, is using it in an election campaign. Dr. Ruciński's speech was very substantive... [[Exactly.]] ...but, Doctor, do you realize that you've made arguments against the vaccination obligation? It's obvious, Doctor. You have argued that no one guarantees storage, etc., which prompts debate on this subject. [[Where's the ethics?]] However, in order to end this, I will answer to the Member. Mr President, you have mentioned several diseases for which there are vaccines. For a red plague vaccine to be invented, sir, I would be the first to vote in favour. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u427	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Klawiter, non-attached Member. [[You think of some joke because it's heavy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are facing an extremely important social problem that we cannot sweep under the rug. Because in medicine, it's called Primum non nocere. [[Nocere. I'm gonna do it.]] I am therefore surprised and appeal to Mr Arłukowicz not to throw so many invectives at his fellow Members from this speaker, but to give a substantive justification for his actions. [[I read books.]] I am amazed that the Civic Platform, which is so pro-European, forgot at one point that 20 European countries - Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom, etc. - has this system right here. Does that mean that something is politically incorrect, it doesn't matter that they do? Let's analyze it. I, too, am opposed to the revolution, but we need to seriously think about it, seriously considering every move in this area. Each disease is about hundreds of thousands of vaccinations. After all, we have in Poland, let's say, about 400,000. children. We must therefore refer to the proposal that the project is talking about. It's an independent system, a different recording system. Because he can't have a fox watching the hen house. There must be an independent system for recording actual situations related to the so-called. NOPs. An objective analysis of the content of vaccines is needed. If we're saying that we're still using mercury vaccines as, let's say, an element that we've known for decades, that it's demoting for the human body, that means something's not right with us. If we take it calmly, it means something's wrong. Because there are also vaccines that don't have it. We can't just walk past this case. We must demand such control of these vaccines as is the case with medicines, because they are subject, so to speak, to mass use. There's no... Every reasonable person has to agree that we have a lot of problems in this area and we can't just let it go - some politically correct verdict that we're eliminating. We need to think about it. And that must actually be very objective analyses. I'd like to know if there was an epidemic in these 20 countries, how many people died, etc. How is it that it can work there, and we don't know if the Poles are retarded or what? I am therefore strongly in favour of referring this to the committee, discussing the problem. There, let's try to find substantive reasons. But I will expect very precise analyses, and epidemiological and statistical analyses, which will allow us to take a position. And now, unfortunately, this is just a preliminary game, and there are too many political arguments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u429	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u430	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, in the Committee on European Affairs, you have expressed your firm view that the government will be behind mandatory vaccinations. I see you're gonna have a problem with that. And I would like you to provide us with statistics on the findings of adverse post-vaccination reactions, but at the same time on how morbidity can look without these vaccinations in compulsory form. I would also like to know if there is an increase in the incidence of diseases that have already been absent in Europe in Europe at the moment, which is apparent and whether it is sometimes directly proportional to the fact that there are no mandatory vaccinations in some countries. And tell me what's at stake for the children who are vaccinated, and they'll be in a group with uninstalled children who carry the root of the disease. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u431	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not underestimate your presence here, on the contrary, I lean on this project with full seriousness. Because you are extremely dangerous. If you bring to the Sejm a bill that the earth is flat, supported in space by dinosaurs, [[Applause]] It would be a joke space, but there's no space here. The state here represents extremely dangerous forces. I'd like to show you something. This is Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the later president of the United States. At the age of 39, he developed a polio disease called Heine-Medin's disease. Earlier, a healthy man, athletic, spent the rest of his life in a wheelchair. He's become a sick man. In the Polish Parliament, speaking of vaccinations and polio, we should mention those compatriots we should be proud of. Professor Koprowski, inventor of polio vaccine. It was thanks to him that 250,000 were vaccinated in the Congo in 1958. children. This is the way of civilization and health, not [[♪ The bell ♪]] the path of sickness and death, which you have brought to the Polish Sejm, shame and shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u433	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u434	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Today I listened to Minister Szumowski's statements on TV, which expressed great concern about the decline in the number of vaccinations in Poland. In one of his statements of July this year, the Minister drew attention to the increase in migration to Europe and the increase in birth rates as arguments for the need to adapt the vaccination rules. I understand that speaking of adaptation, the Minister meant the need to maintain the current rules, because vaccines protect us and our children, and they do not harm us. If it were the other way around, Emil von Behring would not have received the Nobel Prize in 1901 for a diphtheria vaccine. However, the more important question is whether weakened health care is ready to deal with the effects of diseases that may occur and which we are currently not experiencing and which are not affected by vaccinations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! This project takes us back to the time before the most important discoveries...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u435	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u436	I'm almost done, Marshal. ...in the history of humanity. We can assume that voluntary decision-making on vaccinations brings us to the Middle Ages, and that designers are putting us in mortal danger...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u437	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u438	...emergences of epidemics and their deadly harvest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u439	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u440	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was terrified to listen to the justification of this project and read this anti-vaccine bill project. This bill threatens the lives and health of children. Children are the greatest good of all of us, of every family, but also of every country that should protect this good. And he's protecting them. Do you think that I, who has been fighting for 43 years for the lives of children with cancer, when a parent comes in and says that he wants to go under water from a spring in Upper Pniewie to replace the child with a cancer treatment, a standard one, because it's a parent? [[But you don't know each other. Winnicki knows each other.]] And in this case, Polish law states that I should report it to the prosecutor's office. How can parents deprive their four, three, two children of their right to life? Maybe this baby wants to be vaccinated. It's small, it trusts them. I believe that this bill [[♪ The bell ♪]] It shouldn't be procedated at all. There's a lot of knowledge about this, there's a lot of scientific work, there's expert statements. You have to read them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u441	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Beata Małecka-Libera, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u442	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, you represent the Ministry of Health today, but you are also a national public health consultant, and I think we understand very well here that we are talking about the health of our entire society. When you made changes to your calendar three years ago. concerning pneumococci, it was clear that an educational debate should be launched, that there is a problem with understanding and health awareness. This problem is growing. Three years have passed, and I do not recall the expert debate, which Members are asking for here at the moment, which would clearly resolve this problem. Unless I don't know something. So I'm asking if this type of action has been taken, and if not, will it be done? My second question, Minister, is specific. I'd like to hear your official position. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ministry of Health on compulsory vaccination and the presence of children in kindergartens. We know that empowerment is one of the most important elements here, and I would like to know this position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u443	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u444	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I want to take advantage of the situation that I see Mr. Pinkas. It's a shame we're talking about this. I also want to ask you a question. What is the position of the Ministry of Health, the PiS government in relation to this bill? And I would like to ask, if that was the case, that you were going to initiate the debate, did you do nothing again? Because I have here two decisions of the Council of Ministers, which appointed you as a proxy for the organisation of public administration structures in the field of food safety, which obliged you twice as a proxy to submit quarterly reports. I have been looking for you in all the institutions for two years, and I am looking for those reports that you were supposed to report on the Council of Ministers' decision. You didn't do it. What's more, you took 10 800 gross a month, 150,000. plus 38,000. bonuses. You deleted it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And to this day, there are no results. The same was true of the debate you were about to hold. What's the government's position? [[Applause]] [[Chief Health Inspector Jarosław Pinkas: Ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u445	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an extremely interesting debate, but I have the impression that the arguments ad personam, which are used here, are completely inappropriate. Madame, I have sent an answer to your interpellation to the Marshal of the Sejm, perhaps you simply do not open the mailbox. [[You've got to be kidding me.]] I'd like you to know when you were sending those interpellations. I did my job. I also want to say that I have a great sense of satisfaction because for a year, not for 2 years, I have been a government proxy for matters of the widely understood Food Safety Act, because I think I have led to a situation where we can all be sure that in the near future nothing will happen that would result in a loss of confidence in the best food we have in Poland. Thank you very much. [[One word of correction, Marshal.]] [[You're thinking about vaccines.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u447	Please, Mrs Dorota Sunday. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u448	I'm getting all the correspondence. You were at my permanent subcommittee meeting, which you were obliged to do. I asked for these documents to be sent. There's not a single box on it until today. I asked the Prime Minister to make you do it. [[Government position.]] We don't have a single regulation, your decision as to what you were going to do... It's about two decisions of the Council of Ministers. You have a duty as a proxy to present a half-yearly report to the President of the Council of Ministers. There isn't one. What's the government's position?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u449	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u450	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is the 21st century, and in the Polish Parliament we talk about goose and goosebumps. I don't understand how this Seym can even be dealt with by such a law. It's a scandal, it's a disgrace. I thank Mr Stasiński for bringing President Roosevelt here. What do you say, ma'am, to all the parents who will be sentenced to care for such a child if this project passes? And don't make any selfies right now, because this is really serious. You're probably trying to raise political capital because you've run for office once before. You probably want to run for office again. That's the most important thing about what you want. You don't give a damn about children's welfare. You're really... [[She was on the same list, and I will remind you of what you have said.]] That's right. Ladies and gentlemen, this lady is really making political capital, and she doesn't care if these children are healthy or sick, because she's eating exactly, ladies and gentlemen, she just ignores it. You're actually an extremely dangerous person. You're an extremely irresponsible person. You should leave this House. [[Your marshal, these are personal invectives.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u451	Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u452	Says the master about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u453	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u454	Minister! High Izbo! I'll start at the end. I would like to address Mr Law and Justice. Mr. Speaker! For 3 years the PiS government has been filling young Poles with mercury. And you didn't do anything about it? For three years you've been feeding young Poles, children who receive vaccines, those dangerous substances you've been talking about. And you didn't do anything about it? They're the Himalayas of hypocrisy. Either you're lying here or you're lying there. You have to make up your mind. I think it's here and there. I want to ask your representative about the ethical issue, because we need to talk about it too. I would like to ask who should take these victims on conscience, i.e. children who, for example, should stop vaccination. Are they gonna get tuberculosis? How does your committee deal with this? Who should take responsibility for a person who is not vaccinated who is going to be infected with this disease and who cannot be vaccinated and who would like to? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who should take responsibility for this? And one more question: How do you think, in Poland, if vaccination stops, the level of diseases such as pertussis, tuberculosis, polio, measles...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u455	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u456	Will it stay at the current level, fall or rise? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u457	Thank you very much, sir. Please, with a formal proposal from Mr Winnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u458	Mrs. Marshal! With a formal request to change the mode of discussion. I would ask your marshal to urge Members such as Mr Kobyliński not to attack ad personam, for example applicants. You can disagree with them, you can criticize them, but the insinuations are just inappropriate. You're doing exactly what a lot of people, including me, opposed here. The point is not to flatten this debate, not to flatten it, and not to make it a big political dance. I strongly urge your marshal to keep an eye on this as well. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u459	Thank you very much. I ask Members to remain calm in this Chamber, because emotions are very large. [[Voice from the room: Then do not allow it.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Let's not get all excited here. Another Member, Anna Siarkowska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representative of the Citizens' Legislative Initiative, Honestly, I'm embarrassed by the contempt that goes to over 100,000. citizens who signed the citizens' bill. [[Including doctors.]] And let me put it this way: at this point, this is not a debate, whether we agree with the merits of the bill or disagree. People come to the Sejm with a specific case. It's our duty to listen to them. [[How was the abortion, Member?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u461	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u462	Really scandalous are the words of the former Minister of Health who exclaims to the representative of the legislative initiative that he does not want to hear it. He speaks on behalf of his club: we don't want to hear it. That is your duty, that is the duty of all Members in this House. Take this to heart. [[Applause]] [[Easy, easy.]] Our task at this point is to reflect on the issue with which citizens come to us. My question to the representative of the citizens' legislative initiative: Could you explain to me such a term: non-ethical vaccines? What are the so-called things at all? Unethical vaccines? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u463	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u464	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! Before I ask my question, I would like to answer the applicant's question. I've got three vaccinateds, I'll mark them, kids. I understand that as a fearless parent, you have a need to listen, but so many citizens have signed this project and so many citizens because of the lack of medical knowledge in society, if for example. It is about the risk for newborns or children with cancer to meet an uninsulated child, e.g. The host of the pertussis or, God forbid, measles. Meeting such an uninsulated child is probably a death sentence and at least a very serious life-threatening one for the newborn child and for the child with cancer. Is that what you're considering? And the question to the applicant: In addition to the case of 1961, which is 57 years ago, do you know any evidence, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you have any evidence of a tragic vaccinal condition? Isn't that just evidence?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u465	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u466	Because the psychological proof of Mr Sanocki's wife, of course, is insufficient.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u467	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u468	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen and ladies! Minister! Representatives of the Legislative Initiative! I listened to that voice, and the only thing that comes to mind is that there's no education, no awareness of the consequences of this approach. It just shows that pharmaceutical companies should get involved so that we can talk about the matter with knowledge and awareness. [[Conflict of interest.]] And I'll tell you more, and I'll tell you more... Yeah, conflict of interest. What is more important - social and collective responsibility? I believe that the greatest achievement, one of the most important achievements of this civilization, is vaccine protection. And what Mr Ruciński said, they became hostages [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your own success. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u469	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u470	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is one of the most beautiful days since I became an envoy. Thank you very much for this very substantive discussion, except for a few cabaret-political speeches. This discussion is on a level, and I hope that it will be on the committees as well. I have a question, I think, for the Minister. Minister, do you think that Polish parents love their children less than German, British, Spanish parents? Minister, do you think... Otherwise, where did 93% come from You're not going to vaccinate your doctor with a vaccine recommended for your doctor? Did you ask yourself that? The level of trust of Poles in health care is zero today, but that doctors do not trust the Minister? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u471	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u472	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I wanted to respond to one of the PiS messengers who spoke about the signatures they had collected. Let me remind you that in the case of a referendum against unprepared textbooks and overcrowded classes, i.e. against the so-called. pseudoreform of Minister Zalewska, 910 thousand were collected. You signed it and threw it all in the trash, and Minister Zalewska got flowers for it today. That's one thing. Secondly, to answer whether the lack of vaccination is dangerous, I will say that in Ukraine only nine people have died of infectious diseases since the beginning of this year and nearly 10,000 have died. He was hospitalized. Since 2016, only dozens of people have died of measles in the European Union. These are facts. And one more fact. This is Deputy Minister of Justice Patrick Jak. Shoulder to shoulder with the applicant a few years ago [[♪ The bell ♪]] He argued against compulsory vaccination of children.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u473	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u474	Against the health and life of children. Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u475	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jacek Wilk, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u476	Before I ask a question, let me just repeat what I said at the beginning. From the letter of the Minister of Health, which I quoted, it is clear that neither the Ministry of Health nor any other body has research on the safety and efficacy of vaccines, and this is one great experiment on children. Now, here's the question. As a lawyer, I have participated in court cases involving parents who have refused to vaccinate children, especially newborns. And from those opinions... During these cases doctors often give opinions, who say that it is barbaric, that in the first day of a child's life, when it is impossible simply to rule out certain contraindications, the child gets three vaccines in Poland, three vaccines. In fact, by the third month it should not get any, and preferably until the third year of age it should not be vaccinated. And now my question to the representatives of the applicants. Please tell us how it works in Poland, and actually the NOP reporting system, which is undesirable vaccination reactions, does not work, and what are the reservations here, what are the problems associated with this system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u477	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u478	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The level of this debate has been embarrassing from the outset. The subject we are discussing concerns Polish society, our children, our health, while the fact that Mrs Socha did not have the opportunity to... [[Voice from the room: Louder.]] ...a statement due to a change in the PiS regulations... Well, it's just 120,000, as I understand it, people signed this application, so this hour would have to be given back to Mrs. Sosha. None of us, to be honest, except maybe Dr. Ruciński, knows the matter in such a way as to speak competently about it. As I understand it, PiS... [[Voice from the room: There are more doctors here.]] Oh, I'm sorry, except for those of you who have medical education. But most of us don't have that education. As I understand it, you will support this proposal to go to the committee, and I therefore ask the Minister to arm the knowledge of us Members. Whether the vaccines eliminated infectious diseases. Yes or no? To what extent? To what extent should we anticipate the risk that individuals will not be vaccinated if they have the possibility, and what will this mean, or the possible rebirth of these infectious diseases in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u479	Thank you very much. Mrs Alicja Kaczorowska, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u480	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was going to say that health safety is indisputable value, but it's not a constant value. Well, when it's in dynamic balance. Now, as far as epidemiology is concerned, it is in this dynamic balance through vaccination. I wanted to introduce you to the vaccination cycle. The first period before the vaccine was invented is a large number of infectious diseases. Then came the vaccination period, this disease dropped. Now there's a period of increased fear of vaccinations. Because there's a lower incidence, there's a fear of vaccinations. I'm afraid there'll be an increase in the number of diseases later, because children or adults will not be vaccinated. I have a question for the applicants and the Minister, namely: Is the fear due to the possibility of controlling vaccines with mercury salts or other vaccines? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't there too little education to cause fear? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u481	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Ostrowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u482	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna start off a little unusual, because I'm gonna put a question to Minister Arłukowicz. Does the Minister know that last week, perhaps, Chancellor Merkel spoke in public, saying that she would not force her people to immunize? Or would you have classified her as a dark place? That's once. Second thing: I wanted to tell my friend that I'm a doctor, too, just like Dr. Ruciński's friend. I am a specialist in the field of internship and generally of course I have mostly an idea of what I'm talking about. Two questions for the Minister. First of all, why are we vaccinating the boys with a rose? After all, we know that rubella is a disease that is generally dangerous, it is a danger for pregnant girls, and we also have mandatory vaccinations for boys' rubella twice in MMR. I'm gonna talk about measles because I'd like to dispel some myths. Twice you've invoked measles, for example, when you say it's a very dangerous disease. After all, it was what old pediatricians remember, the mildest infectious disease. I don't know if the Minister knows, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the number of people - literally a few sentences - who died in the United States of America because of measles is many times smaller than those who died because of the vaccine reactions of those vaccinated against measles. There are no similar statistics in Europe, so that... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u483	Thank you very much. Mrs Bernadette Krynick, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u484	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Europe, we know different forms of vaccination obligation. In countries with high health awareness such as Sweden, Norway and Finland, despite the lack of compulsory vaccination, high vaccination rates of the entire population are maintained. A debate on this issue is needed, for example, to raise public awareness of the benefits of vaccination. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I am speaking primarily because I was provoked by Mr Arłukowicz. Today we had the opportunity to see Mr Arłukowicz's hysterical speech. You were screaming from the podium. Don't you want to talk about vaccination? What are you afraid of? That pharmaceutical companies are gonna lose because of this? Are you telling the public that we want to lift the vaccination obligation? You're talking nonsense. We have democracy in Poland and we want to talk about controversial topics. During the election campaign, we said that we were going to prosecute civil laws, and we were going to keep our word. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Corrigendum.]] Mr President, you are flying to Brussels complaining about the Polish government, breaking the law. Mr. Schetina is crying in Angela Merkel's sleeve, and you should know that there are no mandatory vaccinations in Germany and Belgium. [[Corrigendum. Briefly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u485	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u486	I just have a question for the Minister. Important: Minister, since which year have vaccines in Poland been deprived of mercury and aluminium salts? Thank you. [[I can't let you...]] [[Correct what? What are you gonna do?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u487	You're welcome. But very calmly, sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u488	You're welcome. I have to correct. I will not refer to the words of the Member because it is a waste of time. To the Minister: I wanted to correct whether the government is for or against? Because just now Radziwiłł said on Radio RMF that he thinks this bill should end up in a basket.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u489	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u490	Is the government for or against it? [[But you're not making it right!]] [[Voice from the hall: But the Minister won't answer!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u491	Thank you very much, sir. Don't abuse the correction mode. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. We have a few more questions, then the Minister will be on the stand and will speak. Please, Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u492	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first formal issue that my predecessor raised: we have accepted the principle that we do not reject citizens' projects, we try to be consistent. Indeed, the pro-abortion bill was an exception, but it was so ugly that it could not be tolerated. The charge of going back to the Middle Ages - untapped. After all, this famous West is different from ours. Each of us knows that this is an important subject for society. It doesn't matter if there are 10 or 50 times more followers or not. The PiS rapporteur did not say that he was opposed to vaccination and clearly indicated that discussion would be important. Perhaps, after this discussion, there is room for possible changes or not, such as the use of thiomersal, vaccination calendar or vaccine standards. Unfortunately, the angry tone of some people's statements and the used dams or invectives prove that some people should be vaccinated. [[♪ The bell ♪]] yet against one dangerous, deadly infectious disease. And I don't mean the one that Mr Sanocki was talking about. [[Voice from the room: Very substantive.]] [[From rabies. Ha, ha, ha!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u493	Thank you. As Marshal Kuchciński says: it is a pity that there was no question. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u494	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have a question for the Minister. I know that vaccination issues are becoming increasingly extremely sensitive and extremely controversial, and I therefore believe that this debate, which will probably take place in committee, is extremely valuable. Valuable for us, for Members as well as for parents and doctors. I believe that this debate offers an opportunity to dispel certain myths. I have two questions. Today - right here in this House - I have just heard, but I would like the Minister to confirm that there is no mercury or aluminium salt in vaccines. This is the first case. [[Mr Ostrowski spoke.]] And the second point and the second question in this connection, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that there is a voluntary vaccination in other countries. This is especially about Germany. Do we therefore see any epidemiological threat to our children? Since there is voluntaryity and voluntaryity in the Scandinavian countries, how can this affect our children and the epidemiological security of our country?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u495	Thank you very much, Member. And the last question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u496	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Data say that in Europe in the first half of this year measles led to 37 deaths. The spokesperson of the Chief Sanitary Inspectorate says that statistics are absolute and if the number of unvested people grows, it will be only a matter of time before the death of the Polish child occurs. The same spokesman informs that there is a several increase in measles disease in Poland and this applies to people without vaccination who have come to us from different countries. He also says that where you go from vaccination to vaccination, you have to face death. From 1 January to 30 September, 123 cases of measles were reported in Poland. During the same period of last year there were 46 such cases, and measles, let me remind you, is one of the most contagious diseases and is transmitted by a droplet road. I ask the Minister to respond both to the words of the Chief Health Officer and to the question of what is the position of the government, the PiS government, in relation to this scandalous bill, in relation to those provisions concerning the eradication of preventive vaccinations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you are unable to answer my question as a minister and as a member of the government, please answer as a human being. What is your position on this matter? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u497	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I ask the chief health inspector, Mr. Jarosław Pinkas, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u498	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present to you in extenso the position of the government vis-à-vis the citizens' bill amending the law on prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. If your marshal will allow me, I will answer a few questions as soon as I present my position to the government, and I will also tell you how I feel about it, Jarosław Pinkas. I ask you, the essential intention of the legislative initiative contained in the citizens' draft law amending the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human beings, print No 2796, hereinafter referred to as the draft law, is to abolish the obligation for preventive vaccination referred to in the provisions of the Act of 5 December 2008 on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Being, hereinafter referred to as the Act, and to introduce the principle of voluntary vaccination. The draft law only leaves the possibility for the Minister responsible for health or voivode to impose an obligation for vaccination in the event of an epidemic or epidemic situation, Article. Point 1 (8). According to Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (1) (a) b and Article. 17 There is a legal obligation to undergo protective vaccination against certain infectious diseases. Subjective scope of the above mentioned application. obligation, i.e. groups of persons obliged to undergo protective vaccination, and scope, i.e. the infectious diseases covered by the preventive vaccination obligation are laid down in the Regulation of the Minister for Health of 18 August 2011 on compulsory preventive vaccination. On the other hand, specific indications for individual vaccines resulting from the current epidemiological situation are set out in the preventive vaccination programme for a given year published in the form of a communication from the Chief Health Officer. It should be noted that the obligation for designated groups of persons to undergo protective vaccination against certain infectious diseases has existed in the Republic of Poland for nearly 60 years. It is an administrative obligation of a non-monetary nature arising directly from the provisions of the Act. Persons obliged to exercise their legal obligation to undergo vaccination of children or persons not capable of legal action shall be those exercising legal custody or guardianship within the meaning of Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 point 1 of the Act of 6 November 2008 on the rights of the patient and the spokesperson on the rights of the patient. The implementation of the preventive vaccination programme plays an important role in shaping public health in the Republic of Poland. In the area of prevention and prevention of infectious diseases, this implementation also takes into account the international obligations of the Republic of Poland to combat and eradicate communicable diseases by means of preventive vaccination. It depends on the level of public acceptance, the legal obligation to undergo protective vaccinations, the integrity of the activities of doctors, nurses, midwives carrying out compulsory vaccinations and the activities of administrative authorities to enforce the obligation of vaccination by persons legally obliged to do so. Compulsory protective vaccinations are an effective and generally socially acceptable method to prevent infectious diseases, both in terms of prevention of these diseases in a person undergoing protective vaccination, individual prevention, and in terms of shaping the resistance of the entire population to diseases, so-called. collective prevention. A high proportion of vaccinated individuals are required to achieve immunity on a population scale. Typically, population immunity is achieved with vaccination of a high percentage of the population, i.e. at least 95%, which effectively prevents the spread of infectious diseases not only in immunized individuals, but also in those who, due to health contraindications, cannot be vaccinated against these diseases, or who have not developed immune immunity despite proper vaccination. In the past, the prevalence of preventive vaccination has enabled the eradication of smallpox. At present, worldwide eradication programmes such as polio and measles are being carried out together with the World Health Organisation. The introduction of compulsory preventive vaccination against selected infectious diseases also reduces the social consequences associated with the severe health consequences of infectious diseases, including the burden on the public finance sector of the costs of treating and treating the complications of these diseases. The introduction of universal vaccination in the most effective manner has resulted in the eradication of the risk of previously common infectious diseases, in particular in the paediatric population. The provision of a high proportion of people immune to the population shall be supported by educational and health measures promoting knowledge of the role of vaccination in the prevention of infectious diseases, but at the same time protected by legal administrative enforcement measures in relation to the implementation of this vaccination obligation by persons obliged to do so. It is now difficult to predict what the consequences of the abolition of the preventive vaccination obligation provided for in the draft law will be for the country's immunization. It should be borne in mind that, once the preventive vaccination obligation has been lifted, further yearbooks of children and adolescents will only be vaccinated at a rate of not more than 70%. , which in a few years will create conditions for the epidemic spread of infectious diseases in the population of children and young people, especially such highly contagious diseases as measles, mumps or rubella, and will allow the occurrence of infectious diseases that are extremely dangerous, currently almost absent in Poland, such as. tetanus, diphtheria or polio. However, the effects of the abolition of the vaccination obligation on the immunization of the next year of children and adolescents and the entire population are difficult to predict, as no country with similar socio-economic conditions and legal arrangements for preventive vaccination has abolished the vaccination obligation, especially in the period of increased activity of anti-vaccine movements, which already test not only the preventive vaccination obligation itself, but also the appropriateness of carrying out preventive vaccinations for the benefit of children, effectively for the prevention of infectious diseases. Thus, regression in the fight against infectious diseases through preventive vaccination can significantly reduce the credibility of the Republic of Poland towards partners carrying out WHO coordinated international programmes for the eradication of infectious diseases. Experience in some countries, e.g. Italy, France and Germany, which previously, under different legal, socio-economic and cultural conditions in these countries, did not have an obligation to immunize or abolish it, and are now introducing elements of the vaccination obligation for children due to the growing maturity of infectious diseases in these countries, should lead to careful withdrawal from the vaccination obligation in Poland. Notwithstanding all the arguments previously mentioned for maintaining the mandatory nature of preventive vaccination against selected infectious diseases, the proposed law contains a number of errors. Projectors are inconsistent despite the abolition of the vaccination obligation in Article. Point 1 (3) of the draft law regulates the activities related to the carrying out of preventive vaccinations previously compulsory, within their meaning being a different type of vaccination than the recommended protective vaccinations, and in Article. Point 1 (6) of the draft law, despite the abolition of the vaccination obligation, add a new provision, Article. 21a Act, which provides that provisions do not restrict the possibility of voluntary vaccination. If the vaccination obligation is lifted, the distinction between these two categories of vaccination is incomprehensible and unnecessary. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 1 (5) of the draft law provides that the inclusion in the register of adverse vaccination reactions reported by a doctor of an adverse vaccination reaction, NOP, will require the issuing of an administrative decision by the county health inspector. It is not specified whether the administrative procedure for the decision to enter the NOP in the register will be carried out ex officio or at the request of the party, or whether the NOP recognition physician reporting the NOP is also a party to the proceedings. The proposed amendment shall be introduced in place of the substantive decision of the district health inspector on the entry of the notified NOP case in the register where it meets the NOP criteria set out for epidemiological surveillance of the NOP from the Health Minister's Regulation of 21 December 2010 on undesirable vaccination reactions and their recognition criteria. In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 point (1) (a) and the draft law proposes that the preventive vaccination programme for a given year, containing the substantive guidelines for doctors and nurses implementing preventive vaccinations concerning the use of individual vaccines, be published annually by means of a regulation of the Minister responsible for Health, and not, as yet, by means of a communication from the Chief Health Inspector. Such a solution is not appropriate due to the subject matter of regulation, which is strictly substantive, resulting from the changing epidemiological situation and the progress of vaccinology. At the same time, it should be noted that the proposed law does not provide for transitional provisions allowing addressees to adapt to changes in the legal situation or the corresponding vacatio legis. In the light of the above, the Council of Ministers has a negative opinion on the citizens' bill amending the law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans, print No 2796. [[Applause]] [[It's a nightclub break-up.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think there's any retreat with the club. There's no reason to break up. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the day of my failure as an academic teacher. I'm an academic teacher, I'm a national public health consultant, I've been a doctor for 35 years. The fact that we are currently debating and having doubts about the vaccination programme, as to their safety, is the result of a mistake, a real mistake, a communication error with society, especially the medical community... [[Exactly.]] ...but also all health politicians, I think, all sitting in this room. [[Applause]] Everyone sitting in this room. This problem has been growing for many years. At the moment, he is indeed a problem that needs to be solved, but it needs to be resolved in an extremely clear way, only through an educational agenda... [[Yes.]] ...only through a program for such use of knowledge, so that this knowledge is unambiguous. The margin of manipulation - I do not hide that this is a good word - should be as small as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, the words 'Internet', 'Internet knowledge', were written here. The Internet is a fantastic thing to gain knowledge, but you need to know which side to go to. We need to know how to read the article, whether it is a real source of knowledge acquired through real scientific research by real scientists, by those who know about it, by those who have good intentions, by those who are reviewed, by those who have impact, by those who have degrees and academic titles. Ladies and gentlemen, there would be no debate if there were authority in world medicine. If there's one authority that says no, start trusting me, it's based on my best knowledge. I'm not corrupted by a pharmaceutical company. I'm a doctor who serves his patients, and he's also faithful to his oath. We've got 99.9%. doctors in Poland who are faithful to their oath. This oath is above all an obligation to reach true knowledge. [[Primum non nocere.]] Primum non nocere. Primum non nocere is also the patient's response to the doctor. Doctor, what would you do if you were me? I've had patients like this before, I have them all the time, and I'm telling them exactly, and that's a very good relationship. This relationship has been shaken by Dr. Google, a relationship of partner medicine, a medical relationship based on a credible doctor who can reliably present his knowledge, his intentions. We'll get back to that one day. We have to go back to that, it's our duty, it's my corporate duty, because I'm still a doctor, but it's a duty. also professional corporations of nurses and midwives, and all medical professionals. We must not forget that we have made a dramatic mistake - a communication error. Of course there are systemic problems, we don't have much time for our patients, but we don't say enough about what we'd do if we were them. We use clinical guidelines too often, sometimes very ambiguous. I'm asking our patients to communicate with the doctors. Ladies and gentlemen, probably the biggest mistake of the State Sanitary Inspection, which is... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u499	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. I ask you to remain calm, sir. Don't bother the Minister. Chief Health Inspector Jarosław Pinkas. Mr President, the biggest mistake of the State Sanitary Inspection over the last few years, because this is not an excellent inspection... [[Voice from the room: What is the mistake?]] ...was that we stopped communicating through science. That's gonna change. From today on, on the pages of the State Sanitary Inspection [[♪ The bell ♪]] there is a huge repository of knowledge where you can find all research on this subject, all reports. Maybe not all of them, because it's impossible, but such reports that will be difficult to argue with. It is impossible to argue with them, because those who are polemicizing have no scientific tool, have no basis. They think that whatever they know they found an article on the Internet, they don't know by whom they signed, by someone they later call authority, and behind this authority, there's usually something extremely dangerous, some pekunary aspects, some dishonesty. [[Voice from the room: What?]] If Dr. Wakefield is an authority for us in Poland, it means that we have erred in a completely dramatic way. This can't happen again in Poland. [[Applause]] It cannot happen again in Poland that Dr. Wakefield was brought to Poland as a scientific authority. It can't be like this. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of questions here. I have answers to these questions. Your marshal, if I wanted to answer that question, we'd probably have to stay here for the next two days. [[Voice from the room: We have time.]] There you go. I am at your disposal and this is my life mission to stop what is happening right now, and to keep Polish children safe. This is my life mission. [[Applause]] But I would also like to say that I thank Mrs Justyna Sosha very much for opening this debate. She is very emotional, but this debate, I think, will allow us to convey clear arguments with which there is no polemics. Because there are such arguments, countries with which it cannot be argued will not. It is impossible to argue with science, which is based on reliable data, which is based on the work of hundreds of thousands of scientists in Poland, hundreds of thousands of research, huge big data, which we can reasonably analyze and draw conclusions from it. Poland is a safe country. Poland is a country that buys the best possible vaccines. Of course, the kind we can afford, and we can afford good vaccines. They may not be Mercedes, but they certainly aren't broken-down cars bought from the tart. That's not true. Here are some passwords, questions I have to answer right now, because tomorrow maybe someone will be afraid to go with their child to inoculate them. The first question, Mr, which has been asked, I would say from the offu, is whether the vaccines are safe and whether they contain mercury and an aluminium compound. Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting all my authority at stake. I am a doctor of habilitation of medical sciences, an employee of the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre, which educates all doctors in Poland postgraduately. I'm gonna have to face it by looking them in the eye and saying I didn't. I can't afford it. Since 2011, there has been no mercury or clay in any vaccine in Poland, [[Applause]] aluminum, I'm sorry. I don't know where that data came from. If this data is circulating in public space, that's it. Also my mistake... [[How would they know that? They just don't read anything.]] ...though I have been a chief health inspector for an equal month and a national public health consultant for three months. This has to change. For 22 years I worked with a man who had extraordinary authority, and if he came in here, and certainly looked at us, he would say, "Jarek, go ahead, don't let go." It was sleep. Professor Religa, my great master and boss. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the State Sanitary Inspection site today, see what data we have. Ask us questions. I will participate in every debate with the most outstanding Polish specialists. Today, I have representatives of the National Institute of Public Health, outstanding, internationally recognized virusologists and vaccinologists. You're Professor Litwińska, my colleagues from the Chief Sanitary Inspection Department, who is responsible for the security of vaccination. We are behind the entire nursing community and the entire medical community, because before this debate I met and asked for the support of all doctors in Poland. I know I'm being listened to by the professional corporations I've been talking to. We will have great support in all clinics, hospitals, wherever you are vaccinated, and it will be essential material support, because we will equip doctors with the knowledge of how to answer questions that are very right, because people have the right to have doubts. The doctors will be prepared to answer questions. [[Applause]] [[Great, bravo.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to answer the question of whether a glass of water that is standing here right now can harm me or not. Probably. [[Voice from the room: Because there is a low emission.]] Probably. Therefore, there is always a possibility, it is always used in medicine the word "possibly." Something could happen, it could be a complication. But statistically speaking, we have in Poland safe vaccines that only do good things. [[Applause]] We have really well-designed NOP reporting. A lot of countries watch us do it. We have a special institute that analyzes it. There's information coming in every day, if something bad happened, there'd be an alert, there'd be an alert light. We live in a safe country and we will continue to live in it if we convince, educate people, not penallise, if we give the chance to acquire knowledge, but knowledge suggested, knowledge credible, and not from an online trash can where certain things are shared, knowledge from those places where reliable knowledge is passed on. Ladies and gentlemen, I really appreciate citizens' movements. They were born not in Poland, but in different countries. Probably the first nation that actually had the greatest doubts was the American nation. Anti-vaccine movements have been slowed down at the moment mainly by doctors, nurses, medical professionals who are engaged in a very rational fight on Twitter or other social media, and who put forward sound and wise arguments with which they sometimes cannot be argued because they have such value and scientific quality. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to trust medical professionals, we have no choice. I saw Mr Winnicki coming here about a bullet. You were certainly in Polish health service well - I apologize for colloquialism - served. Then I noticed that it was much better, so I see that therapy is doing the right thing. I keep my fingers crossed so you can throw those bullets away. I'm sure you'll be fine. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u500	Inspector, I'm very sorry, but your time has been extended, and you're already very serious. Chief Health Inspector Jarosław Pinkas: Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Look at our websites. I have one last request, Mr. Marshal. Today I issued a comprehensive statement by a national consultant in the field of public health. Read them, begin to argue, but argue for real arguments, not in terms of: it seems to me, somewhere I heard or heard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thank you. Ms Justyna Socha, a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! Dear Messengers! Honourable Members! I too, like Minister Pinkas, have a mission, a mission to ensure the health and safety of children, starting with my children, which I have vaccinated. Most of us have vaccinated our children, believed in this system, so it's illegal to call us an anti-vaccine movement. First of all, I want to take this opportunity to thank the doctors who are here with us at the gallery, [[Applause]] to doctors who are criticizing the current system - and this is not about combating vaccination - it is about criticizing the harmful system that is currently in Poland - they are being brought before a medical court, e.g. for criticizing the fact that babies are being vaccinated, premature babies in the state of worry. This is not rare at all, and this must stop, because two mandatory vaccines are now only given in Bulgaria in Europe. Enough damage to the health of Polish newborns. I would like to stress once again that our project does not tolerate vaccination, abolishes the obligation to immunize, introduces voluntary preventive vaccinations, leaving vaccinations which the state can use as in 20 civilised European countries in the event of an epidemic threat. And I have a very important argument to make here. The vaccination obligation is harmful. This is an anti-advertising vaccination and there is scientific evidence for this which - I am surprised - do not know the institutions that care about health: the Chief Medical Council, the Chief Council of Nurses and Obstetricians, even the Minister of Health. There was even a critical statement from the patient's spokesperson in this case. Why do you not know these medical and scientific arguments, I quote, "The pitiful consequences of the introduction of a partial mandatory vaccination, the experimental evidence, the 2015 publication: "A mandatory vaccination has increased the level of irritation among people with a rather negative attitude towards vaccination, while voluntary vaccination has not. This led to a 39% reduction in vaccination for the second voluntary vaccination. Another publication, author Andrea Kit Vaccinations and Public Concern in History: In the light of current studies, mandatory vaccination programmes also involve risks. In a trial-based experiment, changing vaccination to mandatory increased the negative attitude of individuals to vaccination. Vaccination also raises difficult questions about self-determination in general and may give rise to confusion about compensation if they are suspected of faults, and it was therefore argued that the mandatory vaccination programme would, in time, adversely affect public authorities and the vaccination programme - said scientists. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a lot of questions here. I don't know if I can address them all in such a short time. First of all, I want to thank you for showing respect for those people who came to the Sejm today and waiting for their will to be dealt with, their will to protect their children, to ensure their safety... I want to thank you for collecting the 120,000. signatures. This has been a huge effort for us, because the media are dishonest in this debate, completely distorting our intentions, causing discrimination, so, this discrimination, which Minister Patrick Jak spoke about, causing social hatred, although we are the only attorneys for the safety of children at the moment, children vaccinated in Poland, I have proof of that. You will receive the full content of the speech on your mailboxes. As for the starring of Minister Arłukowicz, I would like to quote Minister Ewa Kopacz. Ladies and gentlemen! You all remember in 2009, when the governments of European countries were pulled on unnecessary vaccines against swine flu when they had to be disposed of for millions. It turned out that there was no pandemic and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz said something like this to the European Parliament: I said this as a doctor promising to act for the benefit of patients and as a politician promising to act for the benefit of citizens. It cannot be that vaccine producers, under the cover of media campaigns and using the justified fear of disease, put governments against the wall. It cannot be that drug manufacturers do not take responsibility for their product, for patient safety, for side effects. It cannot be that governments become hostages to interest groups and make decisions in an atmosphere of panic caused by alarming media reports and experts' opinions, which are part of the game of interest and do not have much in common with a factual analysis of the situation. It can't be agreed to. Isn't that interesting today when we're scared of epidemics in the media, and yet none of the countries in Europe have announced epidemics. I have here, for example, a letter from the Ukrainian Ministry of Health confirming that there has not been an outbreak of any of the diseases against which you are vaccinated... Excuse me? [[Are the deaths confirmed? There have been deaths in Ukraine. But you're lying. The Minister denied it today at the committee meeting. How dare you lie like that? Putting children in danger and lying.]] No outbreak has been declared. We have 20 deaths from vaccinations here in our statistics. The Minister has weak statistics. At the moment, I will present the opinion of the experts of vaccinology that the system - answering the Member's question... Mr Marshal, can you reassure the Member because I would like to finish my substantive statement by answering Mr Wilk's question about the NOP system. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the system for registering unwanted vaccination reactions is unbelievable, and on the basis of this system we assess whether our children are safe, on the basis of this system, we assess whether the vaccine given to Polish children is defective on the market or whether the vaccine administered daily is not defective. So? Prof. Mirosław Wysocki, Prof. Jacek Wysocki, Dr. Hanna Tchajka, Prof. Andrzej Zieliński and Dr. Paweł Grzesiowski, all say that the system of unwanted graft reactions is unbelievable, requires a change. We even have court orders saying that the intervention of a health inspection in a medical emergency report by a doctor of a severe adverse vaccination reaction, when the child was unconscious several times after vaccination... As a result of the intervention of the sanitary inspection, this NOP was classified as light. Ladies and gentlemen! This child could have died and someone was interfering. You know why? Because when the NOP is heavy, it should be clarified whether the series of vaccines are defective. Whose interests are the health inspection? Producers or Polish children? [[Applause]] Let's just change it. I will not respond to any provocations concerning my supposedly evil intentions. Ladies and gentlemen! All of us who are involved in this subject, doctors, journalists, lawyers, parents, are exposed to serious legal problems, we have cases in courts, before professional authorities. Believe me, we're not shutting our mouths because we're determined parents and the same parents are parents all over the world. I thank Minister Pinkas, who said that he was happy to have a debate. I would also like to thank the Members of PiS and Kukiz15 for their willingness to direct our project to the procession. Why? Because without a fair debate, without dialogue, we will not change the bad system, and so far we have only met with censorship. There are doctors here who have cases before the medical courts. I have a court case for a petition that was requested - what? - to finally make statements on the absence of conflicts of interest by experts whose demands are being implemented by the Ministry. Is this something unusual? No, in Europe experts are obliged to make such statements before each meeting of the team, which recommends e.g. extending the vaccination schedule by further vaccines. You ask, one of the messengers asked, "What is the cause of fear? So I answer: The cause of fear is what solves our project. Parents do not receive reliable information from doctors. We know what the situation is, there aren't enough, they don't have time. Our project will require a doctor to present a list of possible complications. Then if something happens to this child on this list, then the parent already knows how to treat the child, to save, to whom doctors to turn. If this information is not available, often the diagnosis is only after a year, two or several years. And the baby needs to be rescued immediately. I really have so much to say to you. So many people hope that I can stand here today. We're running out of censorship time, problem solving time. [[Non-ethical vaccines.]] I hope we'll give the doctors the courage, there's really a lot of them, there's nurses, there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them, there's a lot of them. Except that I hope that the Ministry will do something with the General Medical Council, which censors doctors who are working on the censorship of doctors in Poland. This has to stop. At one time, the Ombudsman called on professional authorities to be able to build up more. Because right now it's a dictatorship. And I say it on behalf of the doctors. [[Like what?]] I'm not gonna name them because they might lose their jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me take another look at the questions you've asked me. The opinion is also very shocking, for example. The Chief Medical Council, judging our project as a threat. I gave evidence that Europe's record-breaking loss of confidence in the vaccination system, which is the highest rate of non-vaccination, is the result of this system and the obligation. So no educating through websites is gonna do any good. You have to start talking to your parents, respecting them, listening to them, answering their questions. Polish offices are currently not prepared to answer basic questions of parents. Usually the answer is, we don't have that kind of research, we don't have that kind of data. We have dozens of such letters that you will receive on mailboxes. The issue of vaccines produced on the basis of cell lines from abortion. Yes, there are two vaccines - measles, mumps, rubella. There's no ethical alternative. You will also be given scientific evidence that this is a fact. As with the composition of aluminium vaccines and thiomersal, which consists half of mercury, you will find information about cell lines in the summary of product characteristics of the vaccine. And the parents want to vaccinate, but they don't have an alternative. In other countries there are ethical, religious, philosophical exemptions. When a man doesn't want to be a part of it, he just has the right to refuse. Finally, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that parents are afraid to have children in Poland because of this, if they get, for example. 22 fines if they get 11 grand. a fine which is intended to compel them to give the child a vaccine that caused their previous child a severe adverse vaccination reaction. 1500 people replied in the survey that they had not decided to have another child because of the vaccination obligation and the sanctions associated with it. It's a 500 minus and a child minus. Therefore, I am pleased, again, to thank you, that out of respect for the parents who collected these signatures, out of respect for those people gathered under the Sejm, out of respect for the doctors who are here with us, this project is to be put to the committee's deliberations. I think that's the best information I could hear today. I think it's starting in our country another stage when corporate media stops pissing on people, and we start talking to each other, solving all these problems. And that, I think, is the greatest sense of this civic project, which, as I mentioned, is an opportunity for the whole world. Like I said, he's looking at us with 130 organizations similar to ours from all over the world. Thousands of parents are looking at us who experience the same in countries where there is a mandatory vaccination system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Mr. Marshal's asleep.]] I think there's one last thing I should say. There's a risk, there's got to be a choice. And so be it in our homeland. Because we don't want to leave, we want to change this country for the better. We want to change this country into one where families can feel safe, where children will be healthy. And as a normal mother of four, I'm gonna take care of a normal life that I lived 10 years ago before I was fined. And that was the cause of our association. This is the cause of the formation of so-called. Anti-vaccine movements - disrespect for the will of parents and coerce them into unwanted medical procedures, and yet international codes, patient rights law, human rights convention, all these laws guarantee us the right to informed consent to medical treatment. Do you have any idea when those records came up in medical law? After experiments on people from World War II. It was then found that medical experiments, medical procedures, could not be performed without the informed consent of patients. And this is about our future, about newborns, about children who are getting sicker and sicker, I don't think anyone is going to bother us, because every fourth child at the moment is allergic and there is an increase in the number of autism cases by 350% in 9 years in Poland, by 62%. in the last few years, the number of disabled kindergarteners increased by 50% the number of hospitalized infants has increased by 30% over 10 years. After all, this is a real epidemic, what happens to the health of our children. Why don't you give clear answers why there's no research going on that's gonna say...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u502	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u503	...that the cause isn't the vaccine? And that's the parent's request...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u504	Thank you very much. You're out of time. I've extended it a little. [[Well, for a marshal, that's a lot.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u505	...from all over the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u506	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, proposals were made to reject the draft law at first reading and to refer the draft law to the Health Committee and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries (Print No 2810). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of Mr Grzegorz Witkowski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u507	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law amends the Maritime Fisheries Act of 19 December 2014 including: the creation of a new central government body, i.e. the chief maritime fisheries inspector, the creation of an opportunity to exchange individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels and to adapt the legislation on the register of fishing vessels and Union regulations. The most important element of the proposal to amend the Maritime Fisheries Act is to harmonise the way in which commercial and recreational fisheries operators are inspected by establishing a single central government body established to control compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and the organisation of the fish market, i.e. Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries, based in Słupsk, in place of three previously functioning Regional Inspectors of Maritime Fisheries, based in Gdynia, Słupsk and Szczecin. The current division into three regional maritime fisheries inspectors in Gdynia, Slupsk and Szczecin does not ensure uniform supervision of compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and the organisation of the fish market. The new organisational structure will ensure that one central state administration takes over the competence to control compliance with the rules on sea fishing and the rules on the organisation of the fish market. The target organisational model for fisheries control services is to set up a central government body appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for fisheries and directly subordinate to that Minister. This body will be responsible for the tasks related to the control of compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and on the organisation of the fish market, as well as coordination of inspection and inspection activities of Poland in the framework of the achievement of the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy. The location of the new body in Słupsk will allow the use of properties used by the Regional Fisheries Inspector in Słupsk. At the same time, the city of Słupsk is located, as you know, in the central part of Pomerania, which will allow for the smooth movement of the chief inspector and subordinate units between ports and seaports, and for efficient and direct supervision of fisheries inspectors carrying out their tasks in coastal towns, which is now a big problem. The proposed law assumes that the territorial scope of the main inspector will cover the territory and the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Poland. In the territory of the exclusive zone of the Republic of Poland, i.e. the Baltic Sea area adjacent to the territorial waters of our country, fishing is carried out over which the control is to be exercised, among others. a new body. It is therefore necessary to define the territorial scope of the operation of the inspector, in particular as an area of its operation, in order not to restrict the control by the Polish inspection of fisheries exclusively to the territory of the Republic of Poland, i.e. to an area of 12 nautical miles, which is, of course, caused by the robbery policy of our neighbours when it comes to resources in the Baltic Sea. In order to carry out the tasks efficiently and effectively, the inspector may, but no longer need to set up out-of-town centres. And most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, the solutions adopted meet the expectations of the fishing environment, assume that individual fishing quotas can be replaced in whole or in part between shipowners of fishing vessels allocated to the area by the individual fishing quotas of the species of marine organisms concerned by this exchange. Exchanges may be carried out in accordance with the conversion factor for the quantity of marine organisms of the species concerned subject to an individual fishing quota which may be indicated for the quantity determined by the quota in question. The specific conversion factor shall be determined annually by the Minister responsible for fisheries by means of a regulation on the basis of the overall catch quotas and the market value of the various species of marine organisms. The Minister shall also lay down detailed conditions for the exchange of individual fishing quotas. I ask you to support our project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u508	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed Law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act introduces a number of amendments to the existing legislation and their overarching objective is to create a chief maritime fisheries inspector as a central government body. The draft law also creates opportunities for the exchange of individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels and adapts the provisions of the Act concerning the register of fishing vessels to Union regulations. The creation of a single central government body set up to control compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and the organisation of the fish market - the chief maritime fisheries inspector based in Słupsk, in place of the three previously functioning regional maritime fisheries inspectors, is intended to lead to a uniform way of carrying out inspections of operators engaged in commercial and recreational fishing. The division into three regional maritime fisheries inspectors in Gdynia, Słupsk and Szczecin, which is currently in operation, does not ensure uniform supervision of compliance and control and thus creates a different approach to the way in which the legal actions are carried out. The changes will aim to standardise and harmonise control activities, use of existing staff resources, use of existing regional locations of marine fisheries inspectors. The final organisational model of maritime fisheries control services provides for the establishment of a central government body appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister responsible for fisheries and directly subordinate to the Minister for Maritime Fisheries. The Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries will be responsible for the tasks related to the control of compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and the organisation of the fish market, as well as coordination of inspection and inspection activities of Poland in the framework of the achievement of the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy. The Deputy Chief Inspector for Maritime Fisheries shall be appointed at the request of the Chief Inspector for Maritime Fisheries by the Minister responsible for Fisheries. The statutes of the Chief Inspector for Maritime Fisheries shall be issued in the form of a decree by the Minister responsible for Fisheries. The rules of organisation of the Chief Maritime Fisheries Inspector shall be drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Statute and approved by the Minister responsible for Fisheries. The head inspector will be Słupsk. The selection of Słupsk as the seat of the new body will allow the use of buildings which are currently serving as the seat of the Regional Maritime Fisheries Inspectorate in Słupsk, and Słupsk is located in the central part of the Polish Pomerania and will allow for the smooth movement of the chief maritime fisheries inspector between ports and maritime marinas and efficient and direct supervision of marine fisheries inspectors who perform their duties outside Słupsk. The Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries will carry out inspection and inspection activities and will conduct: accounting, personnel and public procurement wages, planning and management of quality control, internal audit and defence and protection of classified information. The territorial scope of the main inspector for sea fishing covers the territory and the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Poland. The draft law provides that for the efficient and effective performance of the tasks of the Chief Inspector, local centres may be set up to operate the Chief Maritime Inspector in their area of activity, to be specified in the order of the Minister responsible for fisheries. The solutions presented in the proposed law are intended to allow continuity of administrative cases and proceedings to date. Regional marine fisheries inspectors and their alternates will receive a proposal for employment in the newly created structure in accordance with the proposed law. In addition to the creation of a new administration, the draft law creates the possibility to exchange individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels in accordance with the principle of species per species. Regulation is intended to allow for a more efficient use of fishing quotas while there is no undesirable phenomenon of trade in fishing quotas. The solution meets the expectations of the fishing environment. Exchanges may be carried out in accordance with the conversion factor for the quantity of marine organisms of the species concerned subject to an individual fishing quota which may be indicated for a specific quantity of marine organisms of another species covered by an individual fishing quota in the area concerned. A detailed conversion factor shall be determined by the Minister responsible for fisheries by means of a regulation. The Minister responsible for Fisheries shall also specify the detailed manner in which the exchange of individual fishing quotas is to be carried out. The draft law also provides for amendments to the rules on fishing vessel registers, which include: they adapt them to the relevant EU legislation and are of a sequencing nature. The draft law provides that its provisions should enter into force on 1 January 2019, with the exception of the provisions relating to the representative who will organise the new office and the amendments which adapt the national provisions relating to the fishing vessel register to the Union. Law and Justice Club [[♪ The bell ♪]] requests that the project be forwarded to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u510	Thank you, Member. Mr Jerzy Borowczak, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u511	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act, print No 2810. Maritime fisheries are not political, especially the current one. Therefore, I ask that our comments and doubts should not be read as a political dispute. Our intention is to understand the organisational changes that have been made in fisheries surveillance. It is hard to get the impression that even in such an apolitical area as sea fishing, the proposed amendments to the amendment of the Law on Maritime Fisheries are fully in line with the policy of the current governing team, whose aim is to centralise the state. How can I read and understand the creation of a new central government body in the form of a major maritime fisheries inspector? The current structure of district inspectors in Szczecin, Słupsk and Gdynia meets the requirements, and the maritime fisheries administration is the minister responsible for fisheries and the district inspectors under the authority of the Minister. It is difficult to see in the proposed new central state administration a qualitative change improving supervision of compliance and organisation of the fish market. The new central state body, apart from additional costs and additional posts, centralises the entire supervisory structure, and every form of centralism leads to ossification of structure, perversions and reduced efficiency and quality of operation. Therefore, we would like to hear from the applicant what tangible savings this will bring to the new central government body and what benefits it will bring in quality, in monitoring compliance with regulations and the organisation of the fish market in Poland. Unfortunately, the provisions of the amendment of the law and its justification do not give rise to these benefits. Only the pursuit of democratic centralism can be seen as consistent with the rest of the policies pursued. But it's not all our doubts. The amended law was consulted extensively, as many as 60 social and professional organisations. It's just that there's not much to this consultation. Just analyze the annex to the consultation report to see that a fraction of the proposal of social organisations has been taken into account. Is this supposed to indicate the infallibility of the applicant and his subordinate ministerial officers? We would also like to know what are the substantive reasons for the establishment of the headquarters of the Chief Fisheries Officer in Słupsk. With all the sympathy for this city and respect for the district inspector in Słupsk, there is no doubt that the best conditions to create this chief inspector, Gdynia has. Mr. Marshal! I propose, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform to refer the proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for further work on the revision of the Maritime Fisheries Act. At the same time, we hope that the work in the committee will be conducted fairly, with the participation of experts, representatives of social and professional organisations, and their voice will be carefully listened to and taken into account and not subject to the arithmetical parliamentary domination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u512	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Kobylarz, Mr Piotr Misilo and Mr Małgorzata Zwierzan delivered their speeches in writing. So we have a speech by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski from the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u513	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The Club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats is in favour of passing the bill on the amendment of the Maritime Fisheries Act to work in committee. I think that we should hear and clarify some issues related to organisational change, discuss and discuss further issues related to profits and those elements that are intended to give positive results and create the conditions for the further and better work of this office. I think we will also hear further what will happen to this property, which will remain after the Provincials in Gdynia and Szczecin, because we all want this property to be properly and well used and to serve all of us, especially the development of the industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u514	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion, i.e. A series of questions. This series consists of one question that will be asked by Mr Jerzy Borowczak, the Civic Platform Club. I therefore close the list of Members who have been asked questions and set the question time for 1 minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u515	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I'd like to ask the Minister. As we know today, in Gdynia we have everything we need from the chief inspector. We've got the lab, we've got the staff, we've got the archives. Is it in the Minister's plan to transfer this? It's about laboratories, important things, truth, legal department, archive department, because it's known that it's not in Szczecin and Słupsk. Will it be moved to Słupsk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u516	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now the Minister wants to speak. Please, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation Mr Grzegorz Witkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u517	Thank you, Marshal. Mr President, I will refer to your earlier speech. It's not like we're doing some kind of revolution. We are simply improving the functioning of these three district inspectors, because the practice so far was that they were In fact... Even though they were subject, as you said, to the Minister responsible for fisheries, they were separate entities, dukes, and they carried out various checks, with varying intensity, with different equipment. But it is the intensity of these tests and the selectivity that caused us to lean on it and interfere deeper in their operation. I've been a little sore about this democratic centralism. I absolutely understand you, I recognize the merits of fighting democratic centralism before 1989. I don't see anything like that here at all. This is a solution that has also been taken over from our neighbours, the countries of the Baltic Sea basin, who, when it comes to fishing in the Baltic Sea, as you well know, do not always play fair. [[Yes.]] And because, in order for the state not to be theoretical, we have to sit more firmly on it. Any past assets and experience, achievements, staff that have been dealing with all these things will be completely managed. It's hard for me to tell now if it's going to be in Gdynia. I think so, because Słupsk is finally a town not far from Gdynia. All of this will work in the symbiosis, but at the moment it is difficult to say how it will be developed, inventoried and used for the future service. Here I would also like to make it clear to you: This is not exactly the result of pressure or public consultation, because, as you know, this is about the control function of this inspector. Nobody wants to be controlled, especially the fishermen don't want it. Thus, after years of unauthorised checks carried out by various services, from the Border Guard to district inspectors to phytosanitary checks in ports, and such humiliation of the fishing brothers, it is high time to introduce a new code of good practice, new rules, new tasks. On the other hand, we absolutely do not depart from control because it is our function, we have committed ourselves as a state and member of the European Union to respect the common fisheries policy, but must also do so to all the countries of the Baltic Sea basin, and this is generally the objective of the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u518	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u519	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Parliamentary Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government proposal for a law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act, print No 2810. The proposed amendments harmonise the way in which commercial and recreational fisheries operators are inspected by establishing a single body appointed to control compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and the organisation of the fish market. The bill provides for the appointment of the Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries based in Słupsk. Currently, there is a division between three regional marine fisheries inspectors: Szczecin, Słupsk and Gdynia. We agree with the applicants that such a division is unfavourable. Currently 47 inspectors are employed, who are subject to the three Regional Maritime Fisheries Inspectors. Each district inspector has internal procedures that are incomplete and often outdated, which makes checks inconsistent. The organisational structure of the office serving the Chief Inspector will be established on the basis of existing staff and consequently employment will remain at the same level. The aim is also to use existing locations in which district inspectors are currently located, which will not result in additional costs from the state budget. The only expenditure foreseen involves technical changes such as the exchange of information boards, business cards or badges, which is set at 60,000. zł. The draft also provides for an extension of the list of documents attached to the application for registration of the vessel in the fishing vessel register or to an application for amendment of the entry in the register. These changes are due to the provisions of the Maritime Chamber on registered matters, which are often issued much earlier than the ship's certificate, i.e. they are more convenient documents for the owner of the fishing vessel, enabling him to obtain prior registration of the vessel in the fishing vessel register or to change the entry. In addition, the Act introduces provisions allowing the exchange of individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels, in accordance with the principle of species per species. Consequently, this will allow more efficient use of fishing quotas and thus reduce the risk of trade in such quotas. Following consultation with the environment concerned and a positive response to the proposed solutions, the Kukiz Club supports this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill assumes, among others, the establishment of a major maritime fisheries inspector based in Słupsk. A new central government body will be set up in place of current regional inspectors of marine fisheries in Szczecin, Słupsk and Gdynia. The Chief Inspector for Maritime Fisheries will be appointed by the Prime Minister at the request of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. How will this change affect the status of employment in the Maritime Fisheries Inspectorate? Will there be an increase in employment in the above mentioned period. institutions? Will the employees of the existing district inspectors get a guarantee of employment after the reorganisation of the institution? The project under investigation also introduces provisions for the exchange of individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels, in accordance with the principle of species per species. Will the proposed wording not result in an undesirable phenomenon of trafficking in such amounts?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u521	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The proposed law amends the Maritime Fisheries Act of 19 December 2014 (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2018 poz. 514 and 650) in order to harmonise the way in which commercial and recreational fisheries operators are inspected by setting up a single body appointed to control compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and the organisation of the fish market. Słupsk will be the seat of the Chief Inspector of Maritime Fisheries. At the same time, the possibility for the Minister responsible for fisheries to set up and abolish the local centres of that body by means of an order. The proposed law also creates, by adding to the provisions of the Maritime Fisheries Act of 19 December 2014 a proposed article. 53a, the possibility to exchange individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels, in accordance with the principle of species per species. It assumes that individual fishing quotas may be exchanged in whole or in part between shipowners of fishing vessels allocated to the area concerned by the individual fishing quotas of the species of marine organisms concerned. Exchanges may be carried out in accordance with the conversion factor for the quantity of marine organisms of the species concerned subject to an individual fishing quota which may be indicated for a specific quantity of marine organisms of another species covered by an individual fishing quota in the area concerned. A detailed conversion factor shall be determined annually by the Minister responsible for fisheries, by means of a regulation, on the basis of the overall catch quotas and the market value for each species of marine organisms and in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The Minister shall also lay down detailed conditions for the exchange of individual fishing quotas. Thus, the Minister of PiS will determine and manually control the exchange of individual fishing quotas between shipowners of fishing vessels. The planning economy is coming to us with great steps. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of referring the bill to further work on the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Maritime Fisheries Act. The project envisages the creation of the Chief Maritime Fisheries Inspectorate in Słupsk in place of the previous three district inspectors located in Szczecin, Słupsk and Gdynia. The new body is responsible for monitoring compliance with the rules on marine fisheries and the organisation of the fish market. It is also envisaged to harmonise the way inspections are carried out by operators engaged in commercial and recreational fishing. I share the opinion of the applicants that current solutions do not serve the development of this area of the economy. There is a lack of standards in the operation of district inspectors and the flow of information between them. Changes are needed to improve and standardise the effectiveness of supervision, and this is the subject of this revision. It is also particularly important, as the designers point out, to improve and harmonise the work of the maritime control services when addressing issues related to the achievement of the objectives of the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy. I therefore welcome this project, also because the new organisational structure is to be established on the basis of the existing staff of the maritime fisheries inspectors and their field offices. Such a solution will make use of the knowledge and valuable experience of these workers and, through the use of the locations in which the Regional Maritime Fisheries Inspectorates are currently located, minimise the costs of reorganisation. An important element of the Act is also those regulations that allow the exchange of fishing quotas between operators of fishing vessels in accordance with the principle of species per species. As the initiators themselves point out, it will meet the expectations of the fishing environment and allow more efficient use of fishing quotas. About Free and Solidarni will vote in favour of further proceding this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u523	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Fisheries, published in print No 2810, to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the European political party and European political foundation (print No 2827). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Łukasz Piebiak to present the justification for the bill. Hello, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the government bill on the European political party and European political foundation, Parliamentary printing no. 2827. The aim of the proposed law is to ensure effective application in Poland of Parliament and Council Regulation No 1141/2014 on the status and financing of European political parties and European political foundations. This regulation regulates the legal status of European political parties and related European political foundations as bodies pursuing European political objectives. The proposed law is intended to lead to the adoption of solutions concerning those entities with the seat of the Republic of Poland concerning matters which have not been sufficiently regulated in Regulation No 1141/2014. The proposal therefore contains technical solutions that clarify the provisions of the Regulation and enable it to be applied. The Regulation grants both parties and foundations a European legal personality which is linked to the registration in the register of European political parties and European political foundations operated by the Office for Foreign Affairs. European political parties and European political foundations operating in the European Parliament. The proposed solutions will include in particular a closer definition of the national legal regime for such entities established in Poland. As a general rule, the rules on political parties will apply to the European political party established in the Republic of Poland and to the EPP, respectively, to the association. The proposed law will also regulate the national aspects of the formation and liquidation of EPP and EFP established in Poland, in particular the tasks of the registry court and the court keeping the political party records, as well as supervision and cooperation measures with the Office for Foreign Affairs. European political parties and European political foundations. The proposed law provides that the tasks of the Polish courts will relate in particular to the issue of certificates stating that the applicant requesting the registration of an EPP or an EFP based in the Republic of Poland fulfils all the relevant national requirements and its statutes comply with the law. The tasks of the Polish courts will also include activities related to the deletion of the legal predecessor of the European political foundation, i.e. associations, from the National Court Register, provided that the creation of a European political foundation takes place by means of a transformation from the association, and the liquidation of EPP and EFP established in Poland on a similar basis to those applied to national political parties and associations. The draft law provides that the national contact point for the exchange of information on the EPP and the EFP with the Office for Foreign Affairs. The European political parties and European political foundations will be the State Election Commission. In addition, as regards the supervision of the functioning of the EPP and the EFP, the proposed law entrusts the prosecutor-general with competence to act on behalf of the Republic of Poland to the Office for Foreign Affairs. European political parties and European political foundations with a reasoned request to remove a European political party or European political foundation from the register kept by the office in the event of a serious breach of national law and after the measures provided for in national law have been exhausted. It should be noted that there are currently no European political parties and European political foundations based in Poland. Most of the more than a dozen such entities are based in Brussels. However, it is the responsibility of the Polish legislator to create a legal framework that will enable such entities to operate in Poland, which is the purpose of this submission. I think that information is sufficient. The project aims to implement the obligations arising from membership of the European Union and does not appear to be particularly controversial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u525	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u526	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, of course, welcomes the government's draft law on a European political party and a European political foundation. The aim of this project is to ensure that the status and financing of European political parties and European political foundations can be applied on the territory of the Republic of Poland. This possibility is important from the point of view of the regulation on the legal status of these entities as pursuing policy objectives at European level. The Regulation grants the EPP and the EFP European legal personality, regulates the emergence of these entities, their internal organisation, conditions and registration procedures, as well as the deletion from the register and the rules for financing and reporting of these entities and for controls and penalties imposed by the European Parliament's office. The right assumption of the draft law is the introduction of a precise national legal framework which will apply to those entities established in Poland. The draft law corresponds to the legal rigour concerning issues not covered by the regulation which systematicise the requirement to register those entities in the selected Member State of the European Union. The wording used in the draft for the application to the European political party of the political party is rightly not limited to the provisions of the Political Party Act, but also to other legal acts in so far as they are applicable to the rights and obligations of political parties. The draft law complies with the requirements of the Regulation on the status and financing of European political parties and European political foundations to the extent that it refers to the definition of national procedures relating to the formation of such entities by means of their transformation. The regulations proposed in the draft law cover in particular issues related to the closer definition of the national legal regime for these entities, as well as their formation, transformation and elimination. Of course, as Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, we welcome the opinion of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u527	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska will now speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u528	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on the European political party and European political foundation law. It would seem that the bill does not raise, should not cause more controversy, but it does. It is encouraging because the supervision of the proper functioning of the European political party and the European political foundation is entrusted to the prosecutor general to Minister Zbigniew Ziobra. It will be up to the Attorney General to request that a European political party or European political foundation be removed from the register. This exclusive right will be granted to the Attorney General, without any judicial review, for example. on the functioning of these bodies in accordance with the Constitution. Today, the Attorney General is Zbigniew Ziobro. And why is that so controversial? I'll remind you. In June 2013, the party Zbigniew Ziobra, Solidarna Poland, held a convention for the money of the European Parliament as part of the operation in one of the European Parliament's factions. The money was supposed to be for the climate congress, and it really turned out that the party rally was held and that the funds were probably not meant for the purpose for which they were intended. Zbigniew Ziobra's party at that time is still facing a return of 40,000. the euro unduly collected for the mentioned purpose. In this pseudo-congress, as I said, the meeting of the political party took part, among others. Zbigniew Ziobro, Jacek Kurski, Beata Kempa or Patrick Jak. There's no settlement until today. Recently, the European Court of Justice ordered the reimbursement of 300,000. Euro Marine Le Pen for misuse of the European Parliament's resources. The OLAF Agency, which fights money laundering, examines this matter and the legitimacy of Zbigniew Zioba and its party, the faction in which he was a member. Let me remind you that the Civic Platform filed a notice to the prosecution about two years ago. So? And nothing, because the prosecutor - it's hard to be surprised, because this is the mentioned Zbigniew Ziobro - is idle in this case. Consequently, the proper functioning of a European political party or a European political foundation cannot be supervised by a person who is charged with such serious accusations by a person who cannot account for his past, his functioning in the European Parliament, and who cannot account for how he spent EU funds. Of course, the work on this bill should be carried out, but surely this flaw in this bill should be eliminated, and Minister Ziobro, the Attorney General, should explain himself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u529	Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor now. Your envoy isn't here. Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u530	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a modern position on the draft law on a European political party and a European political foundation. This is a typical law adapting Polish law to the law of the European Union. It sets out the establishment, organisation, principles of action and liquidation of the European political party and European political foundation. In fact, this bill does not raise any particular doubts. There's no doubt, there's no controversy. With the exception of this one thing, it would be worth, to the same attention of the KRS, however, to extend the scope of entities which have the competence to submit an application for liquidation, to delete political parties from the register, to transfer this competence not only to the prosecutor general, but also to the State Election Commission. And that's the amendment we're going to make. In fact, the exact same opinion was expressed by Agnieszka Pomaska, who was very curious to note that in this particular case the prosecutor general was Minister Ziobro, who, as we know, had some problems with European political parties. [[Applause]] But I understand that when it comes to possible transfers, he is, however, a very pro-European politician. So that, as a rule, this bill is not controversial. We will make amendments and hope for their positive consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u531	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u532	Thank you very much. High Seym! Indeed, as Mr Szłapka has just said, we are dealing with a law of its nature, I would say, first of all, technical and results from European legislation, under Regulation No 1141 of 2014, which talks about how legal issues relating to the registration, operation or termination of European political parties should be regulated. Perhaps, before referring to the law itself, it is worth two sentences to the protocol, but also to the possible listeners of our debate, two words explaining that European political parties differ from national and national political parties, I would say, such ordinary ones, because they are not just associations of natural persons, citizens, but above all these are federations, these are associations of already existing political parties. Members of such European parties may also be individuals, but the principle is that membership of a European political party is intended primarily for an existing, functioning party in a Member State. And what is important, these parties do not replace national parties, national parties. It is important to quote this regulation on which the draft law is based, which says exactly so: Legal capacity and recognition in all Member States do not entitle them - i.e. European political parties and their accompanying party, political foundations - to submit candidates in national elections or elections to the European Parliament or to participate in referendum campaigns. Any such or similar powers shall remain within the competence of the Member States. So once again: We are dealing with the possibility of registering in Poland, as a result of the decision of the authorities, an existing or emerging European political party, but this party will not replace or rule out the possibility of a national party. This is an important reservation and I have allowed myself to call them here directly. Similarly, such a political party does not have the powers of national parties, national parties, for example, linked to subsidies from the state budget. European political parties in this case benefit from European Parliament subsidies. The second point I would like to make in this discussion is, in principle, a repetition of the argument mentioned here also above all by Mr Szłapka, but also by Mrs Pomaska. It seems to us that it is not sufficient that the right to apply for a solution, i.e. a certain kind of supervision of the functioning and existence of European political parties and European political foundations, should belong only to the prosecutor general. The important argument that Mrs Pomaska has developed richly is, of course, the person himself, Minister Ziobra, but in general the matter of entrusting this competence only to the prosecutor-general is unfortunately already a Polish specificity, which is slightly different or significantly different from the European one. It would be better if such competence had a group independent of the executive, collegial authority, and this group was the State Election Commission. That is why we will support the amendments that will appear on this issue, which the Members who have spoken to me and, in particular, Mr Szłapka, have announced. And the last remark I want to make to this project may not be directly related to the provisions of the proposed law, but to a certain idea that is reflected there, that is an opportunity registration in Poland of a European political foundation. Such foundations are known in the Member States of the European Union and are unknown in Poland. It's not about any foundation that plays the role of expert background, think tank, whatever we call it, working with an existing political party, but it's about the only foundation that's set up by a political party, and it's not for current party purposes, it's about spreading certain ideas, certain concepts that are close to the political community gathered in the party. This is the norm in Europe. Unfortunately, the legislative initiative concerning such foundations in Poland in 2010 was stuck in that Sejm. It's worth it, I think, to get back to the idea. I am presenting this idea in the context of today's debate. There's a project ready from September. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 2010 in the Seym Archives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u533	Thank you very much. Two Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Piotr Pyzik, first Member of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the bill is to ensure that a regulation of the European Parliament called Regulation 1141/2014 can be applied in the Republic of Poland. I would like to ask what countries have already introduced this regulation, with what effect and with what result you are learning from the practices that have taken place so far. This is the first case. The second point is the question of possible threats that you see, which may come with this solution in some perspective. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u535	The question is asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u536	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! It will soon be 2 years since the initiation of an investigation into the possibility of committing an offence of illegal financing to one of the so-called parties. The United Right. This applies directly to Zbigniew Ziobra. I wanted to ask the Minister if he could see the obstacles for the supervision of the European political party, the European political foundation to be held by a man who did not settle himself, also directly financially, his activities in the European Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u537	Thank you. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Mr Łukasz Piebiak will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u538	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to Mr Pyzik's question, I will say that I will not give the exact number of implementations, but I suspect that we may be the last or the last, because the deadline for preparing these technical regulations was probably due in 2016. We have prepared this law, which is not long, but quite technical, long enough, and for obvious reasons in 2016 we were unable to meet this deadline - the Parliament of this term began to function in autumn 2015. Fortunately, I think we'll be able to deal with this duty of character, I say, technical. Today we have the appointed director of the office referred to in the regulation, which is the structure at European level. We have a total of 10 existing European political parties. They all actually function in European capitals - and this is probably what the future will look like - i.e. in Brussels and Luxembourg. There is nowhere else, according to the knowledge we have, any European political party or perhaps a European political foundation. For obvious reasons, there is a focus of political life at transnational level, at European level. The Member asked about the risks. We do not find them, at least at the level of our project and our national adjustment obligation. The level of the European act, or regulation, is not something that we are discussing today, but we also know nothing about the existence of any problems with the functioning at European level of this type of creation. As you can see - 10 entities - scale is very small. Perhaps it will grow, but probably not avalanchely. This is not a bill addressed to a mass recipient, these are rare beings. This is due, for example, to the fact that this is a European level. With regard to the questions of Mrs Pomaska, the reference to the procedure that is really taking place, I do not know the details because the prosecution is dealing with it, not the Ministry of Justice. I'm gonna skip all that pity talk. After all, it is not about financing a European political party or a European political foundation, it is about certain settlements. Since for two years in the course of this procedure, contrary, I believe, to those who have been reporting, has not been revealed... [[Nothing's been done about it.]] ...nothing reprehensible, it's probably not much out there, or at least it hasn't been revealed so far. Are there any obstacles to this? There is no obstacle to the entity which, in accordance with Article. 10 may request that a European political party be removed from the register, there was a prosecutor general, because there was no, there is no and there will never be a reference to specific personalities in the bill. Today's Attorney General is Zbigniew Ziobro, there was someone else yesterday, and there'll probably be someone else tomorrow. This is about an office whose role is to uphold the rule of law and as such an office within the meaning of Article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3rd regulation, which is implemented by this draft law, would represent the Polish state if there were such a situation that it would be necessary to ask the office to terminate the European political party. The situation is completely hypothetical, as it seems in the light of the data that I referred to, because there is no European political party or political foundation in Poland, and we do not know anything about it in the near future. And even if there were irregularities and irregularities, it is not the Minister, the Attorney General of Ziobro or any other Attorney General in the future that will decide to delete, only the office at the central, European level based in Brussels. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u539	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on the European political party and the European political foundation, contained in print No 2827, to the European Union Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 31 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor (Print No 2826). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Marcin Ociepa to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u540	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Act is another legal act that we would like to introduce solutions that will implement the philosophy of our government - making Polish law, Polish laws, Polish legal system as friendly as possible to entrepreneurs. Several of these objectives are achieved through individual records. In general, it is to be faster, easier, cheaper and safer when it comes to the functioning of supervisory offices. We are talking about aspects such as mutual recognition of benefits, e-protocol from technical supervision activities carried out, faster flow of information about damage to the device. Today, when we use the word "easy" in this law, it is certainly important to stress the solution which seems obvious and has not yet been implemented, namely mutual recognition of certificates issued by individual authorities. We are talking about the Technical Control Office, the Transport Dosor Technical and Military Technical Dosor. Finally, entrepreneurs will save time and money because the certificates will be mutually recognised by these offices. It will also be safer because our goal is to increase the safety of the operation of technical equipment. For this purpose, the validity periods of the attestations have been set. We are talking about a minimum period of 5 years or a maximum period of 10 years. The period of validity of these certificates will depend on the type of device. At present such certificates are issued indefinitely, but, of course, the usefulness of the equipment is not unlimited but limited, and it is necessary that the supervisory authorities be able to verify their safety and suitability for use during certain periods. However, at the request of the trader himself, the validity of the certificate may be extended free of charge. It'll be faster as well. It will also introduce the possibility of drawing up protocols from the technical supervision activities carried out in electronic form, which will facilitate and speed up cooperation with entrepreneurs. This will also reduce costs in the company and improve the circulation of documents. I would also like to emphasise the issue of the exchange of information. Analysis by the Technical Inspection Office and the State Labour Inspection reports show that the cause is more than 90% Unhappy accidents and dangerous damage to the operation and operation of technical equipment were errors in the use of them. As a result of the proposed changes, the maintenance of the technical equipment will be required to notify the relevant technical oversight unit as soon as possible of any dangerous damage or accident related to the use of the device. At the same time, public administrations will provide this information to the technical oversight unit. On the other hand, at the request of public administrations, the Technical Supervision Office will make available information from the records of the technical equipment used. In a word, it is about the efficient flow of information, so that everything is transparent and can serve entrepreneurs - especially entrepreneurs - but also public administrations in carrying out their basic tasks. We are also strengthening ministerial oversight of the bodies of technical oversight units. The new rules provide for the strengthening of the supervision of the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs of the Technical Supervision Authority, similarly as regards the Minister responsible for Transport when we are talking about the Transport Technical Dosor. The Minister will be entitled, among other things, to this task. the right to approve the accounts of the Offices' activities. In conclusion, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, it's supposed to be easier, faster, cheaper, safer, while the surveillance offices will become more business friendly, because they're supposed to be partners in carrying out tasks, earning money, not getting mixed up with the controls and burdens they impose. We want to carry out reforms that will promote entrepreneurship and promote the creation of a friendly, effective and partnership image towards the entrepreneur and the citizen of the administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u541	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor, print no. 2826. The draft concerns the alignment of the provisions of the Technical Dosorage Act with the current legal situation in other areas affecting the operation of the relevant technical supervision units and the improvement of safety in the operation of technical equipment subject to technical supervision. The proposed amendments to the Law of 21 December 2000 on Technical Dosore, hereinafter referred to as the Technical Dosore Act, are in line with the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers. The work undertaken in 2017 on the revision of this law aims at adapting the provisions of the Act to the current legal situation in other areas affecting the operation of the relevant technical supervision units and increasing the safety in the operation of technical equipment subject to technical supervision. These amendments aim to clarify the rules and improve the selected areas of the technical supervision system while reducing administrative barriers for entrepreneurs. The proposed provisions also implement the recommendations made following the inspection of the Supreme Audit Chamber at the Technical Supervision Office in 2016. Technical oversight bodies shall carry out statutory tasks to ensure the safe operation of technical equipment. The activities in this area have a direct bearing on the safety of operators operating technical equipment, operating, maintaining, repairing, modernising, but above all bystanders often unaware of the existence of operating technical equipment in their surroundings. The tasks carried out therefore fall within the general concept of public security. In the current legal state, the minutes of the technical supervision unit's performance shall be drawn up only in paper form. Although the provisions of the Act do not impose a specific form of protocols, written or electronic, it is appropriate to specify the possibility to draw up such protocols also in electronic form. In addition, the existing provisions of the Technical Dosore Act use terminology for determining the level of fees for checking qualifications which have not been applied since 2003. In this respect, it is necessary to adapt the rules to the existing legal situation. Verification of the qualifications of persons operating and maintaining technical equipment shall be confirmed by certificates of qualification issued directly. Studies and analyses of accidents on equipment subject to technical supervision show that operational errors are the main cause of them. According to the Office of Technical Supervision, the analysis of accidents and hazardous damage to technical equipment related to 2016, as many as 94.5% the causes of unfortunate accidents are operational errors, including those related to the operation and maintenance of technical equipment. In addition, an important proposal for a change is to introduce in the Act solutions enabling the use of one document - decision, qualification certificate - in Poland empowering entities to manufacture, repair or modernise (a right in the form of a decision) and among others. operation and maintenance. This is a qualification certificate for technical equipment for which both WDT, TDT and UDT can be appropriate, i.e. voivodship technical supervision, Technical Transport supervision and Technical Supervision Office. At present, doubts in such cases may arise from the lack of sufficient precision of the law as to the authority's competence, in particular in the event of a partial overlap of such powers. This law introduces the possibility for these three supervisory bodies to honour decisions and certificates issued. High Izbo! The Act does not provide for financial implications for both the state budget and companies, and significantly increases the level of security, simplifies procedures for both offices and companies. This is a very necessary law and enters into force on 1 January 2019. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour and I ask the High House to approve this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u543	Thank you. Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would not like to repeat here after my honourable previous speaker the whole set of arguments to support the introduction of this law. We agree that it is appropriate to define the possibility of producing protocols by electronic means - this is very important in a time of progressive digitalisation. There is no doubt that updating terminology and nomenclature is also very important. It is also important to adapt the current technical surveillance rules, the efficiency of the various safety devices and to ensure that they comply with European Union rules. That is why the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u545	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz club15. There is no Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u546	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on Technical Dosorage included in print No 2826. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the justification given, this draft law aims to act in a series of, I would say, areas governed by this law, among others. clarification of rules, streamlining of certain administrative procedures, while reducing administrative barriers for entrepreneurs. Designed recipes are, I think, important. They shall also carry out the findings of the Supreme Audit Chamber following that inspection carried out in 2016. Of course, I'm not going to be discussing this whole project right now. On the one hand, the time, these 5 minutes, in fact, does not allow much, on the other hand, the law will certainly be the subject of a wider and deeper debate, and at least I hope so, during the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, so I will only point out the things that we consider important. These are those cases where procedures are simplified, where e.g. it will be possible to draw up part of the documentation in electronic form. In addition, we appreciate the changes that will occur in accordance with Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6, i.e. in terms of improving the situation of the exploiters - they will no longer have to wait for the decision to become final, but immediately upon receiving this decision can carry out the activities which are the subject of this decision. There's one thing I want to say that raises our doubts. The amendments contained in the article. Article 22 (2) (b) 3a introduce an obligation to update the validity of the qualification certificates in the sense that this will entail additional costs which are not present at the moment. Perhaps it is necessary to find some kind of golden measure so that these costs again do not cause negative developments in this market that they will be concerned with. The law also contains such a part, I would say, an organizational-crayon. On the one hand, we read in the explanatory memorandum that the additional position, the second vice-president, is the result of an audit carried out by the Supreme Audit Chamber in 2016, but frankly, by reviewing and looking for this reference in the NIK protocol, it cannot be found there, so this is also, I would say, a curiosity. I hope that the provisions that have been presented to the High House on these organisational changes, despite the article that guarantees the stability of working relations, will not reduce the technical potential of this particular layer of staff, as this would be to the detriment of technical supervision. Ladies and gentlemen! In general, changes to the law are positive, therefore on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern proposal to send the project to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u547	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u548	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Technical Supervision Office is an important institution because it deals with the wide-ranging security of devices that affect our widely understood security as citizens as residents. And it's hard to imagine the operation of companies, companies, devices without a functioning Technical Control Office. I wouldn't overestimate that, Minister, he said that it would have such a huge impact on the growth of entrepreneurship, because you have repeatedly used this populist phrase at the moment, we give in to the term "we." Yesterday we had a discussion about improvements, improvements in our law, because this is what we hear again, and government representatives are very emotional about it. And what does it turn out to be? Yesterday's discussion also proved that the more we improve, the more problems and problems there are. Because what are the entrepreneurs waiting for? First of all, for the law to be clear and transparent, as rare as possible and as small as possible, because you have to read volumes of files later, and no one is able to read and understand it, and there comes the next change. We will want to work on this bill, to support good solutions, because they are needed, but above all, as already indicated, they are also due to progress, from time, from changing other regulations, from the possibility of simplification - in the sense of electronic solutions. That's important too. Therefore, we are, as the Polish People's Party Club - the Union of European Democrats, in favour of passing on the project for further procession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u549	Thank you very much. Two Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list of requests for questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Mr Antoni Duda, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u550	Sorry, 15 seconds longer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u551	No, no way. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u552	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We note with satisfaction the initiative of the Government of the United Right to amend the next law, this time the Law of December 2000 on the Technical Doorway which is part of the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. This amendment aims to bring the UDT rules into line with the current legal situation and to increase safety in the operation of technical equipment subject to technical supervision. Activities in this field shall have a direct impact on the safety of operators operating technical equipment, operating, maintenance, repairing, but above all on outsiders in the environment of such equipment. The analysis of unfortunate accidents indicates that they cause 85% of accidents. is a human factor. Such situations are contributed to, among others, the situation. the fact that the currently issued unlimited qualification certificates allow the worker to operate and maintain the equipment even after a long period of interruption in the performance of these activities. The introduction of timely certificates will have a significant impact on the safety of these technical equipment. However, it should be noted that for persons holding such a certificate and performing ongoing tasks related [[♪ The bell ♪]] with service is possible to extend it for another period. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u553	Thank you very much. Yes, sir, with discipline. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party. [[Mr. Marshal, it was my time to give up on him. He spoke very wisely.]] Well, that's a very gentlemanly thing to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u554	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for you. Once it was discussed, there was a concept to connect the Technical Control Office with the Transport Technical Supervision Authority. There have been some calculations, there have even been discussions in this area. Isn't such solutions being considered at the moment? It would also be savings, because certain things, as has been said here, are intertwined. There would be less administration, less management. Is that what's going on right now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u555	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Ociepa corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u556	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for all your speeches and questions. I particularly thank you for these votes of support, because indeed the bill should not cause political controversy. These records are expected by entrepreneurs. I'm sure there's one thing I'd like to straighten out here. I was talking about it, and I wouldn't want any interference. Mr Mirosław Suchoń pointed out that asking for an extension of the qualification certificates would entail additional costs. I made it clear that there is a provision in the Act that these qualification certificates can be renewed free of charge. [[Up to 10 years.]] I think it is worth saying here that this provision should remain for a simple reason: citizens and entrepreneurs expect us and the institutions of the state to carry out certain tasks. They expect that if the Office of Technical Supervision gives a certificate of qualification, it gives it to a person who is prepared for it, trained that later this certificate in this sense will not lose its validity with the loss, I apologize, for example. competence or technological progress. We will defend this to extend these certificates, because they carry out another fundamental task of the Technical Supervision Authority: guaranteeing the safety of the operation of these devices, the safety of their use. This is absolutely in the interest of the users of these devices themselves, because their safety, their lives and their health are at stake here. So that the validity of such certificate may be renewed free of charge. I humbly accept Mr Kasprzak's speech, speaking of not brag about pro-entrepreneurial changes in our law, although I do not agree with him. I believe that this is something that we should be happy with, something that should be praised, because Polish entrepreneurs have waited many years for records that have been introduced in the business constitution, a package of laws, these five laws. Also, this law that we are working on today, which we are putting forward to the High House, is the best example that in other legal acts we are also trying to sew up, write down various kinds of solutions that will be pro-entrepreneurial. It seems that entrepreneurs will absolutely benefit from what this law entails in terms of reciprocity of recognised certificates, the use of electronic correspondence or protocols in electronic form. But as for the question of connection, there are no such plans. Of course, there are supporters of both solutions. I would not like to exceed my powers either, because there is still a minister competent for transport. He probably has an opinion about his oversight of Transport Technical Control. I just want to say, quote the words of the current president of the Technical Supervision Office, who is here in the Chamber. As I took the substantive supervision of his work, he told me one thing, which is part of the philosophy of our government's operation. Namely, he said that he wanted to change the perception of the word "government" in the case of the Technical Supervision Office. It is about seeing the word "government" as a modern office as a friendly office as a flexible office. That's what we're focusing on. I firmly believe that such positive changes are also taking place in Transport Technical Dosor and in all other institutions of government administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u557	Thank you very much, Minister. One minute to correct for the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u558	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! I wasn't talking about the cost of the extension. I was talking about the cost of the extension. confirmation of qualifications. Here you must agree that this confirmation of qualifications will cost you. This qualification check is free? For free? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u559	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor, contained in print No. 2826, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 32 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Law on Police and some other laws (Print No 2828). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The provisions of the proposed law are to be a continuation of the changes to the Polish anti-terrorist system, which was initiated by the Sejm with the adoption of the Act of 10 June 2016 on anti-terrorist activities. The solutions introduced at the time were the first stage of changes in the Polish anti-terrorist system and were a response to an increase in the terrorist threat in Europe. They were also an expression and manifestation of the implementation of the Law and Justice Programme, because we announced such actions and such a need. We have identified this need by preparing our programme, even like other European countries that have already had such rules in their systems. These solutions were also involved in international action to strengthen the tools to counter and respond to terrorist incidents. From the point of view of the coordination of national services and bodies forming part of the anti-terrorism system, the most important solution contained in the Act was the introduction of a precise division of tasks carried out in the various phases of anti-terrorist action. In accordance with the rules, the Head of the Internal Security Agency is responsible for preventing terrorist incidents and for preparing to take control of terrorist incidents, reacting in the event of such incidents and restoring the resources to respond to those events, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs. The consequence of this division of competences was the introduction of a detailed mechanism for the coordination of terrorist incidents at the site. The Act identifies the Police as the formation responsible for directing counter-terrorism activities. These include counter-terrorist actions, i.e. actions against perpetrators of terrorist offences, carried out using specialised forces and means and specialised tactics to eliminate the direct threat of life, health or freedom of persons or property. This issue is directly reflected in the catalogue of statutory tasks set out in the Police Act. In accordance with the Anti-Terrorism Act, a police officer designated to direct anti-terrorist activities has been assigned specific powers, inter alia. with regard to the management of the counter-terrorist group. The group may include police officers, Border Guards, Internal Security Agency and soldiers of the Military Gendarmerie or the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. Importantly, the group was granted the possibility of the so-called. the special use of weapons in cases where this is necessary to counter an attack on human life or health or to release a hostage, and the use of firearms in a manner that does the least possible harm is insufficient and it is not possible to counter such an attack or release of the hostage otherwise. Dear Members, High Seym! The changes introduced by the Anti-Terrorism Act have been developed at the level of internal police regulations, which was the second stage of changes in the Polish anti-terrorist system. In order to improve the structure of counter-terrorist units of the Police by decision of the Chief of Police of 21 April 2017, the anti-terrorist sections of the police's own anti-terrorist units have been replaced by the anti-Terrorist units of the Police which functioned so far. This has brought together the structure of anti-terrorist units at the level of voivodship commands. However, these changes require a continuation at the statutory level. The police's own anti-terrorist units, as well as the anti-terrorist sections, were treated for years mainly as units to support criminal and investigative services, among others. during arrests of particularly dangerous perpetrators. In order to ensure the conditions for a more effective implementation of the action, it is necessary to define more effective mechanisms for the disposal of counter-terrorism units and counter-terrorism units throughout the country and the introduction of a uniform chain of command. It is also necessary to harmonise the tactics of action and the level of training of these units. To this end, the proposed law amending the Police Act and certain other laws provides for separation within the framework of the Police Counter-Terrorism Service. This service will be entrusted with the responsibility for counter-terrorist activities and supporting the activities of police agencies under conditions of special threat or requiring the use and application of specialised forces and means and specialised tactics of action. This will increase the capacity to respond to terrorist threats as well as improve the activities of other police units related to the implementation of particularly dangerous activities. The service will consist of the Central Counter-Terrorist Division of the BOA Police and independent units of counter-Terrorist Police. In the name of the Central Counter-Terrorist Division of the BOA Police, a shortcut to the name of the existing Anti-Terror Operations Office was left in the bill. This is due to the recognition of the above. the names in the Europol forum of the Atlas Group, which brings together the special intervention units of the European Union States. Besides, this name is already in the Polish legal system, in naming, in associations strongly established, so we leave it. The BOA will be an organizational unit of the Police directly subordinate to the Chief Police Officer. Supporting activities of the BOA in the field of organizational, personnel, logistics and technical services will be provided by the Police Headquarters. High Seym! In order to harmonise the system of operation and the organisation of independent police counter-terrorist divisions, the proposed law provides for the BOA to assign competence to coordinate, prepare and implement counter-terrorist actions of the police, including to direct to the activities of independent police counter-terrorist units. Thus, the BOA will exercise substantive supervision over the implementation of combat and training activities and the use of independent forces and resources of the police counter-terrorist divisions. This element was missing in the current legal situation. The project also foresees that counter-terrorism activities will be carried out by the BOA and the police's own counter-terrorism units with priority before other actions, which will provide adequate tools to respond to terrorist incidents. The key elements to ensure the effectiveness of counter-terrorism activities are the speed of response and the ability to provide adequate police forces with a uniform chain of command. An important element of the proposed solutions is the provision of appropriate qualifications for counter-terrorism command staff. The project adopted a solution whereby the commander of the BOA and his deputy, as well as the commanders and deputy commanders of the counter-terrorist units of the police, will be appointed from among the officers of the counter-terrorist service. The command of counter-terrorism activities requires special knowledge and experience, specific qualifications. They can only be acquired when serving in the counter-terrorist unit, including the Police Division, which will be under the command of the commanders or deputy commanders of these structures, and thus involve the execution of activities using specialized tactics and in life-threatening conditions. The project also provides for candidates to be appointed as commander of the BOA, its alternates, as well as commanders of independent units of counter-terrorist police and their alternates to verify the conduct of the service or to guarantee the proper performance of their duties. These commanders will be included in the list of posts which are already subject to such a verification procedure. High Seym! Specialist counter-terrorism tactics require the adoption of specific training arrangements for its officers. The proposal therefore provides for the possibility of refraining from complying with the rules and principles of health and safety of the service with all safeguards available under the relevant conditions. This will be possible if a police officer of the counter-terrorism service finds that there is a likelihood of saving human life or reversing a threat to the security of the State when carrying out his duties in circumstances justified by a higher degree of necessity. This provision will allow the use of all means to save lives by counter-terrorism police officers. A similar solution already exists in the laws governing the activities of services such as Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, Military Counterintelligence Service and Military Intelligence Service. Following the introduction of this solution, it was considered appropriate to define the provisions of the Police Act by unambiguously assigning to the Service Superior responsibility for ensuring appropriate safety and hygiene conditions for professional training or improvement services, in particular through direct coercion measures, as well as personal protective equipment or firearms. The precise health and safety conditions of the service during the course of training or professional improvement will be laid down in the implementing act of the Act. This will apply not only to the operation of the counter-terrorism service but also to all police officers. This will ensure appropriate training conditions throughout the formation, taking into account the specific features of direct coercive measures, personal protective equipment or firearms. Legal doubts regarding the responsibility of the superior for the organisation of vocational training or improvement will also be eliminated. This will ensure a high level of security for police officers, which is very important during training. Making the proposed changes, their introduction by the High Sejm is envisaged under the current permanent status of the Anti-Terror Operation Bureau of the Police Headquarters and the independent units of the anti-Terrorist Police. Their introduction will therefore not entail any additional burden on the state budget. However, it will significantly improve the organisational structure of police counter-terrorist units and make them more efficient. So these changes are actually organisational and do not entail additional costs, additional jobs. High Izbo! I ask for a positive assessment of the solutions presented in the project. I would like to stress the importance of the proposed legislation for the effectiveness of police counter-terrorism units, with the result that you will be able to respond to terrorist incidents and threats. The newly established service will complete the operation so far isolated within the Police Service, and I would remind you that today we have in the Police services: criminal, investigative, internal affairs, preventive and supporting police activities. This next counter-terrorist service will arrive as a separate police force. Until now, the Bureau of Anti-Terror Operations of the Police Headquarters and the police's own anti-terrorist units have functioned as preventive services, which did not correspond to the specific scope of their tasks and the special tactics used by the officers of these units. This case seems obvious. The proposed changes will ensure uniform preparation for response to terrorist collisions across the country based on an improved chain of command. High Seym! I am convinced that the introduction of these rules will ensure greater efficiency in police operations in situations requiring this. In order to warn the questions, I will say that it is not so that we are currently observing some special threats of a terrorist nature in Poland, but we need to prepare solutions that may be - hopefully never - necessary. Therefore, the High House is very much asking for support, preferably above the political divisions of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u561	Thank you kindly. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u562	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I took part in the privilege of presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the governmental draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws contained in Parliamentary Printing No 2828. This bill entered the Marshal's staff on 7 September. and was sent to first reading on 12 September. The project comprises 9 articles and aims to ensure effective mechanisms for the operation of police agencies competent in the implementation of counter-terrorism activities. The lack of a uniform system for the operation of police anti-terrorist sub-groups and the lack of adequate regulation of the safety and hygiene of the service in the course of the performance of their duties and in the course of professional improvement in the context of counter-terrorism activities within the meaning of the Anti-Terrorism Act of 10 June 2016. As we read in the explanatory memorandum attached to the project: the effectiveness of actions in this area requires the adoption of optimal organisational solutions, a uniform chain of command and effective mechanisms of disposal, adequate to the risks, resources and means of guaranteeing both the efficient conduct of counter-terrorism activities and support actions in relation to other types of police services within the meaning of Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1th Police Act. It is therefore planned to establish the Central Counter-Terrorist Division of the BOA Police, which, together with the independent counter-Terrorist units of the Police, will constitute a counter-terrorism service. In order to maintain historical continuity as regards the name of the Central Counter-Terrorist Division of the BOA Police, the project leaves a shortcut for the name of the existing Anti-Terror Operation Bureau, this time in the form of its own name. This is due to the recognition of this name in a forum within Europol of the Atlas Group which brings together the special intervention units of the European Union States. The BOA will be directly subject to the Chief of Police, and the counter-terrorism units themselves will be directly subject to the competent local commanders of the voivodship or the Chief of Police. The bill also sets out the way in which the commanders and their deputies are elected, both in the BOA and in the independent sub-options of counter-terrorist police, and the person competent to delegate the responsibility of the BOA commander in the event of dismissal. The project also provides for organisational and practical solutions, as well as adjustments, through appropriate changes both in the Police Act and in other laws specified in the project. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In today's world, when a terrorist threat is growing, treated as a way of fighting not only politically but also religiously, and, more generally, culturally or even civilizationally, it must not be underestimated to the slightest extent. The Government of the Republic of Poland and all subordinate services are obliged to protect the country and citizens from possible terrorist attacks. It is the duty of the High House to create such a right to create as much as possible conditions suitable for the practical operation of Polish anti-terrorists, including during counter-terrorist activities. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports all actions aimed at increasing the security of citizens, as well as increasing the sense of this security. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of a government draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws for further legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u563	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Wójcik, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law presented by the government is in fact an organisational change, because the existing anti-terrorist units, the Bureau of Anti-Terror Operations and independent anti-terrorist units, will be managed and led in a different way, in a more centralised manner. This is indeed another organisational model, which has its advantages, which the Minister spoke about - this is a question e.g. standardisation of equipment, standardisation of procedures, standardisation of training. On the other hand, the existing model, in which the independent anti-terrorist divisions are more independent and subordinate to the voivodship commanders, also has its advantages, because today it is the voivodship commanders that respond more flexibly to the needs of these units. We will want to discuss the details of this project with the Minister, but above all with the Chief Police Officer during committee meetings. We would like to know how these changes will affect, among others. to the command system of these units, in response to the incident, to the development and financing of these units, as well as to the situation of officers, mostly in independent anti-terrorist sub-measures. And today we don't say no. We are open to this kind of discussion, stressing that it is in fact an organisational change, because it is still based on current individuals. In addition, in your explanatory statement, you say that actually you do not even anticipate any increase in the number of posts, but a change in the organisational formula. On the other hand, I do not agree with the wording that this law is some sort of response to the current terrorist threat, because events in the world have shown that the nature of terrorist threats has changed somewhat. The threats we've been preparing for so far, such as the hostage situation that the SPATs or the BOA have handled well, are going back to the past. Today, most terrorist threats are more of an active shooter, a single attacker. And it's a very important time to react to this kind of event. Surely the timing of the ordinary police patrol's reaction in such a situation is crucial because the police patrol is on the scene when someone in a public place is trying to assassinate or some madman is just trying to kill someone, so the response time of the cops who get to the scene first is crucial. And we should prepare these police officers for these kinds of challenges. However, it is known that the use of anti-terrorist divisions, or as we now call them - counter-terrorist divisions, requires much longer time to mobilize these troops, achieve combat readiness and arrive. Therefore, we need to consider both situations. We're not telling this bill. We will talk about details, we are open to discussion, but we hope that all the benefits, but also the risks associated with this project, will be discussed directly at committee meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u565	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Civic Platform Club... [[I've got two more minutes.]] Yeah, it is. The remaining time will be used by Mr Tomasz Szymański.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u566	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, you do not really change this design or the nature of the service, or the operational capacity, or the number of formations to secure... You're changing your name. You're making counter-terrorist units out of anti-terrorists. In the definition there are small differences, although there are. In fact, nothing - in addition to the organisational changes according to the justification that the Minister has quoted - follows from this law. That is why we are very curious about what in fact in this law, in this change, including the establishment of a new central division together with sub-groups subordinate to the voivodship commanders is really about. In my opinion, any type of organisational change must entail financial costs, without which I cannot imagine any organisational change. The important thing, however, is to maintain the level of security of citizens so that the police formation does not have to go out on the streets like yesterday. Several thousand police officers on Warsaw streets, several thousand vacancies in the police service - that's what we should be doing right now, just the day after these events. That is why I hope that this bill, this proposal that the Minister makes here through his colleagues, will be a material to which we, as the Civic Platform, will also be able to make our comments. I hope that something constructive will come out of this project for both the service itself and, above all, for the citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u567	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak, the Kukiz club15, made a written statement. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u568	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a detailed project ahead of us that deals with a particular case. In fact, today, when it comes to the police, but not just the police, we have a general problem. Clearly, the police are in a crisis which is the result of decisions taken by the Government of Law and Justice. And this great crisis, which was expressed by the demonstration of uniformed services in Warsaw, not only by the police, is visible in many aspects of the operation. But what's to be surprised if the greatest dynamics are more related to creating some kind of Byzantine, rather than conditions that will allow the police and other services to function efficiently. Of course, I could remind here that all Poland saw confetti, that all Poland saw a red sidewalk, that all Poland saw an officer walking behind the Minister with an umbrella, as if he could not be in another place, or how the Minister handed out keys to cars that had been on the road for a long time, or I could remind you of policemen who were parading on horses in the city in disguise. Of course, there are serious problems that the Law and Justice have provided for their actions in the police itself, i.e. the changing commanders, the lack of willingness to serve, the sting of young policemen to Poles and Poles who exercise their constitutional rights, or the use of police to protect party demonstrations of Law and Justice ended by silent opposition of some garrisons in Poland. In addition, there is the concealment of information, facts related to visits by important law and justice politicians, such as: Minister Beata Kempa, at the police stations. To this day, we do not know why she was in Syców and why you were hiding information about it. At the end of this, I would say, a lighter catalogue can be reminded of a situation in which opposition politicians, Members of the opposition, are not invited to the opening ceremony of new commands, although they say it is for the benefit of the local community, supposedly even for the personal order of the Minister, as it was in Bielsko-Biała. I would still mention the treatment of officers who served free Poland for 30 years, worse than the treatment of criminals, in the process of taking away their pensions. It was lighter faults, we could probably discuss heavier ones longer - Wrocław related to events for which people hiding these events did not have consequences. So Wrocław and the death of Igor Stachowiak. To this day, it has not been established who carried banners calling for hatred during the Independence March, even though it has been almost a year - nothing to do. Minister, on the one hand. It is good that you present such a project, on the other hand I feel that you do not feel the situation in which Polish services are located, because it is not cheerful. As regards the bill, it has already been presented here, which is its purpose, namely to separate the service of anti-terrorist divisions and to establish a counter-terrorist service, i.e. a central division and several separate units of counter-terrorist police. Of course, the project contains a number of provisions allowing for the creation of detailed entries. Draft regulations were also presented. It is not known whether they will enter into force in this formula and in the way in which they are presented, but we already have some doubts about competence. This is what the Minister was talking about, which is that today there are basically intervention branches, and this project is to be created a new pawn, which may involve the imposition of different competences of different services. Today, the area of terrorism is part of the ABW, but counter-terrorism is an important and sensitive issue. Therefore, it is known that any such action, any conflict puts our country at risk of additional problems. We will ask that the Minister explain these doubts, including financial issues, command issues, officers, in the course of the committee procedure, because these are important matters in this area. Given this position, I request that this proposal be submitted to the committee for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u569	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u570	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Law of 6 April 1990 on Police over the duration of its validity was subject to repeated amendments, not always, as time shows, rational. In fact, the draft law presented to the High House is intended to lead to a different model for the operation of anti-terrorist units by ensuring effective mechanisms of the police's organisational units responsible for the implementation of counter-terrorist actions. It can already be seen with the naked eye that the chief of police is taking away further powers without, however, taking away any responsibility for the operation of the newly established structures. Under the pretence of setting up a new counter-terrorism service as an extraordinary unit within a unified, armed formation, extraordinary sub-formations are created for different tasks, regardless of the reality and the need to create them. At this point I cannot not share with the High House that in recent days I have had the pleasure of meeting with very valuable and experienced officers, who - as I say - have never and in any case over the years of serving even been associated with any political option. And it is these officers who have made me realize what is really the purpose of this new separation of different organizational cells, and ask me when there will be a traffic chief, a police chief, a police chief, an own investigation chief, and when a new chief of chief for police crime labs will be appointed, it is extremely important, and maybe priority. Such unambiguous statements are not Truism, because they are a signal, as long as the Polish Police will be a unified, armed formation, and when there will be a time of competition between independent priests within a single body. Polish People's Party - The Union of European Democrats did not stand, stand and stand in opposition to smart, rational solutions, but in such sensitive situations as changes or changes in the rules on resorts so-called. We will always maintain common sense as parliamentarians and, after all, ordinary citizens. Above all, it is our duty to listen to such important matters in the voice of specialists - I stress: in the voice of specialists - practitioners, and hence not to create law under the will of present or subsequent decision-makers. The decision-makers pass, the provisions of the law remain even the most irrational, which forces not only officers who implement these provisions, but even their superiors either to circumvent them or not at all or ultimately to apply with at least mediocre effect. In this situation, in order to make any decision by my club, I request that the draft law discussed today be directed to further work in the Parliamentary Committee, but from this point of view I will now demand very specific reasons supported by numerous examples to support the argument that the lack of power in the operation of today's structures is simultaneously documented, for example, a significant improvement in the fight against terrorism by the new structures proposed in the draft law, as well as taking a clear, authoritative position on the subject matter of the project by the Chief Police Commissioner. Such a substantive discussion will lead to my club's position on this matter. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u571	Thank you. Mrs Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Three of your fellow Members. Mr Marek Wójcik, first Member of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u572	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The debate concerns anti-terrorist troops, which will, of course, always be needed in the police as specialised units for counter-terrorist actions or support other actions, but in the face of current terrorist threats, precisely the threats of the type of active shooter, it is important how ordinary police officers are prepared to respond to such events, after all, to arrive first. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether police officers have adequate personal protective equipment today. Can you tell the minister how many bulletproof vests the police have, how many helmets they can secure those ordinary police officers who just drive to a spot on patrol, which will be the first on this type of incident? I would also like to ask if there are any trainings to [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepare police officers to prevent this kind of incident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u573	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! Minister! As a man of humanistic education, I would like to raise some language issues, perhaps more a matter of nomenclature. Because in the Police Act in Art. 4 There was no mention of counter-terrorist services or anti-terrorist services, and it seems to me that this record is clearly indicated there, while the Anti-Terrorism Act clearly states what distinguishes anti-terrorist activities from counter-terrorist activities. Anti-terrorist is a broader concept than counter-terrorist. I also draw attention to Chapter 4: Anti-terrorist activities at the site of terrorist events, including counter-terrorism activities. You will admit that talking about counter-terrorist troops - it is even difficult to pronounce - in the sense of the average man [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can function badly, the more that...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u575	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u576	...on television we always hear about anti-terrorist activities, not counter-terrorist actions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u577	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u578	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two lines. The first concerns the scope of the tasks. I talked about this in my club speech and I wanted to ask you about the scope of the tasks and ask the Minister to respond. First of all, how will these tasks go hand in hand with the tasks of other servants? Isn't there going to be some kind of conflict here? Secondly: What would I say will be the contribution of individual actions already in the activities of this new formation? The point is whether ordinary police units will be able to count on support when they need it, to the same extent as it is today. If not, will there be any other formulas for this support so that it doesn't run out? Here's another thing. I understand that this is, however, an attempt to create a new formula, and I have a question: Why do you not provide for an increase in funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u579	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Long ago, it was a great honor to work in uniforms for those who wore Polish police uniforms, troops or other uniforms. That may be the case today, but more is needed for all uniformed services. The security of all Poles is the responsibility of those who defend us. It is important that they do not have to protest, as I saw yesterday on the streets of Warsaw. Will the government take care of the Polish uniformed services so that their employees are properly rewarded for their hard work and risking their lives, as well as that, for our safety, they are equipped with the highest quality equipment? I'll add, it's getting better. I was in Białogard recently, where a new police station is being built. This means that it is going to be good, and all we have to do is improve the finances so that those who defend us and protect us can live a decent life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u581	Thank you very much. We have concluded Members' speeches. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I regret to say that there were few substantive comments and questions to the bill. Much of the club's speeches and questions were political issues. Please don't expect me to enter into such political controversy right now, because this is not the time or the place. We want to present a bill, which is very much needed to increase the capacity of counter-terrorist actions of the Polish Police. What is the justification for this project? I tried to say that in my first speech. With regard to the various assessments that have been outlined here, I would just like to say that the facts absolutely do not confirm any crisis in the Polish Police or other services. On the contrary. We are implementing a programme of modernization, 9200 million PLN for 4 years for four types of service. This is the second edition of this program. The first was adopted in 2007 also at the initiative of the Government of Law and Justice, now it is second, and we are already thinking about the third, another, because we know that we will have to continue these good changes in Polish services. The services will need to be further modernised, also increasing the payment of officials and the remuneration of employees, as this should be a continuous process. Unfortunately, there have been these increases for 8 years of PO-PSL government, there has been no modernisation program, police stations have been shut down in mass. Contrary to the protests of local government officials and residents, more than half of them were destroyed. Now we're reactivating these precincts. We are building new objects for this purpose, because some of the former objects have been dedicated to other purposes, and therefore they are no longer used by the police. We buy new equipment, new means of transport. All you have to do is say that the cars themselves... Only in the police are we going to replace 1/3 of the transport rolling stock. Of 21 600 used cars over 7 thousand. We'll trade it for new ones, we'll buy it at that time. We also buy new weapons, communications, etc. We also raise salaries and, of course, hire new cops. Those who empathize with false information that there is a staff crisis in the police, both in command positions and with regard to the admission of new officers, I will say that only in September we have accepted nearly 1 000. New cops, exactly 955, and three months ahead of us, in which there will also be recruitment. Of course, we will give you and the public an annual balance sheet at the end of the year. He will not be as tragic as it is announced here, or as some of your fellow Members are trying to claim, and as some union leaders claim, without giving to the full true information. Ladies and gentlemen! There were years under the PO-PSL coalition, that the vacancies in the police were e.g. Six and a half thousand, now it's a much smaller number. I would also like to remind you that you have reduced the PO-PSL coalition by 1,000 in the Polish Police. employment. First it's $3,000, then $2,000. You've returned, there's $1,000 left. less. The previous pre-2009 employment rate was 103 309 and was 102 309. In 2017, we returned this 1 000 to the Polish Police. employment. We returned this means that the state budget provided for 1000 more posts in the calculation as regards the salary. So these percentages that are being given today also refer to this restored, original, and thus increased position of office. It's worth remembering. I do not want to refer to such statements, because it is actually below the level of the conversation that Mr Suchoń used. Mr President, I encourage you to study the circumstances that you have called and not to repeat these various nonsenses again. And about... So you wouldn't repeat any of this nonsense. You're asking why you're not invited to a ceremony or a precinct opening. That's probably why you shouldn't be saying such nonsense, isn't it? I think so. 'Cause it's time to get smart. [[Voice from the room: You're thinking wrong.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand everything, I understand political trips, fights, just need to know what you're saying just... [[Mr. Minister, you can't do that.]] ...and you don't know what you're saying. But I'm going to go back to the case that brought us together today, which is the law on amending the Police Act. Ladies and gentlemen, there are absolutely no legitimate concerns that e.g. The response time of counter-terrorism services to events will be increased. No, after all, they remain in their roles as commander of independent counter-terrorist units and will react. It won't be like any decision going through Warsaw, by the head of the BOA. This is a complete misunderstanding and a misconception. We create a more efficient, uniform, police-separated service, which will certainly have better equipment, because with such centralization, even using the modernisation program, it will be easy to purchase the necessary special equipment for these units in the field, just as for the central anti-terrorist division. Besides, this equipment is already purchased, but it will be easier to manage it uniformly. Of course, in situations of greater danger, this uniform service separated as a pawn in the Police throughout the country will certainly respond efficiently, will have uniform command, decisions will be made faster and will be implemented. There is a uniform training programme. That's all the pros, so I think these fears are totally sucked out of their fingers, unwarranted. But we will convince you even more during the discussion in the committee on this subject, because we will mention even more detailed justifications. I'm sure the head of the BOA, who talks about these matters every day, will also speak, and the chief of police, who follows this bill. We'll talk about it. But I would like to reassure you that there are certainly no negative effects from this law, and there are a lot of positive things. Ladies and gentlemen, we're buying helicopters. You left us this state of affairs that the oldest helicopter is 47 years old and the youngest 13 years old. Two helicopters have already been purchased for counter-terrorist service, mainly for its use. There's gonna be more shopping. With this equipment, other equipment components will certainly react even more efficiently, even faster than today, although today is not too bad. Further, as regards the post office in counter-terrorism service, because this topic has also been discussed, today there are more than 150 posts more. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We did in 2017, increased by one hundred and fifty several posts in the anti-terrorist service. She needed it. This was not done by the previous PO-PSL coalition, but again by appreciating the importance of this service. We have strengthened it, strengthened it both in terms of staff and equipment, as well as in terms of organizational, training, uniformity, command efficiency, etc. I don't know, I probably could, even, say a lot about those contexts that you called, but like I said at the beginning, maybe there's no point. I only ask those of you who have such a negative attitude a priori to everything that the government proposes that you take note of the proposals of the MMA regarding the police environment and other uniformed services, because the draft agreement has been presented. These agreements have been signed by civil unions associating civil police personnel. Trade unions bringing together officers - not so far. Yesterday there was a manifestation, but when emotions and dust fall after this manifestation, I am convinced that we will return to talks, agreements and that these agreements will be concluded and we will be able to follow these announcements that have been formulated on their basis. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly remind you that this is, among other things, the announcement of a new modernisation programme after the completion of what we did not see in your time, Mr President, the honourable Members of the PO-PSL coalition, although we have submitted a project, and I was responsible for this project on the part of the Law and Justice Club. We didn't get a chance to process it. You didn't want to continue the modernisation program. We, as announced in the programme, adopted it immediately and implement it, as well as the Anti-Terrorism Act. And now that this program is over, we're about to have a development program for uniformed services for the next few years. The second proposal is to propose additional increases in 2019, as I would like to inform the High House on the occasion. To this increase, which is foreseen from the modernisation programme - PLN 309 on average, plus what results from the annual prizes, actually PLN 359, we added from the funds that were designed in the budget for 2019, PLN 253 on a full-time basis, which together with various prizes gives PLN 610, only that the second increase since July. We're changing -- this is another proposal -- a system of paying, let's say, compensation, because there haven't been any payments in the police for that, in an hour's time. This is a very important change, in a situation where there are vacancies, and probably there will always be some part of the vacancies in the police because some people are coming and others are leaving, there is a fluctuation of staff, hopefully as little as possible, but this is a natural process, and picking up overtime in time by officers makes police officers even less in the service, so we propose a 100 percent overtime payment. I don't know if anyone who came to the demonstration yesterday knows if the union chiefs informed them. We also offer a 100-percent fee to linear officers for sick leave, for L4. Finally, we propose an adjustment in your pension system, which you, Mr Wójcik, have introduced. You're gonna have a chance to make amends because I mentioned a name, you're welcome. There will be a correction in this new pension scheme. He is for those who are accepted after 1 January 2013. There are two requirements: 25 years of service and 55 years of life. We propose to abolish this second threshold, the second cesarean. 25 years of service is sufficient regardless of the age at which the officer reaches this service term. These are probably very positive proposals, this is a good offer, at the same time realistic, because it is based on the budget. The budget, of course, isn't stretchy enough to make all the dreams come true. I have bigger dreams, too, I'm sure each of us has bigger ones, but this really is a good offer, and she meets the expectations of those who join the service, meets the expectations of younger officers. Besides, we already gave them a special raise once since 1 May 2018. It was those of the police groups who received a raise from the second to the fourth, the other officers did not, the additional one for PLN 150 million, because it cost so much. Also the officers of the capital garrison received an increased supplement, 10,000. Officers, about 175 zlotys. Now it is 480 PLN without 10 gr for each job. It hasn't been worth it since 2009, which is again from your governments, the ladies and gentlemen of the Platform and the PSL. etc., etc. This includes, of course, the anti-terrorist service, including the entire police force. And maybe that's it. I'd love to say more because there's something to talk about. Maybe just one more. I'm going to refer to this alleged police crisis. Notice the increase in public confidence in the Polish Police. It has recently increased by several percentage points and is 74%. After World Youth Day it was 72%. It was a very high support then, now it is even 2 percentage points higher. Of course, there are failures, there are various types of incidents that we respond to in a clear way, which I think no one has any doubts about, but in the whole section of the activities of this large service, this large, 100 thousandth formation really needs to be noticed and respected by the officers. It all looks good and even very good, and incidents, failures, pathologies are obviously eliminated and punished and will always be so. As long as we are in power, we will always react this way, but we will always stress the great responsibility of uniform officers, the fact that their service is also dangerous, and we will always take care of them, both in terms of the terms of their service and in terms of salary, which, unfortunately, has not been done by the previous government for 8 years. I would like to say very clearly that the anti-terrorist service is taking advantage of all the possibilities offered by the programme and the modernisation law. I have here a list of the equipment, the amounts that are spent shopping in the police section. That's a lot. We will, of course, continue to do so until the end of this programme. There was a more detailed question about the number of vests or helmets. Mr President, of course I do not remember such a number. You want, we'll count it, we'll give it to you, but I can give you one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] say: there is no shortage of vests or helmets for Polish policemen. Someone asked - I can't remember anymore, I'm sorry that I didn't write down the name of the Member - whether the anti-terrorist training also applies to other police officers, e.g. preventive services. Yes, to a basic degree, they also apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u583	Minister, we're moving slowly to the end. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Yes, Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. So all of this is really rational, but we want it to be even more effective, hence this bill, hence these solutions. I am pleased that Mr Wójcik said here that you are ready to work on this in committee, even the most negative one for our projects. So let's work. I am convinced that if there are no pointless political trips, we will convince you to do the same. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Wójcik is straightening up. He's not gonna talk at the committee meeting? Isn't that what you're doing?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u584	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Marshal, of course I will be speaking in substance at the committee meeting, and the Minister often assigns me some intentions which I do not follow. Really listen to my speech one more time. Indeed, we want to work on this project, and the Minister has provoked me with these statements that are de facto not directly relevant to this project. Let me just remind you that the previous modernisation program, prepared by the sleeper. Minister Stasiak, has implemented the previous government of the previous coalition, just as you have completed the program of standardization of the police, which was prepared by the previous government. Among other things, the huge command in Bielsko-Biała, which my colleague was talking about, was an investment carried out also within the framework of that project, and was only opened by Minister Brudziński, so this is what it looks like. On the other hand, I would also like to remind you that as regards these union demands you have said, this is nothing more than a three-month protest against your commitment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the 2015 election campaign Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u585	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u586	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, '15 I am pleased to express my opinion on the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The aim of the proposed amendment, as justified, is to ensure effective mechanisms for police organisational units carrying out counter-terrorism tasks. This would be done by adopting optimal organisational solutions, a single chain of command and mechanisms to ensure effective disposal of the forces and resources. This scope of tasks is currently being carried out by independent police anti-terrorist units: the Office of Anti-Terror Operations of the Police Headquarters and independent police counter-terrorism units. Attention is drawn to the fact that the way counter-terrorism works is in many respects different from the way in which criminal, investigative and preventive services are carried out, hence the need to separate police anti-terrorist units from the preventive service and to create counter-terrorist services. The newly established service is to consist of the Central Counter-Terrorist Division of the BOA Police and independent units of counter-terrorist police responsible for counter-terrorism activities within the meaning of the Act of 10 June 2016 on Anti-Terrorism and support of police agencies, including. under special risk conditions. The proposed amendments were envisaged within the framework of the current permanent status of the Office for Anti-Terrorism Operations of the Central Command and the independent anti-terrorist sub-groups. The designer also left the name BOA on the grounds of maintaining historical continuity and its high recognition abroad. The bill provides for the assignment of a new formation of competence in the field of coordination, preparation and implementation of counter-terrorism activities in the Police, which means inter alia. the substantive supervision of combat and training activities and the use of independent counter-terrorist sub-groups. The proposed amendment is the next step following the changes introduced in 2016, which extended police tasks to counter-terrorism activities. The draft submitted provides, inter alia, for this purpose. non-compliance with the rules and safety rules in situations where there is a higher need to save human life or to reverse the threat to State security, following the arrangements governing the functioning of other services, i.e. ABW, AW, CBA etc. The commander of the BOA will be appointed by the chief police officer, and the commander of the independent counter-terrorist divisions by the competent voivodeship commanders or the chief of the capital police. The proposed changes are not covered by European Union law. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an important project because it concerns an extremely sensitive sphere. Indeed, a kind of consolidation of dispersed counter-terrorism groups seems right. This can be a good direction for better and more effective action in this field. And this efficiency is the most important thing here. However, it is also important that these structural measures should be followed by measures aimed not only at maintaining the existing establishment, but also at increasing it and, which is very important, money. Therefore, the proposed bill should be discussed in detail in the framework of the work of the committee and even the subcommittee, so that the legislative effect is as effective as possible as an anti-terrorist tool. But since we're talking about the police today, there's no way to move on to the huge problems that policemen are facing. To this day, the low-income case in the police force has not been resolved. To this day, there have been no reservations raised as to the elements of the pension system or the so-called system. L4 in the case of police officers. To this day, print 2185, i.e. the Senate's draft amendment to the Police Act, which illegally discharged officers, cleared by the General Court, grants civil rights: restoration to work and related financial consequences. These are the police's most pressing problems. They're the ones the strikers want to talk about. It's their solution I'm asking for, it just seems to be a cry of a deaf man in the wilderness. If we don't solve these cases as a matter of urgency, there's no structural reform. He won't give us, because there won't be people willing to serve in these structures. I appeal to the government to address these issues seriously and urgently.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u587	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The aim of this project is to harmonise and streamline the system of operation of counter-terrorist troops in Poland. The novel provides for the separation from existing structures in the Central Police of the Counter-Terrorist Police Department of the BOA and 17 independent units throughout the country. Projectors assume that the established unit will deal with the fight against terrorism in Poland as a whole. New regulations on the subject of the novel are needed. I therefore welcome many of the proposed changes. In my opinion, it is important that, according to the new regulations, the Central Counter-Terrorist Unit of the Police will manage 17 independent units. He has used them only so far, and with the permission of the provincial commanders. I am convinced that such a change will improve the way the whole individual works, which will increase the security of citizens. I have no doubt that the improvement of the effectiveness of the BOA will also contribute to the harmonisation of the anti-terrorist training system, which is of particular importance in the case of large-scale action by several independent units at the same time. Above all, however, I am positively assessing the path of improving the professional police of counter-terrorism services. I welcome the fact that, under the new regulations, the commander of the BOA, his deputy and the commanders of the independent divisions will be appointed from among the officers of the counter-terrorism service. In my opinion, this solution will contribute to the efficiency of this unit and will ensure that persons with it managers will have appropriate experience and qualifications. Although there is little terrorist threat in Poland, I am glad that it is not trivialized. The bill - in my opinion - increases our security at no extra cost from the state budget and the liquidation of posts. About Free and Solidarni supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u588	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Law on Police and certain other laws, contained in print No 2828, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Minister, it's not now, it's at the committee meeting, not in the courtroom. [[I'm open to discussion.]] [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: Only one sentence.]] One sentence, Minister, of course, but one sentence. I'll count. [[Voice from the room: Minister, because there are other points.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u589	Yes, sir. Only that the program we introduced reduced by nearly 500 million PLN and extended for the next two years, from 3 to 5. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u590	We proceed with the examination of item 33 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on the circles of rural housewives (prints 2856 and 2891). I ask Mrs Teresa Nolas to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u591	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, to present to you a report on the work of the committee on the government draft law on the circles of rural hostess. Today, the committee has started working on this project. 14 amendments were tabled during the process. These amendments were aimed at, inter alia, at: to give legal personality also to associations of rural host families in the manner and in accordance with the rules applicable to those provided for for the rings of rural hosts, to clarify the provisions ensuring that within one village it is possible to create only one wheel of rural hosts, to introduce an obligation for members of the circle to make statements of their willingness to become part of that circle, to clarify the rights and obligations of the members of the circle as regards the control and supervision of the board of directors of the circle, to clarify the forms of supervision of the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and of the representative of the government for small and medium-sized enterprises over these wheels, to guarantee priority to registration to the existing rings of rural hosts on the basis of the new provisions of the contested law and to clarify the guidelines for the regulation governing the conditions and modalities for granting the special subsidy within 12 months of the entry into force of the law. The Commission adopted by a majority all amendments and authorised the Legislative Bureau to make legislative amendments. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I recommend that the High House continue to proceed with the government draft law on the circles of rural hostess. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u592	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u593	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On this subject We told you yesterday at the first reading of this bill. The Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives is the first law of this type which standardizes the issues of the Wheels of Rural Housewives, gives the Circles of Rural Housewives legal personality, which has not yet been. It makes the rural hostess' circles register their uprisings in the AriMR and will not, as yet, be subject to any social, socio-political organisations. Because it has to be made clear that farming circles are a political organization and do everything they can to politicize the hostess' circles. I know some people in the courtroom don't like that we say so, but that's the reality so far, that's the reality. We're standardizing this pathology because it was often pathology. That's why the bill is expected. I am very pleased that there was a social side at the committee meeting. [[Three people.]] And the social side has repeated several times that this bill is expected, that it is good that there is such a law. That, of course, we need to discuss the records, the details of this bill, but at last somebody thought, and the law that normalizes these matters, presented it. So that I would like to thank the Minister and the Government of Mateusz Morawiecki very much. There's one more thing - financial, I think it's very important too. The rural hostels' circles will receive subsidies from the state budget. It's new, too. It hasn't been like this before. It is a grant from the state budget, not only from the municipality. The municipalities will also be able to subsidize, but a grant is guaranteed from the state budget. Like I said, it's a bill made in the ministry. Like any law, it can have elements that need to be improved somehow. Therefore, Mr Marshal, I would like to make an amendment on behalf of the parliamentary club, which will further clarify this problem. The amendments were also made at the committee meeting, and these are also proposals from the social side. This government listens to proposals, listens to the public. Not only to the social side, but also to the opposition, because the opposition also had a few amendments. We have written these amendments and I would like to make them. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I state that we believe that this law is good, necessary, and that is why we declare that we will support it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u594	Thank you. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u595	Mr. Marshal! I do not see the Minister, but I do see your Members. High Izbo! My previous speaker from Law and Justice has already outdone himself. Yesterday he said that the rural housewives' circles are politicized, and today, it's actually pathology. I wanted to assure you that the rural housewives' circles, no matter who's in charge, will not be politicised. They've been through a lot, they've been through a lot of power. They operate downstairs for their local community in the rural area. They're cultural animators. They really serve the best they can, and the older ones, and the younger generation. They're smart, they've never been politicized, even though there were different authorities. And I assure you that when you wish to formally supervise them... [[I have to correct.]] ...and they won't be politicized either. Unfortunately, there is such a provision in this project, in the explanatory memorandum it may be more developed: The president of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture will supervise the activities of rural host families - but that is not all - in cooperation with the government's representative for small and medium-sized enterprises, with the help of deputy presidents of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, regional branch directors and head of district offices. A representative of the government for small and medium-sized enterprises, in cooperation with the President of the Agency, will be able to appoint rural coordinators to support the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas. Even if I do not know how much supervision you would have introduced into the functioning of the rural hostels' circles, I assure you that they will be autonomous, as they have been for decades, I can say calmly: age. Please, I appeal from this place. The fact that the rural housekeepers' circles in their structure were subject to a union of farmers, circles and agricultural organisations does not mean that these wheels were politicised. They bring together different women, with different political options, they operate in different communities, where the mobs are from right to left. But they're themselves. We will support this bill because we believe that it is in principle good and will serve the housewives' circles. The fact that they're gonna have the opportunity to apply for money is a big plus. Of course, we would like this opportunity to be the same for everyone. That's one thing. Secondly, I also spoke yesterday about this great haste, which - we understand - is necessary for you to boast about this law even during this election campaign. This haste was seen today on the agricultural committee. You have tabled 10 amendments for your own project. We know that's not all, because for example. There's no appeal here. This shows how quickly and sloppyly you have created this bill. And the worst part is that this law applies to several hundred members, several hundred thousand members of the circles of the country housewives. None of them influenced the shape of this bill. No rural hostess could participate in its creation. [[Applause]] [[What if it isn't? Today on the committee, Madam, today on the committee.]] [[Three people were, three.]] And yet many of them are... On the committee today? Mr President, what are you talking about? This project came in last week. Yesterday at half past 1:00 a.m., you were investigating him. Today at the committee meeting you made 10 of your own amendments. Tomorrow we'll vote on it, there'll be a third reading. Not much, please read, the NGOs themselves were counting on it and believed that this project would be consulted with them. He wasn't. In fact, you treat people in this way: alone, like a ram, forward, no matter what the password is, just to announce, as long as it has worked in the election campaign. We will vote for this bill. We support the rural hostels' circles in a personal and respectful manner. We do not agree to their instrumental treatment and to say that their current functioning was pathology. No, it wasn't pathology. I assure you, sir, this has never been the case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u596	Mr Telus, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u597	Mr Marshal, I will not really refer to what you have said, but I would just like to say one thing that you have misunderstood. I didn't say the village housewives' circles were pathology. [[But the Member has already said pathology.]] I said that the circles of the country housewives were subject to a socio-political organization, that's pathology. She misunderstood, which is why I want to correct it. [[You will read the transcript, sir.]] As far as the circles of rural hostesses are concerned, I am working with them and I could also say as much good as the Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u598	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u599	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the government draft law on the circles of rural hostess. It is estimated that there are currently around 26 thousand in Poland. rural hostels with more than 1 million people. It is undoubtedly a large community, which is taking action, among others. the activation of rural communities. Rural hostels' circles carry out their mission in many areas, e.g. organize various kinds of events, promote folklore or cultivate local traditions, although the observation shows that unfortunately in recent times, without taking any merit or hard work, the rural housewives' circles function symbolically in many places, because it is not a definitive trend. This decline in interest in this form of action is probably due to the loss of institutional support and the lack of new legal regulations concerning rural hostels' circles, which would adjust the form of action of the rural hostel's circle to modern times. It should therefore be concluded that the development of wheels is often limited by the lack of formalisation of these organisations, which is to be countered by the proposed law. The main objective of the proposed law is primarily to formalise the functioning of the rural hostels' circles. This will be possible by entering a given rural housewives' circle in the National Register of Rural Housewives. This register will ultimately be kept by the development agency, ARiMR. Under the draft law, the Circle of Rural Houses will be raised to rank with the legal personality of self-governing social organisations of villagers independent of other socio-occupational organisations of farmers, as well as from government administration and local government units. The draft law also sets out the forms and principles of association in the circles of rural hostesses and the mode of establishing and organising internal wheels. Once entered in the register of wheels, it will acquire legal personality. This will solve many problems that rural hostels have been facing for years. Formization states that the possible application for financial grants will become realistic so far, which will certainly contribute to improving the functioning of the rural hostel circles. Such funding options are very important for the wheels, because even local authorities do not have the possibility to account for the financial support provided to rural housewives. The Kukiz Club15 submitted a similar bill aimed at regulating the situation of rural hostels. It is important for us that the provisions of this law will be implemented, no matter what politicians will be involved. For us, it is important that many of the problems faced by rural hostels' circles are solved. Finally, of course, there is a great danger that this law will become a tool for one party. I hope this doesn't happen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u600	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u601	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I want to present the position of the Modern Club on the government's draft law on the circles of rural hostesses. The project was presented by the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Today we had the opportunity to work on this project in committee. Indeed, what I missed most, Minister, apart from your commitment, is actually the other side of the discussion. Why, then, should the Law on the Wheels of Rural Housewives enter into force without a vacathio legis? After all, we depart from this principle if the important interests of the State so require. Can you explain how important this reason for Poland requires that the new law be put into effect now, immediately, so that neither the environment concerned nor the Members have time to read the records and consider the consequences so that the authorities do not have time to prepare for the implementation of the new law? Does the rush force the upcoming election in three weeks? The union of farmers of circles and agricultural organisations has also been involved in the work, because we actually had their representatives today. [[Three people.]] It was three people from this independent, socio-professional organization. However, it is not true that the rural hostels' circles act as informal groups, because they use the legal personality of agricultural circles and regional and voivodeship associations of farmers, circles and agricultural organizations. They were and are supported by their parent relationships, and organizationally, and financially. They were considered a relic of the previous century. After 1990, they were tried to eliminate them, but they survived, including through the support of field organizations. Rural hostels' circles and their associations have been operating on the basis of the social activities of their members for over 150 years. This activity cannot be overestimated. All they need to do is allow them to register on their own in the National Court Register. There's no need again, because that's what happened in the past... The need to have legal personality, registration at the tax office, the need to have an NIP number and the need to keep accounts may discourage some members from taking action. In addition, the new law can become a barrier. The proposed law virtually closes the possibility of working for rural hostels' Circles other than according to its records. Why should the circles of rural hostess function better under the wings of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? Or just because her bosses are called from a political broadcast? Mr Telus said that the organisations were politicised. Mr President, this is an insult to these environments, because it is difficult to talk about politicisation here. If we're talking about politicisation, I'm afraid the consequences of this bill may have just the same characteristics. The projector is about to take away the local character of the rural hostess' Circles and introduces centralization. It will make it difficult to communicate with local governments, it destroys self-government, which we are so proud of. It is true that a thorough and comprehensive revision of the law on socio-occupational farmers' organisations is necessary, adapting it to the contemporary socio-economic situation of the village in order to ensure that it is possible to act in a realistic way. Changing the rules is necessary, but for those that will enable the wheels to obtain legal personality and give the possibility to obtain grants. The draft Act on Wheels does not contain provisions for which interested parties would apply. Surely one of the reasons for this is urgency, lack of consultation with both NGOs and farmers themselves. This should not be the case in Poland. It is unprecedented that legally and democratically active organisations, especially agricultural associations on the ground, without a pardon, are pulled out of their basic component and subject to the government agency. Modern is in favour of this project, because it is needed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] but it is not the answer to expectations. Plus, Minister, I think right after the election - because it's a sausage - we're going to be working on an amendment to this project...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u602	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u603	...because it doesn't meet expectations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u604	Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u605	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Is this project a revolution? It is a revolution when it comes to its pace of implementation. Yesterday after midnight, today after hours. 22. The pace is amazing. It would be good if, in other matters concerning the countryside, agriculture and the situation of Polish farmers, the pace was maintained. Why is this project, in my opinion, not revolutionary in its records? I talked a little bit about it last night. Firstly, the rural hostels' circles functioned very well in the past years. These were organisations in which women from both the countryside and the city, but also men fulfilled themselves in non-professional activities, cultural, educational activities, and often purely social activities. It was a place and an organization where women could meet, discuss, talk, play. This is the role of rural hostess circles, such is the Polish village, such are the expectations of these environments. Many didn't mind the fact that they functioned within agricultural circles, because it seems better, to me, to function within a socio-professional organization than to be subject to an organization which is a political organisation, because that is the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. After all, we all know exactly how employees are employed there, how management is employed. After all, you have all said, especially that it does not even make sense to hold a competition there, because we all know that positions are politically filled there. So it's absurd to say that the rural housewives' circles were politicized, that there was some pathology there. Neither in the circles of the country hostesses nor in their relationship with the association of circles and agricultural organizations were there any pathologies and no one raised it. The project is also not revolutionary when it comes to association itself. After all, today the circles of rural hostesses function in different formulas, for example in the form of an association. Today you can establish a regular association within three people, not necessarily ten. It could be near a country housewife, it could be called a country housewife. He runs a very simplified accounting system, simpler than the one you're proposing, and no one's minded at all. There is also no revolution in obtaining external resources. After all, the rural hostels' circles were very often supported by local, district, voivodeship, local action groups, by donors who intended to support them, and in this respect It didn't bother you. That's why this project is not a revolution. It is, as I said, revolutionary about the pace, because you want to be able to say something and love this time to rural women before the elections. Besides, this passion for farmers increases directly in proportion to the date of the upcoming elections. It is a pity that such a project had not been presented much earlier, and that a parliamentary project was presented and the State addressed it negatively, after nearly 5 months of keeping it in the so-called. Seym freezer. However, because this project changes things positively - I spoke about it yesterday, because I also see this positive - we as a club will support this project. At the same time, we make some amendments. I'm just gonna go over them briefly. First of all, why does the record so far say that only one wheel of rural hostels can function within one village? I understand when the village has 15 numbers, 15 farms or 20, but there are villages of 600 and 700. Why close the way for the second circle of rural hostesses who would like to function, which could work equally effectively? The second package of amendments concerns the change of dependency, as you said, of the rural hostel circles. We believe that this subordinate should not be at all - it should be autonomous organisations, autonomous associations - and rather the local mayor, the mayor should have specific supervision over these wheels in the form of their registration, conduct of rules, approval of statutes or compliance by these circles of housewives of rural law. What right does an official of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture have to do this? The primary local government organizational unit is the municipality. This is the contact point. There is a elected uncle in direct elections, there are councilmen, often from this village, there is direct contact with the authorities. It is the mayor, the mayor, who should exercise such specific supervision over the circles of rural hostesses, not the president or head of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. I don't see any need for that kind of dependence. And one last thing. If you're talking about central budget support, let's sanction it. This is what the last amendment is about, so let us define exactly how this support is to look every year, so that it is not virtual money which will be returned to the budget at the end of the year in the formula of not spending it, but let it be a rigid statement that near rural hostels will receive such, and not other support each year. I'm asking for your support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] of these amendments today, because for personal reasons, unfortunately tomorrow at the committee meeting I will not be able to be. And don't use the argument at the committee's hearing that it's disrespectful of me. Today I have tabled these amendments. I ask the High House, especially the members of the Committee on Agriculture, to support tomorrow's vote. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u606	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15. Time - 1.5 minutes, and even I'm able to give you 2 minutes. [[It's crazy.]] [[Crazy, crazy.]] Make it two minutes. [[Oh, if two minutes, I'll sign up.]] [[You sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u607	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, this law should have a positive impact on the functioning of rural hostess circles. On the other hand, the reservation raises the pace of legislative work. Why is it so fast? Kukiz, 15, presented a similar bill which supported the circles of the country's hostess, and yet for some reason it did not gain recognition. Why such dynamics at a time when the municipal elections are less than three weeks from now? We can guess a lot of things. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u608	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u609	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The speakers, fellow Members, asked why it was such a rush that it was so quick and sloppy to proceed on this bill. Of course, because the Prime Minister now drives around other villages and small towns and wants to boast about the electoral sausage, which is a resolution about the possibility of a group of rural hostels... [[I'll set it up.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. ...the law on the possibility of the association of rural hostels' circles and the possibility of obtaining legal personality. Ladies and gentlemen! It's possible right now. You don't need a bill to do that. This is a creation that is completely unnecessary. It seems to us that it is also for the government in Warsaw to decide who will give this money to whom it may not, and this is the next step to centralising the next organs and possibilities of action in Poland - in our Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u610	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u611	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is a very bad bill. She's ruining 150 years' worth of work. The village housewives are 150 years old, 150 years old, and it was naturally created. We're gonna do it right now. We're ruining it all. Some stupid record, some stupid bill -- I'm sorry to say that -- not knowing what we're doing, we're subjecting ourselves to wheels. It's a sick solution. Until today, there were no obstacles to the rural housewives' circles functioning, and they function well. What kind of subjection to socio-political organisations? It was created before the First War. Poland has not yet been present, and the rural hostels' circles have already been and functioned. That it came from agricultural circles and came out, that's very good. My question: If there is a woman's organization called Active Rural Women, then what, she won't be able to use it anymore? And if it's near the city housewives - because I know it, because I know it - then what, it won't be able to use it either? Guys, don't create the sick situation you're preparing for the election. The choices will be many more, and we will destroy the achievements, destroy the story and the natural reflexes that have arisen. We're interfering with something that was natural. It's political subjection, political institutions, because today these organizations that you write down are political. And what happened last year was that you imposed penalties on those women who were dealing in small products -- 112, I think, maybe the minister has better information, maybe you've examined it, maybe you're interested in the fact that the finance minister was punishing women -- and today you want to help them and heal them, in turn, by subpoenaing several offices, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What do you think they're doing? Guys, come on. [[That's what I think. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u612	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish... There isn't. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u613	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In this whole discussion, Minister, which I am listening to, it really comes down to one thing: what would happen if this project were brought to the High House after the local elections? Maybe then we'll see real intentions... [[Exactly.]] ...maybe then we'll discuss substantively... [[Everything on the committee was.]] ...we'll get rid of pointless comments. 'Cause it just so happens that the village housewives' circles have survived the stripping, one war, the other war, the communist system. Ladies and gentlemen, to cook bigos and sell it at the festival, you don't need a bill. That's such good news. As for politics, Mr, next to my town in Warmia in Gietrzwald, one of the circles has a KGB shortcut - the Gietrzwałdzki Bab. I ask myself, is it the Gietrzwałdzkie Bab wheel that's politics or a diversion? For me, it's just the activity of women who do something and don't care about us sitting here, politicians. They do because they want to. What's more, they're doing great without money, politicians, self-government. They do it because they know it's for them, for their families. And we are pushing our political hands today and doing everything we can to devastate something so natural and bottom-up. We're wearing party shoes. We want this reality to be what we are? Let's not do this. The fact that the Prime Minister drives and likes the housewife's tinctures, it's super... [[Voice from the room: Cheese likes it.]] ...but let him not harm and destroy, because it may suddenly turn out that women from the circles of country hostess have survived the partitions, two wars and the Polish People's Republic, and they will die in free Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u614	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u615	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Most of these arguments were presented today at the committee meeting and we asked, the committee meeting did indeed last a long time. I just have a question. Minister, it would be all right - that you want to go in the right direction, you know agricultural issues, and that's what you do all your life. Everything's fine. But why, for God's sake, in 24 hours, a bill covering 260 thousand. Circles of country hostels and a few thousand associations... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 26,000. ...without any public consultation... You said someone was involved. Three people out of 26,000. The hostess groups - three people - were at a committee meeting. Most of the MPs weren't there. And we consulted it? What are we talking about? The best proof of that is the writing of the article. Paragraph 24 2: In 2018, the country's rural hostess may receive a special-purpose grant for the implementation of tasks from the State budget. Minister, I don't think that's right. You'll have it in the papers. I understand you want to go with this bill to some barn, have a refill with the Prime Minister. Notabene, please don't give him a refill, because if he's dizzy on white cheese, it's hard to say he's drinking. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And you're saying you have something for them that you're bringing in $3,000, as it's been said. It's political corruption, it's not good will. This is doing the law without the people who are directly covered by it. That's the $26,000. rural hostels' circles and several thousand associations, folk teams will be the recipient of this law, and we will proceed over it from Tuesday at hours. 24 a.m. by Thursday at 4 p.m. 20. It is shameful to create law, without consultation, without social participation, without hearing. At least we'd do one hearing, a subcommittee meeting, so that we could invite the representatives of the various rural hostels' circles, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want them to say something. It's really embarrassing. [[You can't, because it'll be after the election then. It's not about the good law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u616	Thank you very much. If I may add here, as Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, I feel obliged to say that I do not agree with such proceedings either. [[Applause]] Please, Mr Telus. [[A million people will be affected.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u617	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I'm a little surprised, because club appearances show that all clubs support the bill, they say that the bill is needed, that it needs to be changed, that it needs to be normalized, that it needs to be allowed to be allowed to housewives... [[People without people.]] ...so that they can have legal personality so that they can apply for funds, not only for budgetary resources, but also for others, that any wheel of hostess will be able to do so. And that is what the Members say on behalf of the clubs. Then there are questions and almost everyone criticizes... [[That's what we said on behalf of the club.]] ...says that the bill is bad, very bad, corrupting, as the PSL Member said here: spoiling 150 years of tradition. I don't really get it. It's finally a good bill because the club says it's right or wrong because the MP says it's wrong? Minister, I have a question. What was the reason for this, and who caused it? Did you invent this bill, or was it suggested at meetings with the rural hostess's circles and it was an initiative of the rural hostess' circles to create it, or did the Prime Minister invent it himself? Because from what I hear here from the MPs, it's like someone invented it behind a desk. It's unnecessary, and yet someone behind the desk came up with a bill. One thing. [[Yeah, it was.]] Second thing. In connection with this law, if it enters into force - and I hope it will come into force as soon as possible, and I hope that, as Mrs Niedziela said, it will come in on Thursday at hours. 20 - the circles of rural hostesses will be able to reach for funds from the state budget, which has so far not been possible. [[Voice from the room: Political corruption.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u618	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u619	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you for all these comments, although sometimes they are very exciting, but this indicates that this case is not indifferent to anyone. Maybe sometimes it trumps such a bit of grief or jealousy that it could have been done a long time ago, and it wasn't done. The opposition held power for a long time and could also fix all these things, then she would take the honors and put her breast to medals. We try to carry out actions that we consider reasonable. Of course, the history of the village housewives' circles is history Almost 150 years old. The first wheel was formed in a very famous village, in Piaseczno near Gniew, where the first agricultural circle in Poland was created in 1862 and 4 years later it was created near the hostels. It wasn't called the village housewives' Circle at the time. This name appeared in 1877 near Skierniewice. In Poland there were also circles of villagers, i.e. also organizational forms of women in rural areas. Only history plays tricks. This is an excellent, beautiful story from the period before World War I, from the period of partitions, from the period of the Second Republic of Poland, and then the absolute domination of the circles of rural housewives in the post-war period by the communist authorities, unfortunately so as well as all other organizations that functioned at the time. Let me remind you because you may not know that the machinery rings were only activated in 1956 on a thaw wave, but they were still very precisely controlled and infiltrated by the communist authorities. And already the peak of hypocrisy is to talk about the tradition of farming circles and rural housewives' circles, when it is forgotten that the law that regulates their functioning and for a long time it was so until the "Solidarity" of farmers was established dominant position in the agricultural world, is the law of October 1982, from the martial law. Yes, sir, from martial law. [[What, there weren't any farm wheels before?]] It seems that this law did not seem to indicate democratic forms of organisation and their functioning as independent organisations. But it was all there. First of all, we want to ensure that these active women in rural areas, who are already trying to implement not only, as it sometimes seems to people in the city, activities in the field of folk culture and folklore, but also take up a number of innovative and contemporary challenges related to quality of life, related to healthy eating, related to health, sports, recreation, culture widely understood... Although I am also very strongly emphasising the role of folk culture in the countryside. The ideas of the ladies in rural areas are inexhaustible and need to be given the right form and help to organise themselves. The rural hostess' circles not long ago, 30 and 40 years ago, were mainly engaged in providing day-old chicken and feed to farmers and renting dishes for all kinds of family events where more people were needed. It seems that this is an activity. quite archaic and probably no longer run anywhere in Poland. There are, as I mentioned, new expectations, new hopes, new dreams, new activities. And we need to create opportunities that will help rural hostels to meet these new expectations. In this bill we create such opportunities. Because it wasn't like one of you said here that so far it was easy to pass money on to the rural hostels' circles that the local authorities supported them, they all supported local action groups. You could have done that, but only to the part that had the status of an association. And in the case of those wheels which still remained in relation to the national association of farmers, circles and agricultural organisations, without legal personality, obtaining any support was prevented or very difficult. I experienced this many times in my commune, when the treasurer of the commune had a problem, because they wanted to help the Circles of the village hostess, because they are an active form of activity also in the areas where I live, while the formal legal records were such that it could not be transferred. So do we need to fix this? Yeah, it's gotta be fixed. The basis here is legal personality. In a simple, simple way, it seems quite easy, we give these active circles both newly created and existing legal personality. So we're cutting through this dysfunction that's been felt for decades, giving budget support opportunities and not just in 2018. You'll win the election someday, and you'll be much more generous with the country hostels. We are introducing a mechanism that allows budgetary appropriations to be transferred. Rural hostels' circles will be able to carry out a legitimate business, in accordance with the law, from which revenue will be earmarked for statutory purposes and will be exempt from taxes. These are solutions, you can say, historical, because they haven't been there so far. That's why I think it's a step in the right direction. And in Poland, regardless of the period in which the law is created, there will always be a charge that it is sausage or another kind of electoral meat that the time is bad - sometimes too early, sometimes too late, once elections, in the year of the second election, the election marathon begins. What are we waiting for? We make a decision to give good news, good news to women now. The pace of legislative work. If there weren't any jobs, there was a grudge. If it's fast, it's abuse. Mrs Chmiel said that this bill was not necessary for anyone. Let's decide whether these legal solutions are needed, it's a solution to some problem, whether it is - and I quote your statement - a creation that no one needs. Mr Kasprzak said it was a very bad bill, stupid and sick. [[Yes.]] Everyone understands it their way. The reference to the great history of the rings of rural hostels before World War I, and at the same time the lack of understanding of what changes occurred in Poland and Europe at that time, is more or less the same as the claim that the contemporary PSL has anything to do with the 19th century PSL, Mikołajczyk and Witos. [[Applause]] Mr Maciejewski said that no law is needed to sell bigos. If we want to reduce the functioning of rural hostels and women's activity in the countryside to sell bigos... You know, even understanding rhetoric and wanting to shine a joke around here, I have to say that I think it's too humiliating for these women to say that they're just organizing themselves to sell bigos, just like you said. You're appealing not to hurt the country housewives' circles. With what? With a bill that gives them opportunities, we're hurting the village housewives' wheels? [[And the fiscal money...]] The complexity of your thinking is beyond my comprehension. Mrs Niedziela... [[Yes, I am.]] ...talked about grants in 2018. Yes, a significant part of the year is still ahead of us, so these grants will also be this year. [[After the election, too?]] If we hadn't written it down for this year, it would be like this: Yeah, they promise pear willow that something will happen someday, and there won't be any money for it. Well, there you go. The OSR says how much money it's gonna cost this year. [[But write a year in the bill, Minister?]] We have introduced a provision that also this year allows these Circles of funds to be allocated from the state budget to start-up activities to some beginning. [[But to write it down in the bill, Minister?]] I don't understand... I'm trying to understand this thinking, it's about going to the barn and drinking tinctures. I don't know who goes to the barn with who. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[What about the picture?]] On the other hand, I would like to say that for many years I have been involved in the production of tinctures and I would like to ask you to speak more respectfully about Polish tinctureers. They often do masterpieces that are highly praised by many people. [[I have to correct.]] It was also stated that the creation of a law that gives legal basis, gives the opportunity to carry out business, arranges the legal activity of these wheels, encourages, gives a large, open catalogue of activities that can be undertaken by the circles of rural housewives, gives tax relief, allows a very simple way of accounting, because everyone has to account for... If I heard in the club's statement that registration, accounting could discourage activities in the circles of the country hostess, I'm sorry, but... On what legal grounds do grants be settled, economic activity settled? If the obligation to meet the administrative requirements at a minimum level discourages someone, then someone will not assume any activity, because in any other organisation also meeting the requirements at a minimum level will be required, it is often necessary to meet even higher requirements here. The claim that such actions, which are designed to solve the problem and increase activity, are political corruption, aimed at raising funds from various types of programmes dedicated to civil society. God and Lord, what are these arguments? What kind of argument is that? [[Well, that's because it is.]] This is an initiative which results from the expectations of the existing rural hostels' circles, from the expectations of the ladies who did not identify with the movement of the rural hostess' circles subordinate to the National Union of Farmers, Circles and Agricultural Organisations, of which the head has been talking euphemistically about Władysław S. [[PSL.]] Some people are ashamed of this organization and their boss. Today there were representatives of the Federation of Regional Farmers' Unions, Circles and Agricultural Organizations, i.e. those who are trying to save the rest of the farm circles... [[Representative, Minister, one.]] ...who are trying to save the honor of farm circles. They were very positive about it. You've heard it, very positive. [[But they had comments.]] They thought that there were still some minor shortcomings, which in the amendments, also in the amendments tabled by the Law and Justice, we would try to eliminate and correct, while as regards ideas, beings, needs we spoke very, very positively. So this initiative responds - I think - to the vital interests of developing social activity in rural areas, in particular the most valuable, most active part of rural society, which are women in the countryside. And I am very happy that it is we who can present such a bill, and we will adopt such a law. And others wish they had done it when they had the time and opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u620	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kasprzak, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u621	Mr. Marshal! I didn't get an answer from the Minister. How many circles of country housewives were punished just for selling this bigos and showing activity? In rural women, you don't have to create activity, they have it. I didn't get that answer. That's once. And secondly, Minister, the current PSL has more to do with Mikołajczykowski than today's PiS with [[♪ The bell ♪]] and with ideas of solidarity.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u622	Mrs Niedziela, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u623	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You misunderstood. I have spoken with full respect - knowing that you are a producer of tinctures - about the fact that you may have a refill for the Prime Minister. And the photos and conferences - I wasn't in the barn, but the Minister and the Prime Minister had a conference in the barn, which is why I quoted this example. And I'm still going to argue that in a law that's supposed to apply, which is a legal act, it doesn't necessarily have to be stated that this year money is available, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm hoping someone doesn't believe you. Trust is built in a different way.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u624	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u625	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position towards the government draft law on the circles of rural hostess after the work on this project in committee. By introducing these regulations, the rural hostel circles will be able to register their activities in a simplified manner in the National Register of Rural Hostels kept by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which will give them legal personality. One of the oldest existing social organisations will thus be able to raise funds to finance their own activities. This is a big, positive change, whose support in my opinion should not raise any doubts. It is possible to discuss detailed solutions to this law so that it is 100% to reflect the expectations of the environment concerned and so that the KGW can fully benefit from these solutions, but whether these regulations are needed or expected support should be obvious. Rural hostels' circles have existed for more than 150 years, and this interest and help have been in their possession for a long time. Today, the main source of income for these organisations is the membership contributions. This is extremely restrictive given the amount of work they contribute to the social development of their villages, the cultivation of local traditions and culture, and often in support of the municipality in carrying out its tasks. Thanks to this project, the rural hostel circles will no longer be dependent on other organisations, such as agricultural rings, government administration or local government units. They'll get autonomy. I am also convinced that these solutions will encourage and contribute to the unity and integration of the rural community in joint action for themselves. Well, thank you. the current government for preparing this project. Of course, near Free and Solidarni fully supports him.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u626	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 23 hours 22 min 27]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 34 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants (print No 2857). Please address the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Simon Giżyński, and present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u627	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants is a continuation of what worked out, but in a new form, with a view to a certain economic breakthrough, I think that also cultural, related to all the consequences that result from the dissemination of this form of management. There are two fundamental blocks of change that concern, first, tax issues. In the case of the possibility of tax-free sales processed in a way other than industrial, i.e. in domestic conditions, our own farm, plant and animal products, we raise the limit without tax from 20 to 40 thousand. £ per year. When this amount is exceeded, a low turnover tax of 2% will apply. Other provisions, which, of course, work completely complementaryly here, already apply to the scope of food law, since they provide, for example, that any processor who receives the income mentioned here will be entitled to benefit from tax exemptions or tax reliefs, provided that he uses at least 50% of his own raw material and does not employ employees. It is quite clear that at this point we are creating and very strengthening family farms, this way of management, this way of functioning of the rural family. Thanks to the solutions introduced by this law, in the amendment, tax facilitation will also be possible for those producers who sell their products via the Internet, which has not yet been possible. This is a response to expectations, and it is certainly an expression of development intuition, which is obvious, confirmed by the opinion and expectations of this solution. Another aspect of the case, also reported, also expected, concerns the extension of the catalogue of places to which processed food is made under household conditions. Here is a whole catalogue of recipients such as local restaurants, canteens, agrotourism farms, shops, other places with similar similar characteristics. Let's move on. This activity will only be subject to notification, registration by the Veterinary Inspection or the State Sanitary Inspection, depending on the nature, type of production, without the need for approval. Of course, this does not mean a disappearance or some indulgence in control. All the existing regulations, practices are here to ensure that it is healthy and high-quality food. I will sum up no more intentions, but the political will enshrined in the various paragraphs, the articles of this law. It is quite clear that the result will be high quality of the food offered, the prices obtained will certainly prefer the producer because of the fact that it is clearly shortened or strengthened shortcut: from producer to consumer, with a very important intermediary in the form of consumers who stand right next to the consumer, but only stimulate sales opportunities. This is an individual sales after that, completely intermediated, but at the same time with a full guarantee of collection and consumption. I think that in this bill - as well as in others, which there is a certain discharge, I think that very expected by farmers and adopted with disbelief by malcontents - which combines, like its predecessors over the last few months, praxeology and common sense meet. When we tried today a few hours earlier on the bill on animal products and food safety and nutrition, one of the messengers spoke about the provisions of that law, that they were obvious. I took this as a great compliment, and I thanked you very much for such an assessment, that these very provisions of the Act from a few hours ago are obvious. I hope, I am sure, that the proposals that we are now presenting to you in this law are equally obvious. Nothing can please us more and we wish Minister Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski at the head, so that all changes in Polish agriculture will have the seal of obviousness and common sense. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u628	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u629	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! With this bill, I'll start with history. In previous terms, as Members of the opposition, we have called for direct trade. At the time, the ruling coalition told us that such a law could not be introduced because the European Union forbids it. I remember how much about it. We regretted that the thing that is very important to us is direct sales that operate in Europe, Austria, other countries... At the time, the coalition government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party explained that such a law cannot be introduced in Poland. We can sell unprocessed products directly, e.g. raspberries, but already processed, e.g. Raspberry juice, not anymore. When we won the election, we immediately prepared a law that allows direct sales of products not only unprocessed but also processed. Why are we doing this? We're doing this to cut the road from field to table. This is for the benefit of farmers. I've set this living example a few times before. The potato in the orphanage costs 20 gr at the farmer's farm, and in the supermarket the same potato costs 2,20 and 2,40 PLN. So who makes money on this potato? Is it the farmer who has to put in fuel, work, his field, plant protection products, or the intermediary who will reload it and bring it to the supermarket? Of course it's the middleman. It's gotta stop. It is necessary to make such regulations in order to resist such pathologies. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, among others. there is this package of laws that the government presents in recent days, earlier meetings and today. This is the set package, the plan for the village, which will shorten this way from the field to the table. And among others. There's this bill. A law that allows every farmer to sell directly to 40 000. No tax at all, and more than 40,000. with a low tax rate of 2%. It's in the farmer's interest. The farmer will be able to sell the goods directly, he will be able to make more money on these products. But, ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that this is also for the benefit of consumers, because the consumer will buy healthy, good, certain food and will know who it is from. It will not be a product of often questionable quality from the supermarket. That is why it is one of the laws that farmers are waiting for. Like I said, we're expanding this bill's ability to sell to 40,000. tax-free. But here's the second thing, innovative again, step forward again, step forward. The point is that the farmer will be able to take his products, those processed and unprocessed, to the restaurant, to the cafeteria, but also to the shops. This will allow for the introduction of one intermediary, but an intermediary who has direct contact with the farmer. We're doing this so the consumer who buys this stuff knows who he buys it from. There is a great concern that maybe this food will not be well controlled, it will not be of good quality. If it turns out that there will be no good quality, next time the consumer will not buy from this farmer, because he will know that he bought from Iksinski, from the farmer concerned. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club obviously supports this law, supports all the laws that shorten this path from the field to the table, which cause us to strengthen the Polish farmer who helps the Polish farmer. This is the law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u630	Thank you. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u631	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr President, you have worked very hard, but you will not interfere with reality. 3 hours ago, we were working on a bill that amends the Food Safety Act, and at the moment we are working more than 3 hours on a bill that also changes this amended law. Even the Minister himself made a mistake, because it was not in this bill that we changed the possibility of reporting, not agreeing, but in that, a few hours ago. I don't know why it's done. I think it's to show you what you've already said: that you've gone to the country and that there's a whole legislative offensive. These are still small things, divided into little notes, so you can say there's a lot of that. Of course, dishonesty is really dishonest, sir. We worked together on the agricultural committee, together with Minister Jurgel, we worked on the direct sales commission. The milestone was... I'll remind you because you're still working on this bill, a law that allows farmers to sell processed goods and not be subject to all the rigors of business. It was the Civic Platform that introduced this law in 2015. You've changed it. First of all, you've lowered the threshold, and now we're adding a wider sales opportunity. And that is not the case, sir, there is no intermediary in this law, but the definition of the final consumer is changing. In my opinion, as well as in the previous opinion of Minister Jurgiel, who received such an opinion, this requires notification, or at least a request from the European Union. If you don't do it... I am very pleased that we are going in this direction, as much as possible, but please don't lie to reality. Work was going on all the time. This is the next little step on the road to increasing farmers' ability to reach their products. But in order for it to be, as you say, so significant, I wouldn't say, especially since the OSRs you gave me show that it's less than 5,000. Farms, because there's so little interest. And I will tell you why there is so little interest. It's not just about the tax issue, because she was already there. The problem is that, apart from what you have changed, there are still no good practices, which is not really known what will be required in the kitchens and what will be required in the factories. Here's the clou of why farmers won't volunteer. So I ask my question: Couldn't you do it in one print, or will we have to do it in two separate prints? That doesn't change the fact, of course, but it's a little cheating. Second thing: Has the Minister prepared what he was talking about, i.e. the good practices developed by producers by the Ministry and submitted to the State Sanitary Inspection and Veterinary Inspection? This was supposed to be done as much as possible. We talked about this being a really important step that will allow us to speed up this interest. And thirdly, it's a quick process again, 24 hours again, no consultation, only with the OSRs. Mr. Speaker! I know you want to boast about the country before the election that you did it, but we don't have to run like this, believe me. If you're accusing me that for the last four years, because I've been 4, not 8, I haven't done anything, then I'm asking, on the basis of what bill you're working on, first of all, and secondly, why the previous Minister hasn't submitted this project for three years, although he was. [[We did it.]] It's been three years, sir. You say it's groundbreaking, and it's not three years old, really. So just so you remember what happened, first of all, and second of all, don't go like this because there's a little bit of a commotion here, too. I have a question, of course I will ask the Minister in a series of questions. Of course, the Civic Platform Club will vote in favour because it has always voted in favour of all laws, along with the PiS, which were adopted for the benefit of farmers and which were honest records that serve agriculture and the countryside. On the other hand, I cannot agree that, as in the case of the previous law, we should continue to proceed on everything without consultation, without opinion, without any social opinions that should be attached to any government printing, because government printing requires the public to know what the government is preparing for it, and that is still not in either printing or printing, on which it was just a moment ago. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We've been proceding, that is, in the print on the circles of the country housewives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u632	Thank you. Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u633	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants. The objective is clearly set out in its title, but it must be pointed out that these facilitations are to be implemented in two areas. Firstly, in the field of taxation, and secondly, in the area of food law. The first issue, namely the tax area, concerns the creation of tax incentives in order to lead to a situation where the number of agricultural producers receiving additional income from domestic processing of agricultural products is increasing. As regards the aspect of food law, it is proposed to allow the disposal of food produced in the framework of agricultural retail trade in favour of retail establishments located in a limited area for the final consumer, including shops, restaurants, cafés and other establishments with similar characteristics. Making it easier for farmers to sell food directly to farmers is a matter that Kukiz has been working for since the beginning of the term of office15. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u634	Excuse me, sir, for a moment. Mrs Niedziela and Mr Telus invite you to join the kuluars.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u635	We have repeatedly called for the sale of food produced by farmers directly to restaurants, cafés or shops. It is not necessary to convince anyone that Polish farmers produce tasty and above all healthy products. Importantly, these products do not have preservatives or artificial flavor enhancers. We are seeing an increasing trend of Poles' search for healthy and ecological products on the market. Conservative products do not meet these expectations. There is an increase in nutrition awareness and it is no surprise that Poles reach for proven products and such products are produced by farmers by traditional methods. If products coming directly from a farmer are of such great interest to society, why not completely free up this sphere of trade? The bill is a step in the right direction, but there is still a lot of work to be done to strengthen the position of the Polish farmer and to ensure that consumers have unfettered access to the highest quality goods. The kind of goods we buy on Koszalin soil. It is on a natural manure, it is all healthy, because Polish food from Polish farmers is the best, ecological and can be kept in home conditions for a long time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u636	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. If any of you would like to join us again, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - one and a half minutes. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u637	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A similar bill was presented by the Kukiz club15. Our parliamentary club has long been seeking the release of direct sales of products by farmers. This bill is a step in the right direction, but is there any further action planned in this area? When will farmers be able to sell their products without unnecessary legal procedures, fully legal? Are there plans? Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, did you close the list or not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u638	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u639	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question concerns tax exemptions. The justification for this project states that the tax exemption will be subject to the processing of own products. After crossing the 40 grand threshold. a turnover tax of 2% will be applied. My question is whether MOL, or locally limited local activity, will also be subject to this exemption. If we're doing business, for example. We have pig breeding, it's part of those pigs, if we have a slaughterhouse and a factory, we process and sell. Can we account for this type of activity and thus move on to a turnover tax of 2%? Does this tax exemption also apply to MOL?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u640	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u641	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law is indeed expected by farmers. [[Amendment of the bill.]] It increases the economic capacity of the farm. But it's not a new law. The practice of selling directly from the farm was long ago applied, only consumer requirements have changed. There were completely different Western packages, Western countries entered our market, different networks. It guided the Poles. And that's where the dilemma came from. Farmers will have to work hard to gain consumer confidence with this opportunity. This is not yet Austria, this is not Switzerland, where there are institutions with different kinds of certificates, which have for many years earned the confidence of consumers, where there are different networks of organic food, and not only organic, sold directly from farms. We have a lot to do. In this regard, the Platform Club, as my colleague Dorota Sunday said, will vote in favour, but this requires many [[♪ The bell ♪]] corrections and high patience, as well as the broad education of our farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u642	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u643	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! This is undoubtedly a step forward, an important step forward, to shorten this path from field to table. However, I have a question because it is important whether the Ministry prepares a journal of good practice. The Member also spoke about this. It is very important that farmers can see this journal so that they know what conditions must be met in their own kitchen, what must be done. Maybe it's even about showing the way, where such a farmer has to register. We have many such questions as Members. How is a farmer supposed to register his direct sales activity? That's one thing. Second thing, Minister. From the very beginning, when we started serving Poland as a government, we are going in this direction to introduce direct sales, but we have to admit, Minister, and I think you will also admit that farmers are allowed to do so. However, we do not have enough farmers, yet this direct sale is not popular enough. What the Ministry - what we as MEPs, but also the Ministry - can do, what ideas it has to convince us to do, more advertise, that this idea of direct sales should come into force more widely, because it is really, I think, a big help for the Polish farmer, but also an opportunity for the Polish farmer. We were in Austria, we saw those practices. They are much more advanced than in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u644	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Simon Giżyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u645	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will start by answering questions because the discussion of representatives of clubs concerned several motives and these issues should be summarised at the end of the speech. I will answer Mrs Niedziela's question. MOL is an economic activity and is subject to all these tax characteristics that are adequate and appropriate for economic activity. I think that such a good differentiation is the separation of MOL from the original construction, from what we present and propose here. Because there is a clearly defined concept of strengthening the family farm, the household, the rural farm in these parameters, which in itself creates not only economic quality, but I think to a large extent... In some statements, the state They also emphasized this, and this is very consistent with our intentions and this concerns the most important ones, that it is cultural quality and the importance of national solidarity and, above all, identity. The question of Mr Telus - the guidelines on good practice are hanging, you can say, always on the sides of the ministry. They're hanging now. I think that in any discussion - whether in a formal sense close to this law, or in any environment of other discussions during the committee's deliberations - we are still circling this topic. There is no meeting in agricultural environments where there would be no such ideas, they would not be edited, raised. I think it is, too. After all, everyone has been involved in this for many years, and many here are your Members who have had such an opportunity. And it is said, and I absolutely agree with this, when it comes to these solutions, that it is enough to give Poles some opportunities, unlock barriers, and immediately there will be some ideas, solutions that will be revolutionary or create some quality novelties, according to the rules of freedom, ingenuity, cleverness. I'm calm that's gonna happen. Because here this change certainly has a very important qualitative character and therefore there will certainly be such repercussions as I have already mentioned, believing that it will be a breakthrough - cultural or identityal in the sense that it is founded on an economic basis. Mr Romecki, Kukiz.15 - I think that the consequence of this law, its actions, the positive effects of what it will do in Polish agriculture will be the fulfilment of all the expectations of the Member that you have presented to us. Two motives were very clear in the club discussion. I'm thinking about determining that this bill, the one from a few hours ago, it was, it's little steps. I hope that's how we talk about every bill we're working on. [[You should have connected, Minister, not...]] Because this set of little steps at the Sejm, a dozen or so during the quarter - it's really already marching, isn't it? And this march can be heard. He's banging. I think he's also dating, the truth, the humming -- once kind, once kind, once unkind, because he's involved in some sort of calculation. But we're all going in the same direction. We will all benefit from the benefits of these solutions. The last remark, which here does not have the character of any malice or perception of something as an indication of a significant lack - we often meet here, e.g. in the case of these two laws today, with the allegation that they were not consulted. It is that you are talking about certain procedures for formal consultations. These laws, the one we're looking at earlier and the one we're looking at now, meet the expectations of farmers, are in line with their wishes, in line with their expectations. They are the result of informal consultations conducted on the occasion of discussing one or another law, only permanent consultations, i.e. the state of the legislator's awareness, which concerns absolute compliance with what farmers expect, what society expects in relation to specific solutions. They are not the result of such complacency or awareness arising from the intuition or intuition that we do not have, but from the full awareness of what farmers expect. And this regard for formal consultations, for the public consultation, as it is called, is unnecessary here because it does not represent any added value or necessary to do something quickly, decisively and in the interests of absolute expectations and in line with the expectations of society. After all, our gold medalists from Turin won gold without any public consultation, didn't they? They didn't ask sports... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] ...members of the Polish Olympic Committee... [[Minister, a little serious.]] ...and they gave us all great joy, and it certainly was in line with our expectations and needs. So here's the situation of toutes proportions, right? I agree. But it's basically, like you said... I don't think it insults either the honourable Member who is famous for his sense of humor or the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, can I correct you?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u646	Thank you. Mrs Niedziela, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u647	Minister! On p. 2 justifications we are talking about differences between existing legal projects and introduced ones. And there's that sentence I asked about. This means that the proposed amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act are aimed at tax exemption. This means that WW. For example, tax solutions can be used by retail and marginal, local and limited entities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 20: exemption from 2% taxation. They may apply for it. And I'm gonna finish up so soon. Art. 2 in this Act amends the Food Safety Act in Article. 3. 3. And the previous one changed into an article. 63. 2. So that we amend the same bill twice at the same meeting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u648	You're welcome, Minister. [[Here's the...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u649	Both laws differ in substance, and this is not in doubt here. Otherwise, we'd be here... [[It wasn't different, but...]] Different. On the other hand, what you asked at the very beginning of your last statement concerns farmers. If this MOL business activity concerns farmers, this is a tax exemption application. [[But if they're on a normal tax right now, they're gonna apply for a lump sum?]] It's a possibility. This applies to farmers. [[So most of them are gonna be running away from taxes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u650	Okay, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you continue the discussion at the committee meeting. [[Okay.]] Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Simon Giżyński: It is the obvious force of this law, truth or possibility. Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u651	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is intended to create tax incentives for agricultural producers with additional income from the processing of domestic agricultural products. Allows inter alia. the use of a 2% flat-rate tax on recorded revenues from the sale of certain plant and animal products, processed in a non-industrial way, and increases the amount of income exempt from PIT to 40 000. zł. On the basis of which an amount of 40,000 was established. Evil? Shouldn't such legislation go a step further and set the amount of the exemption at 60,000. Evil? How will small producers in practice have to record revenues from the sale of certain plant and animal products in order to benefit from 2% flat-rate taxation?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u652	The government draft law amending certain laws to facilitate the sale of food by farmers to shops and restaurants is another project in the package of today's agricultural laws, which aim to facilitate the sale of the food they produce to farmers. Farmers had to wait until the Law and Justice election campaign to look forward to these changes. Art. 1 project introduces the possibility of hiring an employee at trade fairs, festivals and exhibitions, allowing for rational use of the possibility of such sales, for example through the possibility of participating in events taking place at the same time, as well as the combination of sales of products from more than one farmer. Importantly, the requirement setting out the place of sale has been removed, which will result in farmers using new forms of sales, such as online sales and deliveries directly to their homes. The amount of income exempt from personal income tax was also increased from 20 000. Up to 40,000. zł. This change is not significant as the tax was not often a significant barrier to the development of sales in the context of agricultural retail trade. The tax paid was usually a reliable statement of income when applying for credit. It was possible to benefit from a flat-rate tax of 2% on recorded revenues from the sale of certain plant and animal products processed in a non-industrial manner. The Food Safety and Nutrition Act of 25 August 2006 proposes changes which will allow the farmer to produce and sell food not only directly to the consumer but also to retail establishments intended for the final consumer, namely commercial and catering establishments. Also art. 44a has been modified so that it is possible for the farmer to dispose of food to retail establishments if those establishments are located in the voivodship in which the production of that food takes place. This introduces a territorial restriction, which is justified because agricultural retail trade is supposed to be a form of local sales. The proposed changes are positive and, we hope, will make an essential contribution to the development of processing on agricultural holdings and processing in general. We also want simplified agricultural retail trade to be the first step towards the creation of larger plants on a general basis and to allow us to gain experience and to learn about the market. The content of the provisions is expected by farmers and will allow the development of processing on agricultural holdings, so the Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u653	There is a large number of farmers who are interested in the so-called. small processing on their farms. This creates opportunities to generate additional income and improve the economic situation of farmers. This project creates legal incentives, including tax incentives, for those wishing to undertake such manufacturing. It also offers the possibility of selling homemade food to shops, cafés or restaurants. Our club supports all initiatives aimed at improving the very difficult situation of Polish farms today. This is what we will do in the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u654	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft government bill in print No 2857 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 3 October this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. [[You're flying fast.]] [[Voice from the room: Late.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u655	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, TV news journalists revealed facts about the so-called. The Radom system. The case concerns doubts when designing the Radom ring road in the footsteps of the S12 road. Former President Radoma involved in this project today is a member of the PiS. In the Sejm, he heads the task force. construction of the S12 route, which deals with e.g. Radom's bypass project, which suddenly changed its course. The road in many places now looks like someone specifically wanted it to run on specific terrain. According to the TV broadcast on Saturday, local government officials and Members of the PiS and the local construction tycoon bought land on which they could earn compensation from the state after buying the land. After all, in the project, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, unexpectedly at the end of 2017, there was a different option than the one previously consulted, in which the S12 runs through the built-up areas, intersecting the surrounding villages and the commune, destroying many people's farms. In the initial plans, the road ran through wasteland, and it did not require demolition of homes and expropriation of people. TV journalists have established that local self-government officials and local government officials are the owners of the new S12 route. tycoon of the construction industry. One interested is the head of the city council, managing the local structures of the PiS. For the last few years, he's concentrated 21 plots of land he's been buying into a partnership with the tycoon's son. On the new route they also have their parcels of former Member of the PiS, former Councillor of this party and sister of another Member of the PiS again. Ladies and gentlemen! Rate this on your own, for I lack the words for such arrogance towards other people, against those whom they now want to destroy houses, against residents who have spent many years taking care of these farms all their lives. I have no words for this arrogance and such a great sense of impunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u656	Thank you. Mr Jacek Wilk, not associated Member, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u657	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of my statement is to present to the public the way in which the government treats Members, in particular how it deals with the interpellations and parliamentary enquiries to which it should take full seriousness and give precise answers to them, which is clear from the relevant legal provisions, in particular the provisions on the implementation of the mandate of the Member. Let this be illustrated by my interpellation of 5 July 2018 on the famous issue of negotiating an amendment to the IPN Act, which was carried out at a super-fast pace on 27 June this year. At the same time, how it was informed and how it penetrated the public opinion, it was the subject of negotiations, secret negotiations - also at the Mossad headquarters - between representatives of the Polish state and those who were not known by the name of the representatives of the State of Israel, while, as even the representatives of the Party of Law and Justice themselves mentioned, it was two parliamentarians. At the same time, as Israeli journalist Barak Ravid pointed out, it was about MEPs Richard Legutka and Tomasz Poręba, at least as the journalist pointed out, as his sources indicated. Therefore, I submitted a question to the Foreign Minister, which contained a few simple questions, as simplified as possible, so that they were not subject to any interpretation or manipulation. [[I just wanted to say good night.]] They concerned whether these deputies really were those representatives or whether they had the right authority to what the content was. power of attorney, if any. A few simple questions of this type, exactly five. Ladies and gentlemen! I received a reply from the Ministry, signed by Mr Bartosz Cichocki, undersecretary of state, which is worth reading to illustrate the problem I am talking about: In connection with the interpellation no. such and such Mr Jack Wilk on the media reports on the Polish negotiators on the content of the amendment of the IPN Act, in response to five questions of the Member, I kindly inform you that the joint declaration of the Prime Ministers of the Republic of Poland and the State of Israel signed on 27 June 2018 is not an international agreement within the meaning of the Act of such and such international agreements or a government document within the meaning of the resolution and such Council of Ministers, therefore the formal procedure and requirements laid down by these legal acts, which the terminology in their questions appears to be referred to by the Member. The declaration is a kind of memorandum of understanding with very general records, it has a strict political and symbolic meaning, without changing in any way the legal order of both countries. At the same time, I kindly inform you that the Act of 27 June 2018 on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes Against the Nationals of Poland was not the subject of negotiations. Its adoption in this form was a sovereign decision of the constitutional legislative authority. This is how interpellations and parliamentary inquiries are treated. Undersecretary of State either - I apologize for the words - fucking stupid, or he considers Members to be idiots and does not answer the simplest questions. His answer is in clear contradiction with what was said by the representatives of the Law and Justice themselves, who indicated that this amendment was the subject of negotiations, and in fact it was in agreement with a foreign country. The case is appalling, because we have already faced a very rare situation in which changes in law in Poland are made under the influence of foreign factors, other countries, and this is still in secret at the headquarters of foreign interviews. Ladies and gentlemen! If this is the case with questions and parliamentary interpelations, it means that the government does not really care about legislative power. At this point, I would like to state that in the future this matter will certainly be resolved and certainly not left like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-10-03-sejm-69-2.u658	That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 4 October 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. Have a good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 13]]
