ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to appoint Mr Kinga Gajewska, Mr Wojciech Król, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz and Mr Krzysztof Truskolas as the secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Wojciech Król and Adam Andruszkiewicz will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Members Wojciech Król and Krzysztof Truskolaski. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 9.30 a.m., - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 11, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 11, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 11, - Local Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 11, - Extraordinary for deregulation - at hours. 11, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - Social and Family Policy together with the Health Commission - at 3 p.m. 12, - Foreign Affairs - at 3 p.m. 12, - Public Finance together with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 13, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 14, - Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 14, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - to Energy and Treasury - at 3 p.m. 15, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 15, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 16, - Economy and Development - at 3 p.m. 16, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 16, - National Defense at 3 p.m. 16, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 17, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - at 3 p.m. 19. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Multiple sclerosis - at 3 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Road Transport - at 3 p.m. 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Health Organization - at 3 p.m. 15 and 4:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u3	Thank you very much, sir. The competent committees have submitted reports on government draft laws: - amending the Law on medicinal activities and certain other laws, - amending the National Tax Administration Act and certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints 2983 and 2977, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items of the agenda listened to five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the government draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws (prints No. 2905 and 2977). I ask Mr Luke Schreiber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and some other laws, print no. 2905 and 2977. After the first reading, which took place in the plenary room on 23 October, a meeting of the Committee on Public Finance took place. 6 November this year While working on the government draft law, the Public Finance Commission adopted and proposed four amendments. In addition to proposing legislative amendments, we had a discussion and work on editorial changes. The Committee on Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u5	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another important government project - a project aimed at improving the situation with regard to public finances, but above all the aim of the proposed change, the amendment is to combat the shadow economy and tax fraud through a more efficient operation of the National Tax Administration, to provide greater access to the information necessary for carrying out its statutory tasks and to perform more effective customs and treasury controls. This project, as we saw during the work of the Committee on Public Finance, is a well-prepared project, is a thought-out project and is a project that deserves the support of the High House. That's it. However, the project, around which I have the impression, has a certain amount of agreement and acceptance. I would also like to note with satisfaction at this point the fact that this project is not aimed at, is not going in this direction to create additional problems for entrepreneurs, but, on the contrary, to make the tax administration more friendly to them. High Izbo! This bill, which we have already been debating in the plenary room, involves introducing a number of solutions, among others. may allow the National Tax Administration to perform analytical activities to banks and other financial institutions with a request to provide the account holder's data used to operate in the grey area. The project is therefore aimed at hitting this gray zone, additionally thanks to these solutions it can ensure the sealing of the finances - and that is, it seems, the purpose under which we should all sign in this room. What is extremely important and what has also appeared during the work of the Committee on Public Finance, is to clarify and supplement the provisions on customs control, including ownership control and the production and marketing of gambling machines. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to ensure that the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill in the further work of the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u7	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Civic Platform changed tax and tax administration for 8 years. As a rule of law, we did it through evolution, not revolution, without chaos, without throwing experienced, professional officials and inspectors out on the street. Our goal was to separate two completely different tasks: collecting taxes from honest taxpayers and prosecuting fraudsters. These are two completely different tasks, two different groups, so different tools, different instruments have to be used for them. The measure that allowed the tax system to be sealed in general was the introduction of a central register of taxpayers. Thanks to this, the PiS can boast today that Kowalski sends PIT online, and the fiscal calculates the tax due for it. This is also why the PiS can boast of sealing today, because it received an instrument from us in the form of a single control file. Another action and another very important instrument sealing the tax system was to be the central invoice register. It's been three years, and PiS didn't do it, although that's why he set up a special company: Critical applications. The company turned out to be just a synecur for relatives and acquaintances of a rabbit or rather a finance minister. Several boards have changed, several presidents, and we have spent several million dollars of taxpayers' money on this, and the result of the work is great nothing. In the meantime, PiS has once again put all taxpayers in one bag and hinders the lives of not cheaters - they are more or less in a comparable condition, as they have been in our times, as is shown by the still significant VAT gap - as estimated by the VAT gap - but to all taxpayers. You're doing the same thing again in this bill. Once again, you are restricting the rights of the citizen as a taxpayer. In the meantime, you have introduced the chaos in the IRS, which you have called the National Tax Administration, to the extent that the effectiveness of this service has decreased, as can be seen in the answers to our interpelations. In this bill, in this amendment... Besides, it's just the fact that you're even updating the bill that Minister Banas said you've been working on for 10 years. She was perfect and ready 10 years ago, and then you worked on her for six months, and then you introduced her in order to update her every once in a while. It can't be fixed anyway. However, in this bill you take the constitutional right of the taxpayer to court. When the taxpayer corrects the declaration, you take away his right to claim his rights in court. What if the clerk was wrong after all? After all, when you were in opposition, you kept screaming that officials had to take responsibility for their bad decisions. By this provision in the Act, you establish a system in which an official can do anything, while the taxpayer will prefer to pay the tax out of fear, although it may prove to be an undue tax, and will no longer have any right to get it back. Therefore, the Civic Platform does not propose any amendments to this amendment. She just can't be corrected. We're gonna vote against this bad bill. From the beginning we have argued that the whole idea of National Tax Administration, these regulations, is absolutely wrong. I'll repeat what I said at first reading. You are introducing absolutely manual control of control and tax proceedings, which is to limit the independence of the tax authority, such as the head of the tax office or the tax and treasury office. It's just unacceptable. You're making out of a fiscus what Ziobro did to the D.A.'s office: a party agenda controlled by the Minister of Finance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u9	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I present my position on the government draft law amending the Act on National Tax Administration and other laws. I do not know how much hypocrisy and deception it takes for the same government to present a bill on the introduction of simplifications into tax and economic law at one meeting of the Sejm and at the same time to submit a law on the National Tax Administration. [[Applause]] This is indeed a very interesting science, coming from the leading ideologist of PiS, President of Kurski, who said that the dark people would buy everything. But I am sure that the Polish entrepreneur will not buy this huge sham you are presenting at today's meeting of the Sejm. Because what is in the Tax and Economic Simplification Act? Well, we have provisions that require tax authorities to make a call less cumbersome for entrepreneurs. And this is all the simplifications in the tax law introduced by this law. On the other hand, in this submission, you fund an entrepreneur's provision whereby any official can initiate a review procedure on the basis of a card without submitting a control authority. And in what situations? In situations where he believes that tax legislation is incorrect, i.e. in any situation. In any particular situation, it will be possible to enter the taxpayer, initiate proceedings without authorisation to control. However, it will also be possible to initiate this procedure without the participation of both the entrepreneur and the person represented by the trader. This is certainly an action that does not favour the development of Polish entrepreneurship. I don't really blame the head of the National Tax Administration for introducing such laws. But I am very surprised both Minister Czerwińska, Minister of Finance and Prime Minister that they allow this kind of action. This is nothing more than the introduction into the tax regulations of a self-involved official, self-involved, unfettered, who will be used against the taxpayer. This is another provision that taunts all principles, including constitutional principles, but in this Chamber we have already become accustomed to the fact that for the PiS state the constitution does not matter at all. You are introducing in this law the possibility to inspect the bank accounts of the trader, not as a result of the ongoing review procedure, but as a result of analytical activities. So, apart from any in-house control, any tax authority will be able to access bank accounts, so banking secrecy in Poland becomes simply illusory, practically impossible. In addition, you also extend the scope of prosecutions of crimes committed by employees and officers of the KAS, thereby doubling the other powers of the other services as well. As it has already been said, the Modern Club will also make no amendments, because this bill is nothing more than legislative shit that can only be thrown into the basket. And it is not so, Mr Schreiber, that this law serves to seal tax law and to fight criminals effectively. This law is only part of the fight against Polish entrepreneurs and will certainly have the opposite effect from what you are talking about here. For official self-will, tax self-control has never translated into an increase in tax revenue, but merely [[♪ The bell ♪]] to chaos in the country and reduce the willingness of entrepreneurs to invest. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u11	Thank you very much, sir. None of the ladies and gentlemen of the House have submitted a question. Does anyone want to ask that question? If not, then the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Marian Banaś, would like to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High, Dear Izbo! I would first of all like to address Mrs Leszczyna and Mr Pampuch. I am very sorry that your Members are resorting to ordinary propaganda and generalizations, but do not focus on specifics, and numbers and concretes speak for themselves. Well, I would just like to remind you what the situation has been like for eight years in the state of government. Now, as far as the tax gap you are talking about is that it has somehow been sealed by you and you have created tools that were going to improve this situation, it is clear that from 2008 to 2015 from 9% It increased to 24.5%. The state budget lost over PLN 262 billion for this, and this is not only our data, but also data from international organisations and the Supreme Audit Chamber. What's going on... You, too, have said that you have created the tools that we have used, now that you have been in the government for the last three years. Well, that's not true, the single control file didn't work at all, it was created by us. You're talking about the central invoice register that he's not here. Not only is there a central invoice register in the form of a single control file, because there is registration of all sales and purchase invoices, but there is also an analyzer. It was this analyzer that caused us to reduce this gap from 24% in less than 2 years to 14%. , and the state budget Only in 2017, it gained PLN 42.5 billion. As far as control is concerned, you also claim that today's National Tax Administration is a tool that makes life difficult for honest entrepreneurs. It's the other way around. We do everything we can to save honest entrepreneurs, to be friendly and to help them, and to fight the grey zone. It is what we are doing today that we are also going to fight against the grey zone and against dishonest entrepreneurs, in short, criminals. It cannot be that, under the cloak of promoting supposedly human rights, business rights can be allowed to be such that we do not have healthy competition in the market and criminals feel like fish in water. That is what we are fighting and the results I am talking about speak for themselves, including this year, in 2018. I would like to say to the High House that only from January to September the VAT increase, the remaining taxes amounted to PLN 17.5 billion, the VAT alone - 5.5 billion billion, excise duty - 2,4 billions. I don't get all vague about how you do it when you're doing propaganda. It's about concrete, it's about numbers. Numbers don't lie. These are the ones that show that these amendments we are making are needed as much as possible, because they will serve an even more effective fight against the shadow economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Your Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u13	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Izabela Leszczyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Well, you didn't understand what I said, because I don't believe that you didn't distinguish between these two tools: the central invoice register and the single control file, which I will remind you, however, introduced the Civic Platform Act in the previous term. On the other hand, the central invoice register differs from the JPK, that in real time allows to observe economic events and transactions. And you didn't. The JPK lets you do it, but it's a month late. And one more thing. The estimate of the gap you are referring to is based on error, but 20 seconds is not enough to explain it. I'm sure we'll do it very precisely before the committee of inquiry. And one more thing. Higher VAT revenues, Minister, are primarily the result of economic growth, excellent economic prosperity and the structure of GDP based primarily on consumption. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's just the tax minister who needs to know. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u15	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding companies (prints No. 2722 and 2929). I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Joint Commission: Public Finance and Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding companies, print No. 2722. On 22 October 2018, the Joint Committees: Agriculture and Rural Development and Public Finances considered the report of the Emergency Sub-Committee on the Government's draft law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. The first reading of the draft law from this printing took place in committees on 11 September this year. The project was then addressed to the work of the Emergency Sub-Committee, which I had the honour of chairing and which adopted the report at its meeting on 2 October 2018. At the joint meeting of the Commission: Agriculture and Rural Development and Public Finances, a substantive discussion was held. In its course of the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 5 and Article 5 Paragraph 7 17 point 1 of the draft tabled amendments of an editorial nature, which were accepted by the government and committee. No legislative amendments were tabled. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Joint Committees: Agriculture and Rural Development and Public Finances, after carrying out their work and considering the draft Print Act No. 2722, are in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u17	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Małecki will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the government draft law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities. The envisaged solutions shall be addressed to farmers operating at least 3 years before the date of the loss of the debt management capacity. However, entities in liquidation or bankruptcy and those in respect of which restructuring proceedings are pending under the provisions of the Law of 15 May 2015 will not be covered. The solutions under preparation include four options to support farmers who are insolvent or threatened with insolvency. These options include: aid for the interest rate on bank restructuring loans granted by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, loans to repay the debts of agricultural holding entities granted by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, guarantees for the repayment of bank restructuring loans granted by the National Agricultural Support Centre and the acquisition of the debt of agricultural holding entities by the National Agricultural Support Centre in exchange for the transfer of agricultural property ownership to the Treasury. The above is intended to allow the payment of old debt partly restructured in previous restructuring proceedings related solely to agricultural activities. The restructuring procedure may be initiated after the relevant entity has submitted a request. In the case of an application to the ARiMR, the head of the county office of the agency shall be responsible for the application to the KOWR, and the director of the field branch shall decide in the case of the application to the KOWR. It will be mandatory to add to each proposal a restructuring plan containing elements such as: a description of the measures planned to recover the financial liquidity of the holding, a timetable for the implementation of restructuring measures or an analysis and assessment of the economic situation of the farm operator. The restructuring shall be subject to debt of a monetary nature arising from the pursuit of agricultural activities, including capital, interest and other charges relating to debt management. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the proposal for a law on debt restructuring of farm operators, which responds to the demands of the agricultural community, and is in favour of directing it to further process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u19	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The draft law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding entities is addressed to those holdings which, for various reasons, cannot fulfil their financial obligations vis-à-vis those serving agricultural holdings. The goal is quite noble, but what are the legal possibilities? The examination of the provisions of the draft law shows that not all agricultural holdings will benefit from State aid. We believe that all farms in Poland should be helped, not by a selected group of 1690 farms. The four forms of aid proposed by the government for indebted farms may prove very difficult to implement. Let me remind you that this is about subsidies for loans, bank guarantees or the transfer of agricultural property to the Treasury. What shows our conviction that this law may not produce the expected results? This is mainly due to the following conditions. Firstly, it is about low profitability in agriculture. According to specialists, it is at 2% The profitability is also dependent on the prices on the agricultural product market or the prices of agricultural inputs, as well as the decrease in the price of land. Secondly, the credit policy system addressed to agricultural holdings is not entirely satisfactory. It should be borne in mind that farmers in bankruptcy do not have a credit rating. So the question arises: Who is this help for? Minister! I would like to ask: First, does the resort have data on how many farms, according to the condition for 2018, are indebted to banks and other banking institutions? How much? Secondly, is the proposed system of expenditure from the state budget for the implementation of the bill sufficient according to the Ministry? I would also like to point out that during the meetings of the subcommittee and committee, the banking sector and the Financial Supervision Commission drew attention to the shortcomings of certain provisions of the draft law. According to KNF, the entry into force of the law can be illusory. This is due to the fact that one debt will be converted to another. In the event of non-payment of debts from indebted holdings, any costs will be borne by the Treasury. This proposal should be considered very seriously so as not to complicate the difficult situation in the agricultural sector. Please, Minister, explain the proposal to transfer the property of agricultural holdings in debt to the Treasury. It's a new solution. We believe that this provision is burdened with a big mistake, because the role of the State is not to transfer the ownership of agricultural holdings or agricultural property to the Treasury, but to create the conditions for farmers to produce food on their land and live a decent life. This proposal smells like nationalization. Such solutions have already been applied in the past. We know where that led. We also expect an explanation of how a farmer who chooses to transfer his property to the National Agricultural Support Centre in exchange for debt repayment will be able to continue to benefit from the lease priority or possibly a repurchase from the National Agricultural Support Centre of his former agricultural property. What mechanism will be used? After all, we know that the farmer will not have the cash to lease his property, and even more so to buy it from the National Agricultural Support Centre. We believe that the farmer will not be able to implement this idea. The rules that have been proposed by the government will not apply. In our view, this proposal is illogical and incomprehensible. In view of the above, the Civic Platform Club will not support the Government's print bill No. 2722. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u21	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law on debt restructuring of agricultural holding companies. For the past two years, we have been pointing to the need for urgent legal solutions coming in with the assistance of agricultural holdings in financial difficulties. This proposal is in line with the Kukiz15 agricultural programme, in which we pay attention to the need to include Polish agriculture in a new credit policy, equipped with tools to enable our farms to participate in the common EU market under equal conditions of competition. At the same time, we stress the establishment of a restructuring fund for debt holdings, regardless of their legal situation, i.e. the inclusion of holdings in liquidation or bankruptcy. Today's government bill does not meet expectations or meet the needs of farms. The main failure of the Act is its failure to adapt to the specific characteristics of agricultural production, especially in relation to farms that have fallen into financial difficulties, have debt, are insolvent, have no credit standing. Therefore, the applicant should be accused of an exceptional lack of professionalism when trying to find solutions in the case of indebted farms. The four types of tools used in the Act are only applicable to a narrow group of farms and are rather in good condition. None of these tools have more precise solutions, so in the collision with reality they will be flawed and consequently abstract possibilities of assistance. The main question is, for whom this law has been prepared and for what reasons. Isn't it the pressure of the agricultural community or the political pressure on the government side, which, as a result, was forced to create this act by implementing only the propaganda area? The crowning proof of the thesis is the determination of the extent of the phenomenon of debt of agricultural holdings in Polish agriculture. The government party for the purposes of this law stated that 1690 agricultural producers had a problem with the repayment of bank loans. As it turns out, the above data were collected between September and October 2017 and relate only to loans granted with State aid from the State's office through ARiMR. This pool shall not exceed 10.15% all loans granted, disregards any agricultural loans taken into account in cooperative banks and other forms of leasing and revolving loans for holdings not classified as strictly agricultural. The lack of verification of the scale of the debt problem of agricultural holdings disqualifies it as a form of genuine aid. According to our estimates, the debt problem of agricultural holdings is a problem of 20 and 30 thousand. farms with varying degrees of bankruptcy risk, with an increasing trend, particularly this year, in the year of severe drought. The proposed law is limited only to the above mentioned pool of approximately 1700 farms. In conclusion, once again, I would like to point out that the Government's proposal is a frivolous treatment of farmers and irresponsibleness by the authors of the project. I have a false hope of helping farmers from the state, and the truth is that only a handful of people in need will be able to count on any support. The vast majority will have to rely on themselves as usual. For this reason, Kukiz15 will not be able to support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u23	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, What the PiS is proposing to farmers today does not smell of nationalisation, Mr President - this is the nationalisation of agricultural holdings. First, the government blocked the possibility of selling agricultural holdings, strongly restricting the market on which farmers could dispose of their land, and now wants farmers who have a knife on their throat and no longer regulate their obligations, to force their father to hand over to the Treasury. In short, it is possible to summarize what you are proposing in this bill today, and under such a modern law it will certainly not sign. What are you really proposing? The bill is absurd because it says this: Farmer, you do not regulate your obligations, we will help you. We'll take your debts with your land and your farm. Of course, in order for us to do this, you must present us with a plan for the restructuring of your farm, where you will point out, dear farmer, how you will repay your current debts and debts that we will take over for you. But there are no two extremely important issues in the entire bill. First of all, about the lease conditions of this land in the meantime, during the entire restructuring process, and secondly, most importantly, about the conditions of redemption of this land after repayment of the debt. Let me put it simply: if a financing bank, any financial institution or other natural person were to come to a farmer with such a proposal, they would be regarded as loan sharks, wise guys and fraudsters because even the lease agreement of an ordinary car assumes certain conditions, i.e. the payment of a leased car, its lease rules, the principle of repayment and then the amount of redemption. And you say, "Dear farmer, you have a problem, we will take your debts, we will take your father's place." Not that we're gonna take it as collateral, not that we're gonna mortgage it, and then we're just gonna pay off the mortgage or the mortgage, but you're gonna say, "Give us the land, sign it over to the Treasury, and then we're gonna think about what conditions we're gonna give it back to the farmer, because the law doesn't exactly specify it." The question is, who will actually agree to such conditions. On the other hand, wondering who this might be a good deal for, I think that would only be the case if someone were to pay their debts above the value of the property, which would eventually be increased, artificially pumped up, so that they would not reflect the real state of affairs. Then it can actually be considered to be a favourable situation for such a person, for such a farmer, in which he will get rid of a greater problem than the value of the holding he has. Given that you are proposing a limit, you propose to allocate PLN 140 million to this law from the budget in the first year, and the limit of credit, which can be taken over, amounts to PLN 5 million, gives us the opportunity to restructure 28 farms. And the question is: Isn't the list of farms for restructuring lying on the desk of the Minister of Agriculture? After all, the director of the voivodship agricultural advisory centre will take decisions on this matter on a one-man basis. A ridiculous law, which has nothing to do with real aid to indebted farms, but either directed at usury and nationalization of farms, or just to make some strange, unhappily investment that today is to be taken over by the State Treasury. A different explanation for this bill than these two directions I don't see. As I said, there is no way that the Modern Club will accept such a bad solution, and a solution that has also been strongly criticised by the agricultural community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u25	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will present the position of my club, the club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, on the bill to restructure - some say: extend - farms which in previous years, for various reasons, not always because of their mistakes, are in financial difficulties. That's how it is on the market that some people are developing dynamically, others have problems. Many farms are having problems today, but they want to keep going, they have some ideas. As we know, the agricultural situation is very difficult. Even in official government documents, also in the justification of this law, it is said that the income situation is constantly deteriorating, and the number of farmers in debt, including those with loans that are difficult to repay, is constantly increasing. This does not only apply to strictly related agricultural activities, as this also applies to debt due to family ownership in rural areas. Official records are talking about it. This is caused, of course, by two things, among others. significant cost increases. I would like to draw attention to two things at this point. Firstly, for all farmers, energy costs. Those who consume electricity for economic purposes are very few, and in recent times there has been an announcement of significant increases in energy prices, which go into several dozen percent, which will make the situation even worse when it comes to electricity in rural areas, not to mention energy which is consumed in the form of fuel. The prices of diesel, including those used for agricultural purposes, break records and even the proposal to increase compensation for farmers by PLN 14 per hectare absolutely does not correspond to the increase in costs, increases in diesel prices or compensates for losses for this, and farmers' sales revenues, as we know, are decreasing, because despite what the Minister says, the revenue situation is not improving at all. So there was a project that was really expected by farmers as a law that would help them reduce debt, catch breath or liquidity. But is this project like this? No, I'm afraid not. This was mentioned by the previous speakers, noting that the proposed mechanisms would not be common mechanisms. And it is also worth noting that many banks already today, e.g. cooperative banks shall implement resolution programmes within the framework of their services and contacts with the farmer. Banks propose a specific way of running the farm so that the farmer can catch his breath and pay off the loans previously made. This is where you come out with a proposal for government institutions to take care of it. These proposals are at least flawed - and I do not want to say that they are inefficient, but at least lame - and there will certainly be a small group of farmers who will benefit from these mechanisms not only because of the small number of funds reserved for them, but also because of the procedure itself. It is also worth noting two important things. The words here were: the nationalization of the land. And this is a good term, giving the nature of this law, because so far there have been no rules which gave you the opportunity to take over Polish farmers' private land for the benefit of the state. You are introducing a dangerous phenomenon, a dangerous activity that can cause, as it was after the war, under various pretenses, to be taken over by one or the other decision-making centre in this case. What's going to be done with her later? This isn't right. A form of restructuring should be proposed which will not violate the farmer's right to own this land. Now the scale of this aid, the amounts that have been provided, guarantee... However, even for 2018 this amount is written down, and we know that it is already ending, and by the time this law enters into force, it is not likely that any of the benefits of this law will benefit. This law is - such are the voices - cut under some entrepreneurs who operate, because it will not be universal and we all know it. I think the Ministry of Agriculture also knows that this will not be a universal law. Whoever benefits, we'll look into it. We will be asking in the coming years who has benefited from this bill, because it will certainly not be a law that will help all farmers who have financial problems today. For all these reasons, our club will not be able to support this project, because this project was presented in the pre-election period, it is more propagandistic than the nature that would really help Polish farmers to extend their farms and improve their financial situation. There will be no support from us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u27	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to subscribe to the question? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Agriculture is a specific part of the national economy primarily because it produces under the cloud. Very many things are not up to the farmer. In all the pre-election declarations, we have heard about how much we want to help agriculture, how we want to keep family farming in its current form. Unfortunately, the declarations end. For years, more teams have not prepared a reasonable, rational agricultural programme to ensure the profitability of agricultural production. That is why we have what we have: falling farms, people leaving the countryside, unfortunately most often abroad. Here's a bill to help farmers, but it rules out a large group of farms. It's about farms that are in liquidation and bankruptcy. This bill doesn't help these farms, and these are farms, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The ones who most need help. My question: Why was the holding excluded from this law in liquidation and bankruptcy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u29	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u30	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The planned restructuring plan, the farm recovery plan is to be assessed by the director of the voivodship farm advisory centre. Hence my question: What competences and qualifications of analytical and financial cells are required by the legislator? And second question: What is the appeal path in the case of a negative opinion presented by the director of the Voivodship farm advisory centre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u32	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions. The first concerns the position recommended by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture of cooperative banks or networks of cooperative banks in Poland, which are closest to farmers and which will provide restructuring loans. Is it really like in the statutory record that it will be real aid? Isn't there a risk that these loans will be lost to cooperative banks, which could complicate their already difficult situation in the financial market? Second line. Minister, I'd like you to develop an article. 7 point 16, which says that the land previously taken over from the debtor farmer by the State Treasury cannot be disposed of for 20 years. Suppose the farmer handed over the farm at the age of 50. By the time he's 80, he'll wait and reap. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To buy this property back? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u33	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u34	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You plan to support bankrupt farms at the level of involvement of the state budget in the functioning of the Sołecki Fund. You plan to help less farms than there are urban and urban-rural municipalities in Poland. Therefore, we see the epidermis of this solution. We should ask: If solutions need notification to the European Commission, and it seems that there is no notification, how do you want to spend 140 million this year? How? And the issue of this freezing of agricultural property in the Agricultural Property Resource of the State Treasury and the management of these properties by the national center. What tools? What kind of management [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're assuming? Is this resort really supposed to plow the earth and maintain this property? I don't really see the tools to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u35	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the draft law proposed by the government, there is no indication of what loans may be subject to restructuring. There are a number of further questions. What kind of credit is it? Is it due or not required? It is not known whether the proposed restructuring also concerns loans to which aid in the form of aid or other public aid has been applied. In addition, I wanted to ask: For what period will the banks be able to grant restructuring loans? Should the loan be equivalent to the debt held, or should it be higher, so that the farmer can carry out further activities to ensure that the loan and liquidity are repaid? Minister! In my view, there is an unacceptable law forcing farmers to transfer their farms to the Treasury. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u37	Thank you very much, Member. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Tadeusz Romanczuk to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll answer why the 20-year limit has been set. This is not a nationalisation or transfer of the holding to the Treasury. This is a contract with a bankrupt farm. The information we received from BIK shows that 1690 farms are holdings that have lost liquidity. They need help. I will also refer to Mr Maliszewski, who has helped me as well. After all, it is rightly noted that usually cooperative banks, which are closest to farms, are lending. When there are difficulties in paying, the bank controls it. A contract may also be concluded between a bank and a holding which is in difficulty. And those contracts are made. There's a prolongata, a setback. There are different situations, aren't there? We in this law want to include aid, as I said, 1690 farms which, according to the bank's credit information, have lost liquidity. And it is not that these farms are obliged to transfer land to the Treasury, to transfer their farm in a voluntary manner. If they can no longer, let me put it this way, home with the bank, this law allows the State Treasury to intervene and help. There's a 20-year period. There will be a contract - no commitment, no transfer, no loss of this farm, the contract - and this farmer will continue to be able to manage, but it must be, as in any situation, when there is almost bankruptcy, so-called. the corrective programme, so-called the restructuring plan. It applies either two sides or three, as it will in this case. And here I want to point out clearly and clearly that we want to help and meet expectations in such situations, it would seem, without a way out. And that's what this bill is about. Of course, there are many more indebted farms and troubles, but they are doing well, because we all know that the essence of cooperation between the bank and the farm that has fallen into trouble is not to lead to their bankruptcy very quickly. No, you have to find a good solution to make both sides happy. And we're helping them. To answer a few more questions that have been asked by ladies and gentlemen of Members about farms that are already owned by a syndicate or a debt collector, I inform you that we can no longer intervene there. Why? The law just doesn't allow it. Therefore, please understand the essence of this law. Information from 2017: 1690 farms are in very big trouble. So if they express their will - if they express their will in a voluntary way, I want to make it very clear - then we want to help them, they can make contracts, and that's it. Thank you very much. They won't, because we're, as it's written down, in the 20s and after a good restructuring plan, after a good recovery plan on the farm can return liquidity, and I'm sure he'll come back. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u39	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and Treasury on the Government draft law amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws (prints No. 2911 and 2944). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u40	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft Act on the Change of Energy Law (Print No 2911). The Commission took note of the draft law at its meeting on 24 October. In the course of the work, amendments adopted by the committee were proposed and the issue of further work on the project was welcomed. The aim of the project itself is among others.: regulation of the back-up selling institution, i.e. the sale of gas fuels or electricity to the final customer, connected to the electricity or gas distribution network or to the gas transmission network carried out by the back-up seller in the event that the sale of gas fuels or electricity by the former seller is discontinued. To this end, the project provides for changes resulting from the need to implement in the Polish legal order the network codes and guidelines adopted within the European Union, which constitute measures to build a common single market for electricity in the Community. The question of whether the device, installation or network is to be decided by the President of the URE is also subject to regulation. new or existing and general application requirements which include the conditions of connection to the network to be met by the device, installation or network. One of the most important changes is the introduction of a stock market obligation, i.e. the modification of the scope of the obligation to sell electricity produced by increasing its level from 30% to 100%, in order to improve the transparency of the energy market. There are currently situations where vertically integrated energy groups allow for trade in energy between entities within their structure, resulting in a significant part of the energy being avoided by the main stock market. Raising the obligation to 100% aims to reduce possible increases in electricity prices on the wholesale market that do not come from fundamental factors affecting the cost of generating electricity or the acquisition of neighbouring systems. At the committee meeting, amendments of an editorial and legislative nature were proposed, but also of a substantive nature. Their goal is among others.: extending the catalogue of entities informed by the seller to cease the performance of the contract also by a reserve seller so that he can be prepared as efficiently as possible to start the execution of the reserve sale, closing the catalogue of entities for which distribution and transmission system operators are required to provide information to each other, increasing the level of protection of customers of gas fuels and electricity before the supply of those media, extending the deadline for handing over a copy of the reserve contract or a comprehensive contract concluded on its behalf from 10 to 30 days due to doubts as to the possibility of simultaneously sending contracts to multiple customers, adapting the new provisions to the energy law system and increasing the flexibility of operators in determining the quantities consumed by the final customer of gas and electricity fuels, or maintaining contracts before the date of entry into force of the proposed regulation to all entities that have concluded an electricity sale agreement. Mrs. Marshal! Following a positive opinion from the committee, together with the amendments, we ask for further work on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u41	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mateusiak-Pieluch will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the Government's draft law amending the Energy Law Act and certain other laws, since the project is compatible with European Union law and is not subject to the requirements for the presentation and receipt of opinions, consultations or agreements as regards the bodies and institutions of the European Union. The proposed amendments to the Energy Law comply with the obligation to implement network codes. Network codes and guidelines are part of building a common single energy market within the European Union. Since network codes are European Commission regulations, they are therefore in force for EU Member States. The proposed changes meet the requirements for us to build a single energy market. There are provisions in the current law relating to reserve sales, but they only apply to the sale of electricity. In the new wording, the Energy Law will define and regulate the issue of the sale of reserve electricity and gas fuels. The proposed amendment to the Act consists in completing the existing provisions with regard to reserve sales. The energy market must ensure continuity of electricity supply in order to function efficiently. This is due to the institution of the reserve energy seller - a company whose role is to care for customers who, due to the problems of their current energy seller, would theoretically be left without the seller. In market practice, the energy reserve seller is another active seller who operates on the same market as the relevant seller for a particular entity and has a signed contract with the distributor serving that entity. In a crisis situation, the backup seller is obliged to take over clients from the seller who made the contract. The proposed provisions in the Energy Law also define the obligations of the Energy Regulatory Office in the event of network codes. Since the transmission system operator only examines the requirements of formal notification and not whether the conditions laid down in the codes for the recognition of installations, installations or networks as existing are met, these obligations will be assumed by the President of the URE. In addition, the President of the URE will examine this and decide to consider the connected devices, installations or networks as existing or new. Network codes as a regulation of the Commission of the European Union due to their direct applicability since their entry into force form part of national law and are applied directly, without the need for transposition into national law. The establishment of any act of national law which would repeat the rules contained in the network codes would constitute an infringement of Union law, as it would limit the direct effectiveness of regulations as Union acts by withdrawing from the date of entry into force of the laws creating the rights of individuals. The proposed amendments to the Energy Law do not infringe and support the application of the regulations of the European Commission. It should also be noted that the introduction of an obligation to sell the energy generated in its entirety through the energy market exchange is beneficial. To date, this obligation only covered 30%. 100% sales through the listed energy market will improve transparency of trading and should effectively regulate possible price increases by taking advantage of the dominant position of individual energy market participants. This solution is beneficial to the public, and we share the Government's view that: "The above, in the opinion of the designer, will stabilise electricity prices on the wholesale market at a competitive level, thus preventing their unjustified growth for electricity consumers. This solution should improve the long-term position of consumers in the domestic electricity market. In favor of the bill, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I submit to the Marshal an amendment to the Act amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws in print No. 2911 and 2944 for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u43	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u44	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will present an opinion on this law. I wanted to start by saying that it is obvious that we should adapt some of our legal provisions to the European single market, and to this narrow extent I will agree with the rapporteur's opinion, as well as with my previous speaker. So much would seem to be positive about this law, because if we are to adapt European law or Polish law to European law on the basis of Community law and adapt our solutions to network codes and guidelines - and that is what we agree - we should not choose a narrow group of those provisions that are beneficial to us, just look at some opportunities and opportunities that, if they are used, will be good for the end user, that is to say they will stabilise the price of energy and not facilitate, for example. the operation of energy companies. Why do I want to report here, I would say, doubts about the instrumental use of EU rules? Because the facts are: We had data - you can read them in public publications - for example. On 3 November, energy in Poland was the most expensive in Europe. Interestingly, where there is a uniform, uniform market for electricity, the price was the same and lower than in Poland. You can be specific about facts. In Poland we had PLN 303 per MWh, in a united Union, the one with a single market, it was PLN 280 per MWh. How did this happen? Just by combining electricity systems, the possibility of using those energy sources that are cheaper at a given time. If, say, a given source can be expensive, not used, then it is easy to transfer this energy e.g. from the wind, from the sun, from the gas - where this energy is most. We can agree with the fact that some things need to be regulated in the Energy Law Act - when the existing supplier interrupts delivery, what needs to be done is specified. Okay, we can agree on that, but it's an excuse for changes that can't be accepted without public consultation. Also in this Chamber, including the group that has discussed this so far, we should set the directions of Polish energy. We are enchanted for three years, every moment, that there will be an energy policy of the state for a few years, and it is not so far. [[Applause]] What's going on in this bill? We decide on the so-called. the obligation to sell, i.e. this stock obligation, to increase from 30% to 100%. What are the facts? At the moment, there is virtually no trading on the energy market. If we enter these records and if we respect 100% , that, Minister - after all, we spent so many hours together to simply master this issue - how many of these 100% Is it really gonna be on the stock market? No more than 30, I bet. Why? Because bilateral agreements are in force and the vast majority of energy is already contracted. How much of this energy is going to be on this 100 percent market? Let me remind you: when we introduced a stock market obligation, energy was graciously at 5%, and we saw tears in the eyes of people who had to accept this change. We managed to push 30%, and for two to three years there was an energy market, and it worked. And now after 3 years suddenly 100% ? This is eye soap, because it's not gonna work, three years have been asleep. And what else? We were talking about a lot of pending laws, about smart grid, about the common market, about linear investments, and what do we do in this law? Energy monopoly is being introduced - all repair and maintenance work will be by law [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the energy side. This is the introduction of a legal dictatorship against private property. We don't agree with that. Your Marshal, in this case I will report an amendment deleting the article. 2, which does not allow the legal dominance of energy companies over private property. Of course, the club will be against this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u45	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. And please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Print No. 2911, a government bill amending the Energy Law Act and some other laws. According to the applicants, the aim of the draft amendment to the Energy Law Act and some other laws is to implement European Union law. Indeed, this act affects as many as two regulations of the European Parliament and as many as three regulations of the Commission. This Act also provides for the amendment of the Act of 21 August 1997 on real estate management, the Act of 25 August 2006 on a system for monitoring and controlling the quality of fuels and the Act of 11 January 2018 on electromobility and alternative fuels. As you can see, it is a legal act that affects a very important branch of Polish industry, the Polish economy, as my colleague mentioned just now. We also believe that it should be considered comprehensively much earlier. Are there positive aspects to this project? Undoubtedly, they do exist. The draft amendment introduces changes, among others. the wording of the articles concerning the reserve sale and the definition of the reserve seller, the definition of the sale contract, changes in the obligation of the electricity company to produce electricity for the sale of that energy on commodity exchanges within the meaning of the Trade Exchange Act of 26 October 2000, the powers of the Energy Regulatory Office in relation to new and old installations. However, ladies and gentlemen, there are more negative records. They are not sufficient in the case of the proposed amendment. Legal observations, Art. Article 49a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The first point is point 8: In determining the scope of the exemption, the term "long-term obligation' is used. In our opinion this is a vague concept - it is necessary to determine what period we mean, e.g. the duration of at least 5 years. The second point is the concept of corporate finance appearing in point 8 (a). b. What exactly does the author mean? The exemption from the obligation will not be as optional and granted by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office (the Act said that he could be exempted from the obligation), will be a statutory exemption which does not require anyone's consent provided that the statutory conditions are met. The messages must therefore be clearly defined. As can be concluded, it is the loans granted by the shareholders of the manufacturing company concerned rather than the ordinary contribution to the company's share capital, because in this way any undertaking in the energy group could be exempted from the exchange obligation. Comments of non-legal nature. The introduction of a 100% stock exchange obligation is probably intended primarily to stop the rise in energy prices, but, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, here is the energy price chart from last Saturday. Poland had the most expensive energy in Europe last Saturday. I understand that you would like to spell reality and change it, but manual control did not work out in the Polish People's Republic, and I fear that it is also not the best idea now in the free Republic. The introduction of a 100-percent stock exchange obligation is probably aimed primarily at halting the rise in energy prices on the market. In our view, it will not meet its hopes in this respect, mainly because the structure of the manufacturing market, where PGE's dominant position on the market, makes our three energy heads determine the prices on the market. Other questions are also raised in the face of the revision. Why, despite the three years of the PiS government's term of office, was the issue of a stock exchange obligation only dealt with now, while the time was used to destroy RES-based solutions? Is the amendment of the law a full implementation of European Union legislation? If not, please indicate the derogations in relation to European Union rules and their justification. Why are network codes adopted if Poland does not have significant cross-border connections? In our opinion, the non-development of such connections in the context of changes in the European energy market in the medium term will damage the Polish economy. It is worth to inform everyone at this point that on November 3rd this year. wholesale prices [[♪ The bell ♪]] The electricity has evened up almost all over Western Europe, apart from Poland and two other countries. This is the map I was just showing you. Does Prime Minister Morawiecki still believe, as was heard during the election campaign before the local elections, that the increase in energy prices will not affect the competitiveness of the Polish economy? That's not gonna happen, Minister - it always does. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u47	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u48	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I have the honour to give my position on the proposed law amending the Energy Law. Well, there are no revolutionary changes or visions in these regulations to solve existing problems, and it is difficult to disagree with what the predecessors have said here, even if you are Minister Czerwiński. Today we already bear the clear cost of Poland not being in the European single market in terms of energy. We have the highest prices in Europe. This already has negative consequences for our economy, for local governments. You can see that very clearly. Local authorities can no longer cope with street lighting at the moment, with the maintenance of public buildings. This price increase is also taking place in individual customers. Already today, what another year or two years ago could be seen as news becomes real. This information for the Polish economy, for Poles, is increasingly alarming. This - hopefully not - can cause a drastic shock to our economy, economic downturn, price increases, especially in the energy-intensive industry. Even those ideas that come out today... The stock market, i.e. to include all electricity in the electricity market, may in the future, if all is settled, have some effect, but today there will be no revolution here and there will be no effect. Continuity of deliveries. It's a good thing we're thinking about securing the continuity of supplies, because it's been years since that continuity was interrupted. There were also years that we waited, we were nervous, or sometimes in the middle of the summer this electricity would not be turned off. The backup salesman - this is important and necessary. That is why it is clear today that this strategy of no vision of energy policy in the country is beginning to have negative effects. Of course, the situation is not easy throughout Europe. It can be seen that electricity prices in Europe have increased significantly, but Poland is in a situation of much worse tradition and now, given our economy, even on a European scale, we will be less competitive and Poles will pay for it. Poles will pay for this, our companies, our companies, local governments will pay for it. That is why we are calling on the government to take decisive action, because what has been done so far does not have any effect. We do not support the solutions proposed here because they are not any positive solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u49	Thank you very much, sir. Before we go to the questions, I wanted to welcome guests from Tarnów: a group of students of the Pontifical University of John Paul II and a group of students of the General Education School Complex No. 6 in Tarnów. Welcome, students and professors. [[Applause]] Now let's get to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to add yourself to the list of questions you are asking? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Such a specific question. 30% of the stock market sales, now up to 100%. What percentage of energy trading is currently in bilateral trade? What's he like in stock trading? Until when are bilateral agreements concluded? That's the first question. Second: If the energy price increases in 2019, Minister, do you think? How does the government intend to control the increase in energy prices in 2019? Is the government currently suppressing the price of energy through the Treasury companies? How much longer can he do this? Is he even able to do that? I see that politically you will want to stop the rise in energy prices by 2019. Is it possible, Minister, to make sense of it? How long can companies of the Treasury at the expense of their own profitability promote the policy of the PiS government? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u51	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u52	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you a question. This backup salesman is seemingly a good solution. I think there's a need to have that kind of security here. Doesn't that affect the rise in energy prices? Because this backup salesman has to keep his production ready, he has to bear some costs. Doesn't that affect the rise in energy prices? Please dispel my doubts here. And second question. Renewable energy. The year 2020 is coming, these commitments remain. I'd like to hear from the Minister if we're the 15% We'll make it by the end of the accounting period. If not, what will be the next cost incurred by Polish energy? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How will this translate into our final recipients? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u53	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u54	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! You could say it's hot all over today, but that doesn't mean we have that much energy. It is hot because all Poles are impatient, afraid of what will happen to this price of energy, Minister. We have heard in the parliamentary, club speeches that this price of energy at some time was highest, and it is not small at all, it is expensive. We are ahead of the end of the year, the beginning, we enter in 2019. New regulations are coming in, new laws are coming in. Minister! Please tell the Poles today, if the price of energy in Poland increases. How much more will the average Pole be able to pay? What are the components of this account today that directly affect this account? We have also heard in the rapporteur's speech that today, Minister, the right free energy to sell on the stock market is very little. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to ask you if you're aware of how much really free energy you can sell on the stock market today is. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u56	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As far as electricity is concerned, today we know that we have the most expensive in Europe, but we can have the stupidest. In fact, the Minister lost the opportunity to write in this bill, that e.g. Polish energy companies can produce buses or weapons, taking over the Polish Energy Group. Such ideas certainly do not serve to reduce the price of energy. I would like to ask you if you are aware that energy price increases have affected the economy like a stream of liquid nitrogen released into a living organism. There are two good indicators on what is happening, as is predicted by economic developments: the demand for scrap metal and the demand for pallets. Please know what this case is like, because these are indicators of the impending crisis. And finally the basic question: How long will you pretend that what is happening in the economy, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as regards these prices, will it not translate into individual customers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u57	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Wojciech Zubowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u58	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few questions for the Minister. I have listened here to the statements of the opposition representatives and I wonder where you have been in previous years. Question, Minister: Is it true that the average age of our generation capacity in Poland is over 30 years? Is it true that the average age of our transmission lines is also over 30 years? Is it true, Minister, that we have twice as much shipping losses as other countries, e.g. Our western neighbors? Is it true, Minister, that Donald Tusk promised us that in 2019 we would already have a functioning and functioning nuclear energy, from which we will be able to receive electricity, which went to 800 million PLN? As for your comments, ladies and gentlemen, you have your comments, I understand that, but you do not even pay attention to issues relating to the costs of certificates that have increased several times. The Ministry has therefore already asked EU actors to take action to reduce them. Don't blame the government for the price of electricity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] if they are factors independent of government activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u59	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Minister Tomasz Dąbrowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the speeches there were several comments, comments which mainly focused on energy prices and one element that is regulated in the project, i.e. the stock obligation. I will start by answering these questions and commenting briefly. The first thing about the price comparison from 3 November, because several times it was pointed out that on that day energy in Poland was the most expensive on the basis of prices across the European Union. It must be said that this was the case in one hour. It was about an hour or so. 9 a.m. and indeed the price in Poland was several zlotys higher than in other Member States. And then those prices evened out. [[Success.]] This is probably due to the fact that November 3 was a special day. [[Voice from the room: We are watching, Minister, we see.]] It is known that the price is determined by the supply and demand relationships. If we look at prices on Nord Pool Spot today, it turns out that it is much, much cheaper in Poland. This is the system price in neighbouring countries - 61 euro. Look at the price of the CRO on the stock market today. She's in the range of 220 zlotys. Therefore, we are much better placed than the neighbouring countries, I mean Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, the Baltic States, but also Sweden, in the 4th zone and Denmark, because this is part of Nord Pool Spot. Therefore, I wanted to explain that it actually happened, but only for an hour and this is probably due to the amount of energy that was traded on the stock exchange that day. [[We'll find a few more hours.]] The market has it in itself that it behaves in such a way that this price is fluctuating. I think it's a good thing that we're such a stand-alone market that there's a disturbance in one market, one part of the market, e.g. in Western countries, they do not move to our market. The second thing I wanted to address is the question of the level of obligation, how much will be placed on the stock exchange, as is the case with those regulations that are included in the project. I would like to remind you that as the electricity exchange obligation was introduced at 30% or 55% in the case of gas, then on a good case some issues were left unregulated. In the case of electricity, the rules only applied to energy produced and kept silent about... establishing this as a basis for calculating percentages, so they did not include all production. Today, when all production is to be covered by the obligation, it is necessary to determine in some way what is going on with what has already been contracted. And here are two possibilities. The first possibility is once again to completely ignore the issue and hope that in each individual case disputes will be settled individually. It is possible to adopt a solution which boils down to the fact that the legislator by law will interfere with these agreements. Then we are dealing with a kind of expropriation from the rights deriving from these contracts, or we can respect those agreements and say that the basis for calculating the obligation does not cover what is covered by those contracts. In the submission, this is in the version of the committee's report, this is the solution that has been adopted. Thus, the legislator decided not to leave any unregulated area, I said here, this concerns all the energy generated, and decided to respect what has already been contracted, i.e. not to expropriate from the rights arising from the agreements concluded. [[That's the problem.]] If that's how we see it, because it fell out of the room, that's the problem, that's really the problem that's going to end over time. [[How long?]] It depends on individual contracting strategies. Nevertheless, this is something that is inevitable and will happen. It is a matter of fact that if someone, that I say so, decided to conclude contracts that he was fleeing from the obligation, it also means that he decided that he would accept other risks associated with this action, because he does not know the price of the fuel, he does not know the price of CO2, he must somehow secure it. It is not such a simple matter to contract for many years forward, because then it must accept in the dark risks, which are much worse than contracting at certain prices. Another thing that rained here is also a duty and is linked to prices, which is how the government intends to react in the situation that has been presented here, that it was actually more expensive in this one hour. Above all, yes: the obligation is to make the market more transparent. This is always a good solution if we know that all manufacturers are obliged to put their entire production on the market. This also improves the liquidity of this market, which also means that it is more difficult for this market to disrupt some incidents. Thirdly, if someone thinks that one of the players on the market can have the power to use it, that's how we take it away from him. Therefore, this is one of the key actions that the government has decided to take in order to protect consumers in the sense that a properly functioning market allows the right balance price to be established, whatever it is, but it would result from those behaviours that are on the market, only everyone must act so, honestly and in the same way. Complementarity is the provisions of this project governing reserve sales. Let me remind you that so far there has been a regulated back-up sale, concerning electricity. Now these provisions have been extended to the entire gas reserve sales department. We have previously noted such events that some vendors have started to have problems on the market, mainly due to the fact that they were leading a bad strategy or adopted the wrong contracting strategy, because if someone signs sales contracts without a secured supply side, they have a short position, then they are heavily exposed to various types of fluctuations in the market. Such a sales strategy, contracting the whole on the spot market, is wrong, by economic nature. [[It's okay.]] But we see that these things can happen, and so all the provisions on backup sales have been a little more developed in relation to what has been done and also supplemented with gas matters. As far as all questions about the price of energy are concerned, I assume that in the following years - we assume - after these regulations have been introduced, the transparency of the market and the improvement of the liquidity of the market the price will be the right price, the equilibrium price of this market. We are trying to eliminate all actions or all behaviours of market participants that could lead to a price that would deviate from the price of equilibrium. So this is about transparency, but also about the impact on the part of the price that results from manufacturing costs, for example CO2. I will remind you of the initiative that was taken by the Ministry of Energy. When we saw increases in CO2 emissions prices in August this year, the Minister of Energy asked the Commissioner for Competition Vestager and Commissioner Canete responsible for climate policy to investigate whether there had been any behaviour on the market, some concerted practices aimed at raising the price of emission allowances at least in the short term, in order to use it, for example. in terms of some indicators used in bilateral settlements or simply for speculative activities. Following the announcements of various types of action, this price fell to below EUR 20 today, and it is therefore clear that something has happened. No one has been held by hand, so we are not accusing anyone at the moment, we have only asked the European Commission to investigate the case, because the Commission is there for it. Furthermore, we have also asked for the Commission to launch its actions. It is possible to convene a committee which may reflect on the various intervention measures in a situation where the price of emission allowances over a given period is more volatile than the average price over the last 2 years. As you can see, at this point, these actions have, at least in part, had an effect, because the price has begun to fall. There have also been questions as to whether reserve sales will not affect the rise in energy prices. Mr Kasprzak asked. In the regulations that are contained in the draft, there are provisions that indicate that this sale will take place on the basis of tariffs which are applied and which are normally subject to approval by the President of the URE, unless the recipient concerned reaches the seller who enjoys the freedom of non-approval of the tariffs. It's just one case. And I think that's it. In the case of codes, these are indeed not regulations that implement these rules, but adapt national law to EU regulations which apply directly. Let me remind you that such legislative action in this area of Energy Law has also taken place before. This involved adapting our national rules to the REMIT Regulation on market transparency. It was also necessary to specify the procedures and to introduce criminal rules. Here we define procedures for recognising what is an existing installation and what is a new installation. In case of doubt, we shall indicate the authority to which the President of the URE is in this case. Other questions went beyond the scope of this bill, so I will only refer briefly to them. When will the policy be presented? I hope that this month, before COP, it will be made public, which has already been announced several times. We are trying to coordinate this with the various activities carried out also in the EU or international arena. And I think that's all about the questions I've written down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u61	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and Treasury on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining and certain other laws (Prints No. 2907 and 2943). I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u62	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy and Treasury has dealt with a governmental bill amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. We worked on this at the meeting on 24 October. The Commission recommends that the attached draft law be adopted by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u63	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Maciej Małecki will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. The reason for this amendment is that the provisions of the law on the operation of hard coal mining expire at the end of this year. Further public financing of the restructuring of the mining sector requires an extension of the duration of the law. Poland in February this year, exactly 8 February, received the consent of the European Commission to extend the act until 2023. The next step is the adoption of this Act in the Polish Parliament, in order to extend the operation of the regulations until 2023. This will allow for the continuation of public aid for mining, the sum of which will reach nearly PLN 13 billion in 2015. The amendment of the Act will allow social protection for miners, the liquidation of the assets of the mines that have been extinguished, the cost of repairing the mining damage caused by mines that are in liquidation or have already been wound up. It will also be possible to finance the repair of the damage caused by the liquidated or in the course of the liquidation of the mining plant. The amendment also responds to the needs of the salt mine in Bochnia and Wieliczka, because it will simplify the process of granting public aid from the state budget in support of culture and heritage conservation. On the occasion of the speech, I make an amendment to this law on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. The amendment is intended to cover the activities of the Act also of miners who operate in the mining trade union organisations, so that they can benefit from mining leave, paid during the period of mining leave cover benefits, this applies to workers employed in the mine, mining plant or part of that establishment, in connection with the rights acquired after 1 January 2015 by the company mentioned in Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Law of 7 September 2007 on the Functioning of Coal Mining, which at the date of acquisition of the rights act by choice in the bodies of trade unions associating employees of the mine, the mining plant or its designated part. In view of the fact that periods of trade union duty are not indifferent as regards the acquisition of mining pension rights, it is also justified to allow workers exercising those functions who are acting on behalf of all persons employed for the acquisition of mining pension rights under the conditions laid down in this draft law. This applies to a small number of miners, a total of approx. 100 to 130 persons, in JSW - 50 and 70 persons, PGG sp. z o.o. - 30 and 40 people, Tauron Extraction - 12 people and Hoglokox Country - 6 people. This is information obtained from coal companies. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u65	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u66	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I would like to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club the position of the club regarding the draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. In the amended act we touch several entries, or actually one record from three laws in this part concerning the operation of hard coal mining, relating to the restructuring of hard coal mining. Some call it mute, others talk about mine decommissioning, job losses. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an extension of the financing period for this restructuring, the decommissioning of mines until 2023. What's happened so far? I would like to remind you that on 14 September 2016 we have amended the Act of 22 January 2015 on amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining in the years 2008 to 2015 and amending other laws, when we wrote down the limit of financial expenditure for this liquidation, the restructuring of this industry - PLN 7 billion at the request of the government. Today, perhaps not today, but on 18 November 2016, we received a position on the European Commission's website. We read there that following the decisions taken in September 2016 by the Polish Government on the closure of non-commercial coal mining units, Poland notified to the Commission the plan for the allocation of PLN 7957 million from public funds to guarantee the organized closure of mines. Of course, this information has also arrived, and the position of the Minister of Energy has also emerged as a follow-up to the fact that these funds will be earmarked. How's it looking today? These measures were to be developed in the years 2015 to 2018. Today we are dealing with the fact that in various forms, under the different names of eight mines, more than 15 thousand have been eliminated. jobs, more than 45 thousand jobs were eliminated, counting modestly, jobs around the mining industry, also decreased, the level of hard coal mining in Poland decreased. The energy security of Poland was violated, as the companies informed the president of URE. Now we have, ladies and gentlemen, such a situation that for today or at the end of 2017, the Minister informs us that he has used less than PLN 2 billion of these funds. There is still quite a large sum left, but we receive information, also today, that the Minister received the approval of the European Commission, which he requested, for additional funds, another PLN 5 billion, to extend the financing period for the restructuring of mining until 2023. We hear here about the amount of nearly PLN 13 billion to complete this process. It is commendable, however, that this law states that there will be no increase in funds from public aid, but that the funds included in the Act will be used up to PLN 7 billion. In fact, the High House has no current information about what is happening with these measures, how the restructuring process is going. It would seem that we should all know this on a regular basis, either the Minister or the Prime Minister should present every year information on how the mining restructuring process is progressing, how many mines have been wound up, how many jobs have been lost. Therefore, please, High Izbo, the Civic Platform Club proposes an amendment to the Act in which it asks and demands that the obligation of the President of the Council of Ministers to present this information annually be recorded so that the High Chamber, which is to deal with the control of spending funds, the implementation of this process, for which special funds have been allocated, powerful resources, because actually about PLN 13 million, [[♪ The bell ♪]] She could have checked it out. In the second part of this law we are dealing with a change in the way, with the shortening of the notification process related to aid directed to actually historic mines Bochnia, Wieliczka, but also coal mines, Zabrze mines. This is where we really want to support this process, which requires a simplified procedure and not to apply for notification every now and then. For this reason, the Civic Platform will probably support this provision, while the support of the others depends on the adoption of the proposal that we are submitting today, on full control, full information submitted every month by the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u67	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope that the committee, as well as the Minister, will accept an obvious amendment to this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u69	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u70	He will also be able to present this process more honestly and objectively every year, reaching for further funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u71	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u72	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the government draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and some other laws. According to the applicants, following the decision of the European Commission of 8 February 2018, extending the financing from the State budget of the restructuring process for the coal mining sector until 2023, it was necessary to update the provisions of the Law of 22 January 2015 amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining in 2008 and certain other laws. According to the applicants, the amendments contained in the draft amendment to the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining will be financed within the limits of the budgetary expenditure referred to in Article. 6 of the Law of 22 January 2015 amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining in the years 2008 to 2015 and certain other laws. The extension of the funding period will not result in an increase in expenditure within the limit set out in the above provision. Therefore, I would very much like to ask the Minister to clarify a few doubts. Firstly, the European Commission's decision extends funding from the state budget for mine decommissioning to 2023 rather than restructuring costs for the mining sector. Using the explanatory statement: the costs of restructuring the mining sector, i.e. also active mines, is unauthorised, inaccurate and does not refer to the law on the operation of hard coal mining in the years 2008 to 2015. The aim is to sober up and disguise the actual intention of the law, which has been passed for a specific purpose, namely to finance the liquidation of the mine, the mining plant or its designated part. Secondly, the proposal to amend the Article is presented. Article 8a (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 3 introduces a dangerous precedent in relation to the current wording, as it defines the mine decommissioning process as a process of decommissioning only bottom infrastructure, and all surface infrastructure activities are referred to as post-decommission operations. Such a provision is in principle an attempt to circumvent the deadlines for the closure of the mines indicated in the decommissioning programme. It allows to extend the decommissioning of mines, to postpone the deadline to the nearest indefinite date, which will therefore not be without an impact on the total cost of mine decommissioning. The liquidation of the mine shall mean the decommissioning of both the bottom and the surface infrastructure, including the sale of unnecessary assets, or the transfer of certain land or facilities, e.g. for the benefit of the municipalities. The only cost, which is difficult to determine, is the cost of mining damages, because they are difficult to estimate, because they can come out even up to a few years after the liquidation. This is, among others, the case. the cost of pumping water to prevent flooding and flooding of neighbouring mines. Therefore, the financial resources needed to eliminate mines should be separated from those necessary to cover the costs of mining damage and water pumping. I would ask that the Minister take this position into account in the further legislative process concerning this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u73	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking in the framework of the draft law amending the law on the functioning of hard coal mining and some other laws on behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - the European Union of Democrats, I would like to say a few points. Well, this discussion today - and also if we are watching closely all the things that are happening around coal mining and the problems involved - shows how much money is being directed to this sector. It's obviously scattered, it's camouflaged in different places, but how would we count those billions that I don't think we or society are able to find out about, they're huge billions. These are huge billions, and we very often, talking about energy prices, energy prices, energy costs, we're skipping billions, and these are really huge billions. Not to mention the buy-out, the buy-out of coal on the heaps, which was covered by a great mystery, and no one today knows how much it cost. This was done by the Material Reserve Agency and others. Today we are dealing with an ongoing one, and it is not known until when the decommissioning and restructuring of existing mines. This also does not definitely close those expenses that are constantly incurred, and we cannot clearly say here today, because we certainly will not get such a position that this is the money and that is the end of the problems. Of course, the damage involved, the mining damage in liquidation - this needs to be secured, because these are social problems, local government problems. So I would like to point out that every now and then we have a drop-in here, another bill, more spending, not millions, but billions, tens of billions of zlotys, and in total, if we summarized it, it would probably be a huge shock for everyone, not just for us, but for those who would know about it. These solutions need to be supported, because they are already a thing of the past, they are already in the process, but we also need to think about rational and decisive solutions to these problems, because they are also financial problems and problems that bring even greater social problems to us in the future, for example with smog, with the price of electricity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u75	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u76	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 in relation to the draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining and certain other laws. It would be necessary to start by saying that since 2015 mining - and this needs to be duly emphasised - has been radically directed towards non-privatization, maintaining in the structures of the Treasury. It is about maintaining a sector that is practically a pillar of our country's energy security. It should also be borne in mind here that it was a great effort by the government and it was an even greater effort by the social side, which agreed to concessions in order to keep mining plants in the structures of the Treasury. Another thing that is raised here is that my previous speakers should note that the billions that are spent on public aid allowed by the European Union are the money that mining is simply due to the fact that for many years mining has been paying much more in the form of taxes to the budget and has been drawing a handful from work and from the fiscal burden of hard coal mining. As for the insinuations I heard that there was a share buy-out, until now an unknown quota buy-out from the Material Reserve Agency - these amounts were as much as possible presented during the time it was done, at a special meeting of the Energy and Treasury Commission, classified due to the sensitivity of the data. This was transparent and transparently presented to the Members of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. And it is absolutely necessary to support this project, which maintains the possibility of maintaining security and energy stability based, however, on the history of our country on stone coal. But we still have questions to ask. The question needs to be asked whether there is a chance to reduce the fiscal burden on coal extraction, which will have a direct impact on the final price of electricity. The question should be asked how much the modernisation of existing mining facilities is planned. And here, Minister, I would also like to bow down for the fact that one of the mines, the Sośnica mine, has been maintained and will continue to work for the Polish Mining Group. And this is where it needs to be emphasized. It is also important to stress that mines are not plants that do not have any working time. They have a certain working time and for economic reasons, at some point this production must be stopped - for economic and security reasons. Here's another thing. I would like to support the amendment which has been tabled here. I have the same one, but I'm not gonna fold it. The amendment concerns the support of representatives of the social side in the wounded parts of the workplace or mines. It's about people who go to early retirement. Namely, one must be aware that it is not that the representative of the social side does not risk. Firstly, he certainly worked for many years in mining before becoming a representative of the social side. Secondly, he had the courage to speak out about problems in the industry, in his workplace, risking often some repercussions. Those who work for their colleagues in mining are the solution that needs to be supported as much as possible. In this connection, I also wanted to ask a question, Minister, concerning the widely defined so-called. omitted. These are issues related to the allocation of coal, where persons employed were forced to sign a declaration of resignation from the coal allocation after retirement. I would very much ask you to address this issue in the context of this operation. I hope that last year's declaration on how to solve this problem is slowly taking shape and we could lean on it. Therefore, as a representative of the Kukiz club15, I declare my support for the project presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u77	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Paweł Bańkowski is the first question to be asked, but he put the question in writing. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Due to the decline in production over time, the revenue from the operating fee will be reduced to the budgets of the local government units and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. I wanted to ask you, are there any estimates as long as these influences decrease? How will this affect the functioning of local governments? Will this in any way be compensated for by local government units and the fund? Let me remind you that most of our local governments are facing financial problems, and we are putting more and more tasks on them. In my view, this is a very important problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u79	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u80	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It is good that it cares and strives for Silesia, but also remember about other regions in which coal has been exploited, so that the energy of the country is at the level at which it is at. The deposits are over and there is no government decision, e.g. about the discovery of Oscosłowo and Wielkopolska eastern. Therefore, following the lead of local government officials who asked questions and who unfortunately did not get the answer, I ask: What happens if there is no decision of the government regarding the discovery Occlusively? Will the Silesian government prepare a compensation scheme for the Eastern Wielkopolska also based on similar funds and public aid similar to that which is currently being applied to Silesia? So, Minister, please answer me. If there is no discovery, will you prepare a similar program, of course on a different scale, for Wielkopolska East? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u81	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Are you able to explain to Members of the Civic Platform what is the restructuring of mining, what is saving money? Was what was found by the government of law and justice after the governments of the Civic Platform a success or failure of the Civic Platform? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u83	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, we know that the restructuring process is tedious, difficult and indeed requires many procedures, the involvement of many people, including us, Members. It's our common duty to make this process go smoothly. We are talking about further financial resources with a shift to the next years. I have a question for you: do you intend to reduce this burden - it is about reducing public aid - the state budget by e.g. the sale of the Krupinski mine, on which, as we have heard many times, various entities came forward? Are you still planning to sell this mine in the form of a tender, or do you want to eliminate it completely and for this reason the Treasury, perhaps not only us, but also taxpayers will not have to lose any funds? Another question. The restructuring process, as the Minister clearly states in the explanatory memorandum, is also aid provided for one-off checks for persons who have passed on mining leave to pensions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All of this will have to be paid out as part of this process. I would be grateful if the Minister would be kind to say how these departures on mining leave have evolved, on the leave of surface workers, what is the issue of those benefits that were paid. It is very interesting how many people will actually leave by the end of the year, because it will also be a certain amount of money that we will have to allocate. We also remember this from the Civic Platform that we amended this law. At that time, we started the social assistance process for people who were moved, eliminated, gone. We have introduced the whole chapter 3a into the draft law that is in operation today, so that you can pay out these funds. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u85	Thank you, sir. I'm asking you to follow the time. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Minister Grzegorz Tobiszowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your speeches, for your questions. With regard to the issues of Złoczew and Osciuslov, Mr Złoczew, this is, as you probably know - I share your commitment to this issue - a matter that goes on schedule. Indeed, there is a question of Cognizance. This is rather outside the competence of the Ministry of Energy as regards decisions, because there is a legal dispute and it is going on in the context of the activities of a private company and the Ministry of the Environment. However, we actually confirm that we, the Ministry of Energy, believe that Occlusively is needed in the system. We're invited to some meetings. As far as I know, from the last meeting a few months ago, where I myself and the mining department were personally, there is a will to try to settle this issue this year. On the other hand, when it comes to covering areas other than areas of the Silesian Voivodeship with development or in some way reclamation, preparation for investments, there is currently a discussion within the European Commission about the so-called. a regional platform. In fact, in the first stage of the conversation only the Silesian and Polish voivodship was involved, and now it has expanded, and other countries have also been involved in the talks. We're waiting for the budget to be drawn up. I would like to confirm that we have also made a suggestion to think about this - since it has gone beyond the Silesian province or beyond this issue concerning SRK and these recently transferred assets, parts of mines - whether the discussions also cover areas which are covered by activities related to brown coal, but also earlier. So far, it's such an avisiting, calling the subject. I share this position and I want to say that we will also try to cover other areas of Poland with some kind of funding, a programme, because not only in the Silesian province or in this agglomerational south of the country we have the issue of areas that should be adapted and prepared for investments in some way. So that's what I wanted to explain. As for those funds that we are extending by this law, I would like to say that the law does not impose the additional expenditure that we have requested, whether, in fact, the Parliamentary amendment, adopted and corrected by the government, related to 7 billion, is being increased. These are the same measures, we have only been given permission and we can carry out sheltering work for employees as well as prepare areas for investment. The European Commission has shared our reflection that a certain phase is ending in 2018. We have a reserve of resources, and we have an idea of how to lead this case in the SRK. That's why the deadline was extended. By 2023, we can spend these measures under the Council of Europe Regulation, which ordered only decommissioning work, otherwise we would have an administrative blockade here. Hence, this law allows us to continue our work within the SRK. All I can say is that, beyond 2018, no coal company will be able to transfer assets under restructuring measures anymore, because the extension concerns only what is already under the SRK. Therefore, this law allows us to carry out certain things within the existing structure. As for Krupinski, it's just like it used to be with the Makoshovs. We've announced a contest. As far as Makoszowy mine is concerned, no investor has actually made an offer, but only one piece of paper indicates that someone wants to buy it, but this person has not even provided his data in terms of business. Now we also have a more public space theme - you probably hear about it - while in the Ministry there is no offer submitted to show the activity of mining, which is the investment plan the entity has, which is interested in acquiring the mine after Mr Krupinski, why he believes that 2 000 are needed. persons, not e.g. Two and a half thousand. Or $1.5,000. We would also like to see that the company that expressed its interest in Krupinski at least allows us to see that it has some resources formally available so that they can be involved in investments in Krupinski. That's what made the situation a little stalemate. On the one hand, there was someone who expressed interest, but there were no relevant documents behind it, which would make it possible for us to run the competition and settle it. Let me put it this way: There was one meeting at the Ministry about submitting an offer. Unfortunately, there was no formal application for this offer, and in fact it is difficult to say here that we have someone who formally takes part in the competition or would like to function formally when it comes to the acquisition of Krupinski. I think that if such an offer were confirmed by appropriate financial means, or if it were confirmed that there were these measures somewhere in the bank, then it would be much easier for us to make the right decisions. With regard to the number of persons and the various cover benefits, if you would allow me, at the committee meeting to be held on amendments, we would give this number of persons. All I can tell you is that we spent 1,104 213 grand on cover services today. However, for the committee's meeting, we will try to break this amount down for individual years, as well as for individuals in individual groups, because here we have retirement pensions, these previous benefits. That's how we'd break it. On the other hand, as regards Mrs Płępek's question about resources for municipalities, we have here the following phenomenon: the extraction as such from 2015 is not significantly lower, the demand for coal has increased enormously, and therefore the resources for the environmental fund have not decreased here. On the other hand, the issue that Mr Sitarski also asked about in his speech, the fiscal burden... Last year, a tripartite team submitted such a proposal to the Ministry of Finance to consider which fiscal burdens could at some point be abandoned or reduced in some way, in connection with the construction of a certain fuel system, followed by a system concerning the Fuel Quality Act, where we built a certain control system. These issues were somehow shifted over time, but I think that next year should be the year when we should again try to persuade the Ministry of Finance to consider this issue. As for the deputies, as you know, the government has adopted a resolution on the last group that can be legally regulated, the group that is not in the first law you know about regarding pensioners. After checking and analyzing, we know there's 24,000 today. widows, orphans and people who could benefit from this right. It is even about those who did not make it in the first stage when it comes to compensation payments. This is regulated, which will already be the subject of our debate at the next meeting. However, it remains, indeed, and thank you for this question, a group of around 12 000. persons, miners who have signed, while on the mines, an appropriate statement that they voluntarily waive the right to a coal depot. There are voices that it was not necessarily voluntary to sign this witness. However, the problem that arises here, notice the state, is that all groups, including those that were covered by the Coal Deputy Compensation Act, as regards this one-off payment, were pensioners who were deprived of the rights they held as pensioners. This last group, actually this collection, which is covered by the law which the government has adopted and which is going under the Sejm, is also a set of people who have had the authority and to whom these powers have been removed. As far as these miners are concerned, they have agreed to waive these powers. At that time, indeed, what needs to be confirmed was a difficult situation in mining. This was probably a prudent decision by these miners, but from a legal point of view we do not have the legal option to regulate this issue, because we would be dealing directly with public aid. This we would not be able to do, because the European Commission would definitely accuse us of the fact that one professional group, which is legally not saying that it is a situation in order to understand me here... I know there were circumstances. The miners say they signed, but they weren't necessarily convinced. They signed it with their will. Now we don't compensate them as much as we give them because they're lost here... These people did not comment on the matter, but the miners spoke. The only issue that could have been considered, I spoke about it last year, and this year I also mentioned it, is that it is an internal decision of companies that can talk about it. Recently, there was a committee meeting, a trialogue in Katowice. In the Chamber we had a division of representatives of the social side, because some people said that it would be good to return to this topic, I was asked to engage myself and to conduct such meetings, mainly in the Polish Mining Group, while others in the Chamber said that they did not agree that at a time when there would be quite a lot of money for investment, when these investments were needed, to give up investment and transfer these funds to these miners. So we have a more complex, more difficult situation here, which is why we cannot legally regulate this issue, even if we have good will in parliament, and I know that many of us have such good will in parliament. The legal path is a closed path because Parliament does not have that possibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u88	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft of this law - as confirmed in its opinion by the Office of Sejm Analysis - allows for further financing from the budget of liquidation by the government of PiS mines. Taking into account the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice adopted at an away meeting in Ruda Śląska on 12 January 2015 on the threat to the existence of Polish coal mining in Silesia, which indicated that The aim must be not only to preserve existing jobs, but to radically increase their number, I ask the Minister to answer the following questions: 1. How many jobs have been permanently decommissioned in coal mining from 31 December 2015 to 31 October 2018? 2. How many mines, mining plants or parts thereof have been closed in the period from 31 December 2015 to 31 October 2018 and transferred to the Company for the purpose of decommissioning? 3. How many jobs in coal mining during the period planned in the draft law, i.e. between 2019 and 2023, he plans to liquidate the PiS government? 4. How many mines, mining plants or parts of mines - and which - plans to eliminate or transfer to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, i.e. for liquidation, the government of PiS? 5. Which coal companies will create new jobs in place of permanently wound up by the PiS government in the years 2019 to 202023? 6. How many new jobs does the PiS government intend to create in the coal mining industry in Silesia in 2019 and 202023? 7. In what time horizon does the PiS government intend to create new jobs in coal mining in Silesia? I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u89	In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on National Defence on the Government's draft law amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland (prints No. 2846 and 2930). I ask Mr Rafał Weber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u90	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! Officers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the National Defence Parliamentary Committee. The report concerns a draft law amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. This is in print No 2846 and the report itself is in print No 2930. The Sejm Committee on National Defence regarding the substance of this change applies positively, without a vote of objection. The Commission shall submit a report and ask the High House to adopt this draft law. The discussion itself about the substance was very short. It is the agreement of all parliamentarians to extend the planning period of issues related to the projects of modernization of the Polish Armed Forces. Of course, it was not without a side discussion that was not related to the discussion, but I do not want to talk about it and I should not. On the other hand, as a general rule, the substance is the agreement of all Members of the Parliament's Committee on National Defence to accept this proposal. If there were questions for me as rapporteur, I am at your disposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u91	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u92	Dear Marshal! Minister! Generals! High Izbo! The project, which has already been discussed by the rapporteur, is not controversial because, as it stands, it is intended to extend the programming period of the defence programme from 10 to 15 years. This is also due to issues which concern planning commitments in terms of modernisation and acquisition of new technical thought, new defence equipment within the framework of the Natowski system, which result from the agreements of individual countries, generally from Poland's participation in the NATO system, between 2018 and 2032. Due to the fact that this technical thought is changing, that also the defensive concept concerning the equipment of the Polish army evolves, evolves in the right direction, in the right direction, this period of time for achieving the optimal situation, when the Polish army can gain the best equipment, the extension of this period is as desirable as possible, as necessary. Because, as the rapporteur mentioned, this law was not controversial - it was not controversial also at a committee meeting - on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice I support it. The Law and Justice Club will also express its support during the vote. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u93	Thank you very much, sir. And, please, Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Generals! Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to what the Law and Justice representatives say, the bill raises very serious controversy, because it must be said that Poland, when joining NATO, adopted an ally principle of 10-year planning periods. The Government of the Civic Platform and PSL prepared all basic documents concerning the defence of the State, and in particular the development of the Armed Forces, for this ten-year planning period. Most of these documents were accepted in 2013, so they are valid until 2022. After taking over the government, these documents should be updated at certain intervals - every few years - so that they have this ten-year perspective. The Government of Law and Justice has committed criminal omissions and negligence in the preparation of basic State defence documents. Detailed directions for the reconstruction and development of the Armed Forces were adopted by the Council of Ministers in May this year. for the period 2017 to 2026, i.e. with a 15-month delay. To this day, ladies and gentlemen, there is no programme for the development of the Armed Forces and implementing documents for this programme, and in particular an important document such as the plan for technical modernisation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. These documents, which I am talking about, the Armed Forces Development Programme and the technical modernisation plan that are in force, are documents in the perspective of 2022, those prepared by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. Today, the government does not tell us why it has committed such reprehensible omissions, does not tell us who is guilty of these state-defense negligence. He tells us that he wants to extend the planning period from 10 to 15 years in order to adapt to the requirements of Natov to meet the needs of modern equipment, and it is known that the purchase of this modern equipment requires multi-annual plans. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an escape from your own faults, from very serious negligence, I say: criminal negligence in defence planning. Gentlemen, today tell us why there are no plans in the ten-year perspective of Natovian responsibilities. Why did you violate the basic defensive planning law? Today you're talking about how you want to extend this period to 15 years. Issue documents for today which, first, would be in accordance with the law, would comply with the Natovian rules, and second, would allow the basic tasks of the development of the Armed Forces to be carried out. But the problem, ladies and gentlemen, isn't just that you broke the law, that you broke the defense planning rules of the North Atlantic Alliance. You guys are even going to these plans, I'm talking about the government, in a disrespectful way, whether you're even treating these plans as if they weren't there. A few months ago, we had information that the President of the Republic of Poland and the Minister of National Defence were going to negotiate in Australia the purchase of used fregats. But, ladies and gentlemen, the plan of technical modernization of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland does not assume that Poland will acquire a fregat. On what basis were these intentions formulated at all? It shows that not only the question of this period is In fact... You owe it to me to shorten the 10-year period to the 4-year period. Now you're talking about extending to 15 years, but you're not taking these plans seriously at all. So I say this today: we will support the extension of this period to 15 years, because we are taking this issue responsibly, while we will settle you for reducing this period to 4 years. Maybe not us, in this case it would be appropriate to hold you both accountable constitutionally and judicially. And that's right in front of you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u95	Thank you. The voice of Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Generals! The extension of this period to 15 years is, of course, a compliance with NATO rules, so here we have no doubt. I'm not gonna go into wondering if it's some kind of escape or not from negligence. I would rather go in that direction so that we would not, on the basis of an argument, but on the basis of consensus, think together about planning, about how our army should look in any age. That is why my request to the Ministry and to all the members of the committee that we should not do politics in defence, but above all think about how our country and how our defence should look. And here is also a request to the ministry that if there is planning, that you also take suggestions from the opposition, because you do not know whether you will always rule or not, and yet this planning, if it is to be long-term, must agree with the concept of the majority, because if we change it with every new power, it will be one big mess all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u98	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested bill amending the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces is not a revolutionary, actually and not an evolutionary project. It introduces a cosmetic but correct change in the length of the planning period, which will be 15 years according to the amendment. The remaining provisions of the Act, its relevant material side, remain unchanged. The plan will continue to be updated every 4 years. The government will continue to set out detailed directions for technical modernisation after consulting the National Defence Committee, taking into account NATO defence planning principles. The reason for this correction is the same decision taken by NATO, which extends the planning perspective in the same size, so that taking into account this change by the national legal order seems fully justified. Moreover, a similar change was the conclusion of the However, as a modern one, we believe that the government's actions on shaping the security of Poland are subject to undue delay. This argument is confirmed by the government's adoption of detailed directions for the reconstruction and technical modernisation of the Armed Forces in June 2018, while the document refers to the planning period which was started in 2017 and which lasted until the end of 2026. In the current state of law, the Ministry of National Defence has no legal basis to enter into financial commitments beyond 2022. In conclusion, the Modern will vote in favour of the amendment of the Law on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces, stressing the government's tardiness in defence and security issues. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u99	Thank you. Mr Stefan Niesiołowski, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I share all this argument by Mr Mroczek or Mr Mroczyk - I do not know, I think Mr Mroczek is changing, I am sorry - except that I cannot agree to the conclusion, because, however, the Member says that the Platform, I understand, will vote for this harmful amendment, which is for me a summary of all your incompetence, the destruction of Polish defence by PiS, by Macierewicz, of everything you have done. I don't see any reason for a gesture of support to live up to all that PiS has done in this area. And in that case, I have the honour to say that the PSL-UD Members' Club will vote against these PiS feats that today find some sort of attempt to solve them. On the other hand, I am also very pleased with this political thought of the PiS appetizer, Mr Kukiz, who claims that it is not possible to make politics in defence. I'd move on. Don't be embarrassed. If anyone's criticizing at all, they're not just doing politics. If someone criticizes PiS, he is simply a traitor, an enemy of Poland. Poland is the PiS. If something doesn't like PiS, it should be punished at all, and it needs to be made clear. Enough trampling in a place and some half-words. What does it mean to do politics? Criticizing the PiS is simply a treachery, and in this spirit I am very glad to see Mr.Skurkiewicz, a prominent politician, a triumphant of the current political season, who flashed the talent in Radom, to which Mr.Kaczyński comes, Morawiecki promised the airport. Congratulations, Mr. Skurkiewicz, come to the committee a lot and talk a lot. Speak a lot at all. [[Minister, Minister, Minister.]] In general, you should talk a lot. Back to technical solutions: extending the army by 5 years. You've had enough time, and you've done nothing about it. The Polish army was destroyed by Mr Macierewicz. If I hear you need another five years, and this is where you're hiding from NATO... Why didn't you do it before? What does that mean? Are you preparing the new Misiewicz? You conducted in the army - and you had huge successes in this area - a general cleansing. There are many generals in this matter. Basically, this is your area of expertise. You've ridiculed yourself in Australia by buying some rusty frigate. All your efforts go to the territorial defense here in this courtroom... There is even a Member here, the hero of this debate... You claimed that territorial defence would in no way be used in any internal defense of PiS power, and you were quite outraged if someone suggested that in this law - because these are social concerns that this is a political formation - to state that this will not be the case. Your beloved PiS child is territorial defence. You didn't have time to do modernization and planning anymore, and now you're asking for five extra years. I see no reason for the PS-UED club to vote for this. Bottom line, I'm saying it's absolutely late. It's just an attempt to cover your inability. You are asking the Sejm to lend you further trust in this. This is a team that has done so much evil that has destroyed the army, which has made so many mistakes in this field, which is so incompetent that I see no reason for this team to continue - and whether it is Macierewicz or Misiewicz or Skurkiewicz, it really does not matter - it is responsible for the defence of Poland. What we can do is vote against this essentially political project, some kind of credit for trust in the PiS Ministry of Defense. You won't get a loan like this from our PSL-UED club. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u101	Mr Niesiołowski has for the past few decades been the start of groups from the extreme right to the left. [[Don't comment. You're a PiS appetizer.]] Kukiz, 15 was never an appetizer, and there will be no appetizers. Sit down, don't be nervous. It's bad for your health. Please, let's get to the questions. [[That's not a marshal's thing.]] It's up to me to decide, not you, Mr. Darkness. [[I judge your statement.]] Here you go, Mrs. Margaret Navel, Civic Platform. Question time - 1.5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's just a little digression when we're discussing this project. We extend the time limits for modernising the army, we add the money. But do we really care about defending our country? Next year, a significant proportion of the defence budget will be devoted to non-defence objectives. There is 0.5 billion for the modernization of the police, a similar amount for the modernisation of roads under the Self-Government Road Fund, there are expenses for the Air Emergency Service and 0.25 billion for aircraft to transport the most important people in the country. The funds for modernising the army will go to a large extent for other non-military expenditures. I have a question: How much do we actually spend on the military without doing creative accounting? Are we fulfilling the statutory requirement of a destination of at least 2% Gross domestic product for our army? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We want to extend the planning period from 10 to 15. Then why does the Armed Forces Development Programme provide for a 4-year period? Is this the continuation of these periods? Because I'm sure there will be other tasks. By the way, I wanted to ask you about the declaration made by the Prime Minister of our government in Radom, who during the meeting with the people of Radom, although during the election campaign in the second round, said, quote: In Pionki, I can say today - I am agreed with the Minister of Defence Mariusz Błaszczak - that we will separate Pionki as a stand-alone industrial and defence facility. It'll be right here on Radom soil. And further: We will invest PLN 250.300 million, a huge amount over the next few years, in the production line of nitrocellulose and in the production of other factors, which will be an important link to the independence and sovereignty of our defence industry. I therefore have a question: Is there any timetable for the work and implementation of this investment? Is she even included in these 4-year-old and 15-year-old plans, as you wish? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen Officers! At the outset, maybe a digression which I am referring to the representative of the people, this new acquisition of the people, and a reference to the statements about the elections in Radom. The Member here represented the decisive winners of the last local elections, so that, indeed, where the Member appears, political success is obvious and decisive. On the other hand, I would say that I would not be surprised if there were some issues here that we were discussing during this debate, a simple, private Member spoke about this, but, after all, a Member who was once Deputy Minister for National Defence, from whom we received a document from Minister Macierewicz at the committee meeting, indicating how he was dealing with some strategic issues related to defence, with Polish defence. Therefore, the question must arise here, for example, in the context of the acquisition of patriots, acquisition or possible introduction of American bases into Poland. Are these things that appear at the moment, they appear, you can say, suddenly or because of another point of view of Polish defence, also form part of this defence review system? Is that also a question that the Ministry of National Defence must plan sooner than these things, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What's going to happen later? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Shopping equipment and weapons for the army sets out a plan for technical modernisation of the Armed Forces. These are serious purchases, they require many years of time, so the plan should, by nature, be developed in the longer term. We learn from the reading of the regulations that are known to all, and which the current government has introduced, are in force until 2022, which is a 4-year period. The basic question we are asking is: Why hasn't the plan for technical modernisation of the Armed Forces been issued for 10 years? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said before, the PiS government has led us to have gross violations of the law regarding basic documents relating to the defence of the state. Instead of plans for a 10-year period, we mostly have plans for a 4-year period. But I think there's an explanation for that. In a world without these plans, it is actually easier to promise different things without these plans, especially as part of an election campaign. And I would like to ask you about what appeared and what is extremely important from the point of view of the development of the Armed Forces, in the announcements in the election campaign, also present here, the Deputy Minister, namely the Radom alternate airport, a spare for Okęcie airport. There is going to be a huge civil investment, which necessarily causes the army to push out, which means the military's operation is over, 42. School Air Base in Radom. And I ask, specifically, who in the ministry agreed on these plans, specifically, by name? You may have agreed this idea on the basis of the Armed Forces Development Programme, but I am convinced that in the Armed Forces Development Programme, because you have not changed it, there is no envisaged exit 42. Radom School Air Base. On what basis did the government announce the expansion of the civil airport [[♪ The bell ♪]] Radom? Who made this investment by name? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today's draft amendment concerns the extension of the planning period. On the one hand, you want to have 15 years to plan the technical modernisation of the Armed Forces - formally it is 10 years - while on the other hand, in your current edition, the current one is to reduce this to 4 years. There is therefore an incredible inconsistency. Why do you suddenly assume it's up to 15 years old when you're still doing it in a planning period of up to four years? Complete schizophrenia. The technical modernisation of the Armed Forces in the exercise of Law and Justice is complete chaos. Minister, so what if you're planning a 15-year period when you're even champions in cancelling tenders? We have a record number of canceled procurement tenders for modernization plans. When in 12. Will Mirosław's Unmanned Air Ship Base show up? When will the soldiers be able to carry out the tasks that were outlined when we set up the base? You could talk for a very long time about drones, about other aspects of technical modernisation that are completely failing you. I'll ask when the soldiers get the money for the summer uniforms you didn't give them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u113	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence, Mr Wojciech Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u114	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words to answer. First of all, I would like to apologize to the young people who were at the gallery listening to one of my fellow Members, the professor. [[A human being.]] Ladies and gentlemen, young people... [[They're gone.]] ... Young friends, unfortunately you've left the room, not all professors look like that. Don't worry, not all professors look like that. [[Applause]] And they don't all say that either. Ladies and gentlemen, a few points need to be clarified. But from the beginning. This really is a very important amendment and this is a very important law. And it is not true what one member of the Civic Platform said - I deliberately do not recall his name... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: He will be able to appeal.]] ...so he wouldn't be able to appeal to those words later...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u115	I'll explain to the Minister that you don't have to name them so someone can appeal to them. [[Applause]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Defence Wojciech Skurkiewicz: ...to say that NATO doesn't have such rules. You were Deputy Minister of National Defence, and I am surprised that you have no basic, elementary knowledge in this area. Because it is in the North Atlantic Alliance that these documents are adopted for a 15-year cycle and currently in force covers the years 2018 to 2032. You should know that. Too bad you don't know that. But that's just a detail. Ladies and gentlemen, a few issues that need to be clarified regarding the questions asked. If this were the case, as you suggest, then on the basis of what rules are being made today shopping, changes, etc., etc. in the Polish army? These multi-annual planning documents, I remind you, and you should know this very well, because you have also developed them - and I hope you have been involved, not some green people - from 2013 to 2022. We speak lively in 2018. [[So what's the perspective?]] The outlook from 2013 to 2022 is definitely a 10-year perspective. This is the first grade of elementary school. [[Yes, it is.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is one fundamental thing and nothing is changing in this respect. We want these planning documents to be adopted on a long perspective, a longer perspective. The optimal perspective is the years 2021 to 2035, and that is what we will strive for. That's not the slightest discussion. We therefore strongly encourage Members to support these solutions. But there are some key issues. Okay, there's a four-year perspective, just be aware that this four-year perspective applies to specific programs. And this is complemented in these four-year perspectives. If Mr Radom points out that the Pawn factory may not be built, because the budget of the Ministry of Defence, etc., etc., well, Mr... [[But I'm just asking.]] ...respectful buddy of Radom, you know he's calling somewhere, but you don't know where the church is, because the production facilities are alive from the Ministry of Defense budget aren't being built yet. And I hope it won't be built much longer, because it's a business venture. [[For your government, I'm sure.]] This is a business venture and this will not be decided by the Minister of National Defence. If the Prime Minister announces this, it will not be financed by the budget of the Ministry of National Defence. It's basic, elementary knowledge. 42. School Air Force Base. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are trying to convince us today that through the development of a civilian airport, 42. School Air Force Base, how can you be so sure and how do you know that? Nobody... [[People who know about it.]] Oh, guys. People say things. They also say that the Platform is a match of the right quality, and I don't know if it's true or not. Sir, there are no plans to liquidate 42. School Air Base. On the contrary, we are developing individuals, we are building an army today, as opposed to the state that you rolled it up, marginalized, who sold the property of individuals, you were disposing of a very valuable defensive asset. You've been getting rid of it, and today we have very adverse effects. There's one more thing. She spoke about the money that is spent on modernising roads. Madame, this money, which is intended for road modernisation, is intended only and exclusively for the modernisation of roads of a strategic nature from the point of view of defence of the country. We want to put an end to the situation that was in the days of the Civic Platform. Roads, highways, high-speed routes were built, but no one thought about whether they would be able to drive heavy-duty vehicles on these roads; the fact that bridges were not built so that military vehicles could pass through them, for example. The clearance of the viaducts is much lower than the defence considerations of the Republic of Poland would require. You disassembled the state's defensive position, you disassembled it. We have to make up for things today that you guys haven't seen, or maybe you haven't done on purpose. Today we are not able to drive from point A to point B a column of military vehicles, heavy equipment the shortest, simplest way, but we must key on the roads of small, smaller, communal, because the Civic Platform, modernising Polish roads, forgot that they will be driven by large, over-normative, military vehicles. That is the truth about 8 years of civil platform rule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[At least she was building roads.]] Thank you, Minister. In the procedure of correcting Mr Czesław Mroczyek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u116	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about an extremely important issue related to the development of the Armed Forces, with the purchase of modern equipment for the army. The rules state that the plans should be ten years old. Under the rule of the Platform, they were 10 years old. Now it's been brought into four-year periods. This government, instead of spending ten-year plans, says it will extend the planning period to 15 years. The Deputy Minister walks into this pulpit and says, "What do you mean? They're ten years old. If applicable until 2022, they were 10 years old in 2013. Yeah, they were 10 years old in 2013, and the moment you're in charge... It's an embarrassing performance. I've never heard anything like it before. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u117	Thank you. Minister? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No. Thank you very much. Committee rapporteur Mr Rafał Weber.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Officers! High Izbo! I was hoping for a calm and really substantive discussion regarding this bill. Unfortunately, she wasn't like that. As rapporteur, I will not refer to one of the peasants from PSL. But as for the words that have come to pass... [[But you're the rapporteur, don't be ridiculous.]] ...from this speaker on criminal and constitutional liability - you confirm - you know very well that you have a duty to report this to all authorities that control political and public activities, at the moment, when you are aware of the violation of the law. Please don't wait for you to win the election, because many of us, among others, say. About himself, he won't live to see it, really the perspective of 2042 is very distant. [[Applause]] I'm not gonna see that coming. Mr President, do so now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u119	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law on the financial support for audiovisual production (prints No. 2794 and 2947). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media on the Government's draft law on financial support for audiovisual production from print No. 2794. According to the justification of this draft law, the aim of the proposed submission of financial support for audiovisual production is the comprehensive development of the Polish audiovisual industry and the promotion of Polish cultural heritage in the world through financial support for the production of audiovisual works. The consequences of the introduction of new regulations are to improve the working conditions of the audiovisual industry in Poland and to create a modern system of financial support, which will strengthen the position of the Polish audiovisual sector on the international market, increase the competitiveness of Polish companies operating in the industry, and in the long term attract investment in this sector. This will thus have a positive impact on the widely understood audiovisual creation and many other areas of the economy and social life. The draft law sets out the principles, conditions and modalities for granting and accounting financial support for audiovisual production, without prejudice to the rules for the co-financing of film and other activities in the field of cinematography set out in the Act of 30 June 2005 on cinematography. The general provisions set out in Chapter 1 set out the objectives of the Act and the basic definitions, prejudicing its subject-matter and subject-matter. The aim of introducing a new mechanism for financial support for audiovisual production is primarily to improve the conditions for the functioning of the Polish audiovisual production sector and to create conditions for investing foreign capital in audiovisual productions carried out in the Republic of Poland and to cooperate between Polish and foreign audiovisual producers, as well as to increase the activity of Polish entrepreneurs active in the audiovisual production sector. Financial support should therefore translate into an increase in the international competitiveness of Polish entrepreneurs operating in the sector, which will involve increasing the exploitation of the technical potential of audiovisual production in the territory of the Republic of Poland and increasing the level of professionalism of Polish producers and service providers. As a result, the introduction of the mechanism is intended to benefit from the economic development of the country and the development of culture, as well as the promotion of the image of the Republic of Poland and the Polish cultural heritage in the world. The implementation of the objectives of the bill will be entrusted to the State Film Institute. The tasks of the PSIF related to the implementation of the submitted law will be primarily the granting, payment and settlement of financial support in the form of reimbursement of part of Polish eligible costs. Moreover, PISF's tasks include the collection and analysis of data on the audiovisual market, as well as the promotion of the Polish audiovisual sector and Poland as a place for film production in order to attract foreign producers and investors. The concept of PISF in the area of implementation is based on the best models from other countries of the European Union and the United States, where similar institutions have existed for many years. High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media on 23 August this year. The Committee on Culture and Media, following its first reading on 13 September, established an emergency subcommittee to consider this project. On 24 October this year, the committee adopted the report of the subcommittee, introducing 16 substantive amendments to it, which are to a large extent a response to the demands of the social side, and editorial comments from the Legislative Bureau. The Commission has accepted this proposal without objection and recommends that the High House adopt the draft law annexed to the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u121	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek World, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law on financial support for audiovisual production. High Seym! A few years ago in Wroclaw he was filming the famous Steven Spielberg. Contrary to the admirations of the then president of the city, this was not the effect of Wrocław's attractiveness as a place of film investment, it was simply one of the last places in Europe which could have been played by Germany from 60 years ago without make-up. After all, it is not about Poland being a museum for filmmakers, it is about being a friendly place, attractive to invest, used in filmmaking, television or video games. This opportunity is given by this Act, which is a little late, because similar solutions have been in operation in many developed countries for years. The Act, as it has been said, lays down the rules of state aid to domestic and foreign companies engaged in audiovisual production or auxiliary, service activities in this area. Importantly, it sets the limit for State expenditure for this purpose. Minimally between 2019 and 2027 it will be PLN 100 million per year. The top spending limit is rising and is expected to reach 266 million in 2027. It is worth noting that 10% is intended for the production of animation. The Act also regulates the award criteria and the rules for verifying the regularity of the spending of this money. We have a lot of bad experience in the past with the control of public spending, which is why this issue takes a special place in the law and has been the subject of the hottest discussions during the subcommittee and committee deliberations. I think we have achieved a good result, that is, a balance between the detail and the tightness of the record, and at the same time we will not tire the producers of excessive bureaucracy. I would add, of course, that the rules for granting public aid are fully in line with EU legislation. During the work on the law, some doubts were raised by entrusting all tasks related to this law to the Polish Film Institute. In my opinion, however, this is the optimal solution. The PISF has experience in financing film production, it has a prepared staff, and with relatively little effort it is able to take on new tasks, and it would seem that setting up a new institution would be a huge exaggeration here. I am convinced that this law and financial support for audiovisual production will allow Poland to join the leading audiovisual production countries, will contribute to the development of this very profitable production, create attractive conditions for Polish and foreign investors, ensure the technological development of the Polish sector, which will help the economic development of the country and finally contribute to the promotion of Poland. This is important - we all know how successful Sandomierz has been since Father Mateusz was filmed there. There is no obstacle in the future that Poland will also become an object of film tourism, as it is happening today with the plans of the Lord of the rings, the games of thrones or other attractive films. Law and Justice, of course, will support this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u123	Thank you. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is true that the committee unobjectionably adopted a draft government law on the financial support of audiovisual production. No objections, but with certain doubts. We are always happy when more money can be spent on film production, because it will be easier to prepare co-productions, and yet Polish cinema has a problem. That money for co-production movies is gonna come in handy. However, our doubts concern several areas. First of all, the Polish Film Institute actually gets an additional task, and this is a responsible task, because it has to distribute a very large amount of money. It must be done in a transparent, understandable way not only for officials, but also for the film community, for partners who will enter into co-productions. So this is an additional, new task for the institute, and this is based on different principles, because at the moment the institute has a lot of resources, but there are experts, groups, there is a system to verify this. Here money will be given on different terms. I believe that there are specialists who can handle it, but in one institution we have two different ways of distributing money. So here we have doubts about how this institute is going to deal with it, whether it's going to be all the way we thought it would be, talking about this bill. Second thing. Very precisely in this law are described all restrictions on money seekers, how to prepare documents, how to settle, what are the deadlines. This is all very precisely described. On the other hand, we know that the institute actually has twenty days to answer. I am also pleased because, finally, the institution has a certain period of time, it cannot postpone the decision indefinitely. This is a very good decision, but I would like it to be this way, and I hope that this will happen, that at a time when this law will enter into force and function, we will be able as a committee of culture to get a thorough report, how it looked, how this money was distributed, because in fact the Polish Film Institute has never passed such a thorough control, that as Members who, after all, create these laws, know how these funds are distributed. Control against producers - very well, because it should be very carefully checked how money is spent, but we would also like to know in the future how the institute managed to deal with this issue. Next case. I'm intrigued by one thing, and I didn't really get the answer to that question. In these materials it is written that each producer must pass the film media and the screenplay to the Polish Film Institute after the production has been completed and cleared. Does this mean that there will be another place at the institute where it will be collected? Because it always went to the National Library, once to the film library, and now I understand that the FINA took over this task of collecting scenarios and media. I do not know why it would be an additional task for the Polish Film Institute - to collect all these media. That's not what I asked when I worked on this bill, but it intrigues me. I am still very interested in how this will affect whether the first contracts will be concluded quickly. As for interesting co-productions - by the end of the year we have 2 months, we have a bill which, I hope, will quickly pass through the Senate, because in the Seym we actually worked quite long on it - how the first money will be spent and whether it will be spent. And I'm very curious about the productions. Our club will vote for this bill, although we have some doubts. That is why it will be so important for us to check after some time this law has been in operation, how it works. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u125	Thank you, Marshal. And, please, Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u126	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's very good that the filmmakers can get extra money. It's very important that filmmakers have something to finance their productions. This, on the other hand, is also an excellent opportunity to talk about how state money is spent in film space, public space. It is very often the case that expensive film productions by well-known directors, well-known producers, are financed, that there are huge resources spent on this. I remember the movie Essential Killing, which went to which probably 14 million PLN. What was the movie, it wasn't for me to judge. Everyone has their own opinion. On the other hand, for the same money, it would be possible to finance the production of less-known producers, less-known directors and give them a chance to get out, they could make their name, and I am sure that those directors who are currently being financed by the PiS would be perfectly able to cope with the collection of these finances, the collection of money for production. Those producers who are involved in these huge productions would also be perfectly capable of finding money, but the smaller ones are worse. And if the same money were to be used for 30 and 40 productions and 90% out of them was bad, and 3 and 4 would be good, so we would have 3 and 4 good Polish films that we could boast about. So, on this occasion, I think it is worth thinking about how to change a philosophy of thinking about financing or co-financing film productions, so that not only will it be possible and easier to work for those who are already on top of production, but also for the smaller ones, so that Polish cinema can simply develop so that these young directors, young producers can enter this market, a serious, large film market. There are many film institutes all over the world that finance only and only to a small extent a small amount of money. It often happens that this is most of the budget, but that's what allows young people to get out. I ask the Minister to reconsider the matter and take this issue seriously, just less funding for younger and new producers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u127	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Essential Killing, Jerzy Skolimowski, is an outstanding cinema. [[It's true, but...]] I would like this artistic level to accompany most Polish productions. I don't think 14 million is an excessive amount for film production either. I want you to know how much money Americans spend, the French, the Germans spend on film production, which is... [[That's all we know. But wouldn't Skolimowski find that money on the market?]] ...very important for what's called a whole culture, but it's also about what really determines the artistic level of cinema. Today the cinema is, as the Member knows very well, [[Game in the O.R.]] is also very strongly involved in technological development and is dependent on it today. It is worth remembering this and not reminding artists of money, because they are, in fact, thinking globally about their social role, always on the margin. And what they convey to us in the form of what we define as symbolic space is unbelieverable. Perhaps Polish artists really represent our national identity, as it is worth recalling in the eve of the century of regaining independence by Poland. On the other hand, going back to this law, which is of course very much needed and necessary, although it is late, as already mentioned by Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, in 30 countries this incentive for production is already present, in Poland - no. It's hard to understand why this is happening. My diagnosis, my observation, is that just culture after 1989 was indeed on the margin. Although Polish cinema has a fantastic tradition, phenomenal artists, this Polish cinema also had a total collapse and we all remember it. Only the establishment of the Polish Institute of Film Art caused that this artistic production moved from the hoof and then young artists and young artists appeared. This is very important, and remember that. But money for cinema is still not enough, and we all know that too. However, in two sentences I want to refer to this law, which is of course important from the point of view of Poland's presence also in the world. Let me remind you that, for example, Hobbit was supposed to be filmed in Poland, but for some unknown reasons, probably financial, was transferred to New Zealand or the fight for the throne was... whether some of the photos were shot in Croatia. I think it is worth remembering that this is also propaganda in this best sense - the country, our culture, our professional manufacturing companies. On the other hand, in the case of this law, one thing is very dangerous and dangerous, which is worth remembering, and perhaps we will change it in some time. Well, the Polish Film Institute has full competence to handle this great money, up to about 250 million, which are announced in the schedule proposed by the Ministry. Therefore, it is important to have an audit role, which is not the PISF Council, which was appointed by the Minister. And these powers of the control board would be extremely important if they were assigned to them. In such a situation, the director of the Polish Film Institute can decide in a discretionary manner which producer companies to grant money to and from. This is, I think, something that needs to be discussed, which needs to be changed in the future, and it is extremely important that we are here to be sure that money will go to individual producers in an objective way, and the criteria will be artistic values and values that will build our cultural space. It is extremely important that we do not give up such objectivity for the ideology of money distribution, which is possible in the current political situation. I will say again, I will stress that this law is extremely important, extremely necessary, despite its weakness. The modern one will vote in favour of the process and adoption of this law by Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Appeal, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u130	I just wanted to say, because apparently I was misunderstood, that of course I respect Mr. Skolimowski's work and work, he's a great director. Essential Killing is also a good movie, I liked it too. I'm saying I'm not judging, I'm not a movie critic, so that's why I didn't take care of it. But what I meant was that such an excellent director would be perfectly capable of finding resources on the market. I find the financing of recognized directors to be counterproductive when it is possible to finance those only growing and only developing ones in return. [[Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska: I think we need to talk about film production, and I'll explain it to you.]] No, I was a film producer. As for the movie I was working on, we had to pay for the PISF, and we didn't get anything from the PISF, so if... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] From the price of each ticket to the cinema in which our film was played, we had to pay a zloty for the PISF, and from the PISF we got nothing. And we had to finance Wajda's films, which would calmly manage to find that money, and we financed it from our own. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's the big difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u131	Like your marshal - not the marshal, as Mr. Mieszkowski says - he wants to correct, I invite you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: No.]] Okay, the list... No. Did Mrs. Pasławska make her statement in writing? No, there's no Mrs. Pasławska. Okay, let's get to the questions. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As we can read in the project, financial support will only be paid after the production or part of the production is completed and the documentation is analysed by an independent audit firm. This means reimbursement of part of the costs, including taxes incurred by companies in Poland. As I understand it, the beneficiary of such support will only be able to apply for a refund after the production of the film or the series. Most often, however, at the very beginning of the film design, producers do not have the means to implement it. Many talented directors are not present, many great scenarios lie in drawers, and individual people decide to finance production, not the value of the idea. I call for funds to be available to support young independent authors at the very beginning of their projects. And I have this question: On what basis will this money be granted, apart from the analysis and evaluation of documents? Will the content of the production itself as well as its content have no meaning? Explain that to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u134	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, wide-ranging audiovisual production is, as outlined in the justification for this submission, an increasingly important sector of the economy. It is also very important for the development of the image of the country, and thus not only tourism, but so-called. soft power. I would like to ask the following question: What institutions of the Polish state have instruments so that taxpayers' money is not transferred through the Polish Film Institute to produce so-called. works of slandering Poles, representing us as bloodthirsty anti-Semitics, glorifying communist criminals, and others so-called. flowers, which unfortunately have already happened in the past? I have the impression that if we do not introduce clear safeguards, one day we can look forward to movies about so-called. Polish camps, especially if - what do not give God - one day the Civic Platform will return to power in its present edition. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u135	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. You're welcome... [[Mr. Marshal, could I ask you a question?]] Well, there you go, yeah. Mr Mieszkowski - question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! I wasn't written down for the question, I didn't want to ask the question, but I'm taking the floor in the context of this psychic statement absolutely. However, we Members have a very important task and we must be aware of it. We can't censor artists' works. It is the artist who decides the shape of his work and the boundaries of the artist who sets himself, and politicians should be as far away from it as possible. If you're suggesting that we're going to decide whether or not an institution is going to decide the shape of film production or art at all, then it's unacceptable, I disagree. Please read the article carefully. 73 of the constitution, which was repeatedly quoted and invoked from this speaker. You can learn it by heart and then you will understand that the space of art is an area of freedom, is a democratic space, it is extremely important for shaping our socio-political, civic and aesthetic awareness. This is extremely important. Finally, the form: Your Marshal, Mr. Marshal, is correct. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u137	Not in Polish. It's so new, you know. [[Mr Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska: At the moment this form is already correct.]] No, no. But your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska wants to be called a marshal? [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: It depends on who speaks to me and what tone.]] I'm the one who's gonna let me say your marshal all the time, okay? Thank you very much. Please, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Referring directly to questions, i.e. Before addressing the questions, I would like to thank you for the hard work of the committee, because indeed the bill has been on the committee for a long time and we have worked very hard to find solutions that would fit the social side as much as possible, on the one hand, and on the other hand the possibilities of the state and the ability to control the spending of public money, because it was, apparently, the most difficult issue to solve. Ladies and gentlemen! There is often an argument concerning the possibility of extending the competence of the Polish Film Institute's programme board to exercise supervision of the Institute's director, while in this place I am repeatedly asked that the PISF Board is a programme council. She has competence in the field of e.g. approval of financial statements - there is a possible possibility for it to exercise some control function - while the control and supervisory function is exercised by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage and in accordance with the law and principles of the system that operates in Poland, this function cannot be shared. Of course, Members also have their competences. Your marshal raised the question of whether there would be information on how the money was spent, etc. Of course, because the Polish Film Institute now introduces a transparent system, i.e. all persons, all entities that have received any funding will be posted and are already posted on websites. So not only will you be able to see the functioning of the new system after a while, but you can also keep track of who gets the money and what rules. As far as issues related to supporting young artists are concerned, it is now that the director of the Polish Film Institute has introduced a new mechanism for financing debuts not only strictly, because anyone of all ages can debut, but above all young artists who will create new works, e.g. right after graduation or as part of a diploma. The Minister of Culture has allocated additional money to this issue for the Polish Film Institute so that this year it can be launched with this program. As far as film storage is concerned, the Act says that copies must be sent to the Polish Film Institute, but this is not a waiver of the obligation to transfer copies to the National Film Library - the Audiovisual Institute. This obligation still exists because these copies are stored for two different purposes: on the one hand, for the preservation of heritage in the National Film Library, and on the other hand for purposes, let's call it economical and economic accounting. In this respect, the Polish Film Institute will keep these copies. These copies can also be brought on some medium and stored on servers, so this is not a problem for the Polish Film Institute. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: So there will be an archive at the institute?]] Each institution has an archive, so to some extent this archive will be there, but in general all copies are in accordance with the Act in the National Film Library. And when it comes to the system itself, will there be someone who will judge content in some sense, in the system that we have now, there will be no such possibility. We're gonna have to pass a cultural test. In the cultural test, which will be an annex to the bill... That is, in the regulation, all the rules will be described in detail, all the points to be met so that the system will act automatically so that money can be applied for, for example. whether Polish artists will participate in this film, whether there will be Polish landscapes, or Polish musicians will create music for this film, etc., etc. There's gonna be a whole series of points. The draft regulation is available and can be consulted. Indeed, as Mr Mieszkowski rightly pointed out, the space of art is a democratic space and any creator can create the content he likes as long as it is legal, i.e. does not violate general principles of law, does not offend anyone, does not promote e.g. communist or fascist content, etc., etc. So by reducing it, in Poland you can make any film, even the dumbest, everyone has the right to do it. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: And that happens.]] It happens, unfortunately. As far as the issue of this mechanism is concerned, it is not a mechanism that directly supports cultural issues, although it affects culture. I'm talking about it because here was the issue of why not at the beginning, but at the end. At the beginning of the Polish Film Institute gives money, it is possible to obtain money, because that is the Polish system, that someone is applying to the Polish Film Institute, fills in applications, then the films are evaluated, whether they are suitable for further production, for further proceding, then at the Polish Film Institute there is a recommended amount to support and this amount is awarded by the director of the Polish Film Institute, then the film is produced, and only after the production of this film can you possibly apply for the so-called. Cash-rebate mechanism. This mechanism is an economic mechanism, not a cultural mechanism, i.e. On the one hand, in order to promote Polish culture, we allow you to reduce the risk of economic activity, which is very risky when it comes to culture, because sometimes you can create a really great work that is simply not going to take up and earn money in the world. In order not to look far away: when the film was created, the Android Hunter was a flop in the United States, only after 10 years became very popular and only further versions began to actually earn. So sometimes you can just miss the work into your epoch, but you can't make the creators afraid to create it, or else we'd reduce innovation. So this is a pro-innovation mechanism, when it comes to what we are creating, what we are debating today. It is a parallel system and the Polish Film Institute has the competence to operate both systems within one institution. There is no need to create more than a measure of existence, to allocate new money to create new directors, new deputies, new accountants, etc., etc. If this is all in one institution, then we can rely on it as a matter of fact in the world. To operate this system is to be additionally employed, it seems, only a few people. Please note that the system is as automatic as possible, i.e. that those who will be employed to handle this system will be more concerned with formal issues than with any detailed and profound analysis. We hope that the multiplier effect will also work here, i.e. We assume that about PLN 300 million will be paid for each PLN 100 million that will be spent under this system. So we take this not as a simple transfer from the budget, but as a certain investment. This investment worked well in most countries that introduced such a system, increased competitiveness, made us more familiar with non-American cinemas. If we go in, for example. on Netflix, we will be able to notice that there are productions from different parts of the world, e.g. more and more Korean productions, including that's because there's a similar system operating there as well. We want as many Polish productions as possible to be on such international services, so that we can also show our culture, our capabilities and our actors, and, as you mentioned, build our soft power. Therefore, there is nothing left for me to do but ask Members to adopt this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u139	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Now I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 minutes 40 hours 12 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor (Prints No. 2826 and 2924). I ask Mr Antoni Duda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Economics and Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor. The draft law was sent by the government to the Sejm on 4 September this year, in print no. 2826. The first reading was held on 3 October 2018 at 69. sitting of the Sejm. The Sejm sent this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. The Commission at its meeting on 22 October this year. This project was considered. The committee's report is in print 2924. The proposed amendments to the Law of 21 December 2000 on Technical Dosor are intended to bring the provisions of the Law on Technical Dosore into line with the current legal situation in other areas affecting the performance of the relevant technical supervision units and to increase the safety in the operation of technical equipment subject to technical supervision. These amendments aim to clarify the rules and improve the selected areas of the technical supervision system while reducing administrative barriers for entrepreneurs. The proposed amendments also implement the recommendations made following the inspection of the Supreme Audit Chamber at the Technical Supervision Office. 30 amendments are made to the bill, which the committee has examined in detail. During the discussion, a number of legislative amendments were tabled, which the overwhelming majority of the committee adopted. The only substantive amendment was tabled by representatives of the Polish Liquid Gas Organisation, an amendment which, following the discussion, the committee rejected by a majority as going beyond the submission of the amendments under consideration. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development recommends that the High Sejm adopt the proposed amendments to the Technical Dosor Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u141	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Olejniczak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present the draft Law on Technical Dosor, in print no. 2826 and 2924. This proposal concerns the adaptation of the provisions of the Technical Dosorage Act to the current legal situation in other areas affecting the performance of the relevant technical supervision units and the improvement of safety in the operation of technical equipment subject to technical supervision. Dear Member States, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club and the Economic Commission, we propose three amendments: in Article. 3, Article 4 and Article 4 5. They relate to the amendment of the date of entry into force of the Act due to the short period of vacathio legis between the publication of the Act and the original date of entry into force. It is proposed in Article. 9 amend the date of entry into force of those provisions which introduce simplifications for which the technical supervision environment is waiting, or which amend the rules relating to the organisational structure and supervision of individuals with regard to those provisions which explicitly concern the new rules relating to the issue of qualification certificates, which will be issued for a limited period of time and are now unlimited, the extension of the validity of the qualification certificates and the withdrawal of the qualification certificates. The justification for such an amendment is the fact that the Act substantially amends the existing rules relating to the issue of certificates and the validity of the qualification certificates. Ensure a reasonable period of time to adapt the content of the rules on these rules as regards the validity and application of the qualification certificate will serve to ensure legal certainty and trust in the State and the rights it creates, especially as the new rules concern the rights and obligations of citizens. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club applies and asks for the approval of these amendments and laws as a whole, as this law is a favourable law and does not provide for financial consequences for either the state budget or the entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u143	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Stasiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform Club, as I said in my first speech, fully supports the proposed bill when it comes to the amendments proposed by a colleague from the PiS Club. We will examine their content and address them. Of course, as a Civic Platform club, we will definitely vote in favour of the whole bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u145	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on Technical Dosor, print No. 2924. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law presented concerns amendments to the Technical Dosore Act. This is a series of changes that were discussed in quite detail at the first reading of the committee meeting. And in connection with the presentation of the committee's report, we have two reflections. The first is related to the legislative process as such in general. In the course of the committee's work, a number of legislative amendments were focused on. And here we have such an appeal and such reflection that perhaps it would be worth agreeing these legislative amendments before proceeding over the Law in the Seym, because this is of course never a reason to be proud when the government project is, I would say, systematically improved and to a rather large extent. Although, as I say, these were legislative amendments that happen somewhere in every stage of this process. On the other hand, I also have a substantive comment and I would like to share this comment. It concerns one substantive amendment, which was presented by the Polish Liquid Gas Organisation at the meeting of the committee. The aim was to take into account conditionally the results of the tests performed by the operator with the necessary permissions or certificates. I would like to point out that the trust that the state should give its citizens and entrepreneurs should, of course, make it easier where it does not pose a threat to security as such. And I must say that the arguments put forward during the committee's meeting urge us to appeal to the Ministry for this and ask us to consider the possibility of adopting the amendment which has been tabled. If this amendment is affected, we will support it. As I said at first reading, this does not change the picture of the whole of this law. The Modern Posel Club will probably support this bill unless the amendments tabled during this reading in some way, I would say, categorically influence this project, which I do not anticipate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u147	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, I would like to say that we will support this project. We're all in favour of him. The Technical Supervision Authority is to ensure the safety of employees. The improvements that are foreseen there - some simplifications, the elimination of certain barriers, the recognition of documents issued by other technical supervision, because we have three types of surveillance - are going in the right direction, so we will support all these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u149	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u150	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the following question. I would ask you to clarify whether, as part of the planned changes to the technical scope to reduce unnecessary administrative barriers, an overview of the work and the existing functioning of the institutions carrying out these tasks is envisaged. I am particularly interested in whether the rules of administrative procedure will be clearly defined, so that the officials of the watchdog do not be tempted to interpret the rules of law in a broader way. In my contacts with my constituents, I received several signals that such practices took place, and entrepreneurs were completely powerless to interpret such practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u151	Thank you very much. And please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, Mr. Marcin Ociepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u152	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you so much for your speech. In answer to the Member's question, I would say that, in principle, we are constantly reviewing the way the Technical Supervision Office works, looking at these processes and looking for our role wherever we can improve this work. I can only invoke the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber two years ago, which has not revealed the irregularities that you are referring to. But I think we'll definitely meet here under another law. I would say that business law is a key answer to your question. Yeah, there's a huge job ahead of us, some mental change. Business law already regulates in many areas with many other laws - it refers to these laws - how an official or a public administration worker should refer to an entrepreneur or a citizen. And always the principles of presumption of honesty, the rules of interpretation of doubts in favour of entrepreneurs should appear everywhere at the work of every official, every office. What we are talking about today is written directly in the Law of Entrepreneurs, but the truth is that there is a huge mental change ahead of us and this change is ongoing. So all I can assure you is that the management of the Ministry and, I believe, also the President of the Technical Supervision Office are aware of what is involved with the spirit of the Business Law Act. We will try at every stage to pay attention to the services under our control to what they should do. I want to make it clear that we will, and we say this to our employees, reward those who help entrepreneurs and not disturb them, those who are looking for solutions to the problems of entrepreneurs, rather than those who multiply these problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u153	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws (prints No. 2903 and 2983). I ask Mrs Bernadet Krynicka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u154	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws, print No 2903. The Sejm at its 70th meeting on 23 October 2018 sent the above draft law to the Health Commission for its first reading. On 7 November, the Health Commission carried out its first reading and examined the project. Print Report No 2983. The draft law submitted by the government amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws concerns the possibility for persons pursuing the profession of physiotherapist to pursue the profession in the form of an individual professional practice, so-called. an office, individual at the place of call, individual in another entity's medical facility on the basis of a contract and group within the framework of a civil partnership, whether public or partnership. The proposed amendments are necessary because the current rules restrict the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist, preventing the pursuit of this profession within the framework of individual and group practice, as is the case in other medical professions such as doctors, dentists, nurses and midwives. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed regulation is necessary for the proper functioning of physiotherapists engaged in business activities not only as a therapeutic entity but also as an individual or group physiotherapist practice. In view of the positive effects of the proposed amendments, I propose that the High Sejm adopt the attached draft law together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u155	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law of 25 September 2015 on the profession of physiotherapist introduced provisions laying down rules for the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist as an independent medical profession. Today, this bill, the proposed changes, is another step in ordering the health system, they are focusing on the profession of physiotherapist. That's a very good step. It is a step that makes the availability of health services in the field of physiotherapy, rehabilitation much better. In a situation where society is ageing and when there is a huge demand for these services, ordering rules for the functioning and pursuit of this profession is a very good and very important step. That's why I want to thank the Ministry for this job, because it's really something that physiotherapists are waiting for. I think that another very important element, which I pay particular attention to, is the obligation to include practice in the national register kept by the National Chamber of Physiotherapists. All these solutions are very beneficial for the profession. They have a particularly positive dimension in the case of those who have worked in social services homes, educational institutions, for example. the type of SPA and after 5 years they really lost their right to pursue their profession, possibly they had to renew that right. These records make it possible for them to continue their profession in medical facilities. This is why the bill is very positive. She found recognition of members of all clubs in parliament. Of course, Law and Justice fully supports the provisions of this Law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform. I don't see your MP. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws, it is in print No 2903. At first, I would like to say how important and necessary the profession of physiotherapist is. Physiotherapists are people with medical education, specialists who are perfectly qualified and can help patients recover. I am therefore extremely surprised that until recently, the profession of physiotherapist was not regulated in Polish legislation, moreover, attempts to regulate it aroused considerable opposition from certain environments. Only three years ago, President Andrzej Duda signed the physio therapist's law. The law specified in detail who the physiotherapist is, what rights and obligations he has, what is the scope of his competence. However, the President's signature did not mean the conclusion of the physiotherapist case, as some groups were still negative for the proposed solutions and sought to maintain the status quo in the field of the physiotherapist profession. In February 2016, a group of Members of Law and Justice submitted a draft law proposing an extension of the entry into force of the Act signed by President Andrzej Duda for an additional 18 months. This bill would probably never enter into force. This project was postponed for an indefinite period of time. We remember the numerous manifestations of patients and physiotherapists before the Sejm. Thanks to the great determination of physiotherapists, the law, which they have been waiting almost 28 years, entered into force on the initially proposed date. Although physiotherapist regulations have been in force for more than two years, it turns out that some of the solutions introduced are detrimental to those practicing physiotherapists. This applies to regulations relating to the form of pursuit of the physiotherapist's profession. In view of the lack of possibility to pursue a profession in the form of individual and group professional practices, this situation is detrimental to physiotherapists who have provided health services in person, often only at the place of call or in another medicinal product. Today's bill aims to improve adverse rules which, in my view, are incompatible with the principles of equality and social justice. The major change proposed in the project concerns the introduction of a certain possibility - physiotherapists can pursue a profession in business not only as a therapeutic entity but also as an individual or group physiotherapist practice. This form of benefit reduces organisational requirements compared to medicinal products and is therefore easier to organise as well as much cheaper. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this law expects tens of thousands of physiotherapists, and in order not to cause any problems related to the loss of the right to pursue the profession, it is necessary that the rules enter into force at the latest on 29 November of this year, i.e. in 3 weeks' time. Therefore, on behalf of the physiotherapists and their patients, please take immediate steps in the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern. There's no envoy. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski. There isn't any either. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan gave her position in writing. Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I wanted to justify those colleagues who did not participate in the discussion here in this Chamber, because at the moment, there is a very turbulent discussion at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Health about the abolition of compulsory vaccinations, and therefore the discussion there is more fruitful, necessary and indeed very dynamic. I took the liberty of leaving that place for a few minutes to discuss here on time for my club. On behalf of my Civic Platform Club, I wanted to present a position on the draft law amending the Act on Medical Activity and some other laws. We have talked about this many times, that this law is very much needed and expected by the physiotherapists' environment. This was mentioned by the Minister as well as by the other participants in this debate. It introduces the possibility for physiotherapists - as for other professional groups such as doctors, dentists or nurses - to pursue the profession of physiotherapist in the form of individual and group professional practices. This bill allows, abolishes all these legal and economic barriers to the pursuit of the profession of physiotherapist. Mr Sachaiko has already talked about the history of physiotherapists coming to independence. Indeed, they have been looking forward to this work for a long time. Today physiotherapists are treated in a similar way to other medical professional groups and this also allows them to practice individual practices. I'm gonna sum up and get back to the vaccine discussion. I wanted to tell you that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u161	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the first question. Time - one and a half minutes. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u162	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, all that remains is to express satisfaction that physiotherapists have finally received a proposal for normal regulation of their profession. I would just like to ask if, in view of the fact that they have waited so long for this law, and the present one is supposed to enter into force at the last minute, the Ministry expects an information campaign to be sent to them? In a human way, I think they need a little support, making it easier for them to move through legal changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u164	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wouldn't want to talk too long about the validity of the physiotherapist's profession, because I talked about it during the club's office. There are various estimates, but in many medical units, this physical therapy provides 50/60% When it comes to success, achieving success in curing a person, so really this profession is extremely important. We've been training physiotherapists for many years. At the beginning we trained physiotherapists, later Bachelors and Masters of Physiotherapy, we have many educated people in Poland. Hence my question to the Minister: How many physiotherapists have we developed so far in Poland? Second question: How many of them have left and worked abroad? We have different estimates, but we often hear that up to 40% physiotherapists educated in Poland work outside the country. In my personal experience I can say, because I graduated from physiotherapy, that in fact this relationship is even worse, because not even half of my colleagues who finished medical studies with me work in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u165	Please, Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u166	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! How many current therapists have taken up their professional activities based on the current law on the profession of therapists? As we know, people educated in medical specialties are very much needed to serve - therapists with these specialties - and help people recover. I spoke to the people who protested before the Sejm to help them solve their problem because they were forgotten. They prayed for it, shouting loudly in front of the Sejm. In Poland, do people working in each of the professions, including in this, have to recant, organize protest actions to earn decent earnings, normally work, earn their living? Do people have to protest to arouse the government's interest in creating them really good working conditions? Is that supposed to be a good change? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u167	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u168	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to thank all Members of the various clubs very warmly for their positive opinions on this project. Indeed, it is expected by the physiotherapists' environment. The change was prepared at the Ministry of Health to meet all physiotherapists practicing in the field of health care, but not only in education or in the field of social policy. With regard to your individual doubts and questions, I would like to begin by correcting some of Mr Sachaika's statements, which stated that the possible absence of this change could cause the physiotherapists to lose their right to pursue their profession. There is absolutely no such threat. The absence of this regulation could cause problems with the profession, but the rights of the profession were not and are not at risk. As regards Mr Pyzik's question regarding information for the physiotherapists' environment, with the transmission of messages about this law, I would like to stress that this change, like all the changes concerning the pursuit of the physiotherapist's profession, which we are constantly agreeing with the physiotherapists' environment and with the professional self-government of the physiotherapists with whom we cooperate, is still discussed and agreed with this environment. Of course, information about this is provided through the media, but it is also committed by the professional self-government. Of course, the Minister of Health will give such information through the usual channels. Regarding the number of physiotherapists employed in the system, ladies and gentlemen, since we did not have physiotherapists registers and there was no law on local government, they were educated in various systems, so far we have not really had information about the number of physiotherapists practicing in Poland in the field of health care or in other areas. And it is this law that gives us the opportunity to record this phenomenon. It introduces the need to register individual practices, group practices, as well as to issue the right to pursue the profession by the physiotherapists' self-government, which gives us the opportunity to precisely balance the number of physiotherapists practicing in our country. Currently they are already in the register about 60,000. These are the physiotherapists who have been granted the right to pursue the profession, and it should be presumed that this number provides services because persons without the right to pursue the profession cannot pursue health care benefits. However, as for the number of physiotherapists who have left our country, neither do we have such data. As in this, no one keeps such records for other medical professions. In addition, physiotherapists, even those who have registered in a professional self-government, are not obliged to report the fact that they cease their occupation in the Republic of Poland. Therefore, we do not have such a register. This law makes it possible to assess all matters relating to the pursuit of the physiotherapist's profession, but also those relating to the quality of the services provided, under the responsibility of the professional self-government of physiotherapists, and on this basis it will be possible to assess possible needs with regard to changes in the training process, professional training or other working conditions and pay of physiotherapists. There was a question about pay. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the current government, the Minister of Health, has introduced regulations that guarantee a systematic increase in salaries in the area of health care for all workers, including physiotherapists. The Basic Minimum Compensation Act provides for an annual increase in basic salary for physiotherapists depending on their level of education. Those with higher medical education have the minimum basic salary indicated therein. Those with higher education or specialisation will also be automatically re-skilled to a different level of remuneration. As I said, this bill guarantees an annual systematic increase in healthcare salaries. As you may remember, because you voted in favour of this law, the government will spend almost PLN 16 billion in this type of regulation by 2021. These measures will affect the health care system, individual employees, professionals, including physiotherapists. On the other hand, there are, of course, ongoing discussions with the environments, representatives of trade union organisations or professional authorities on the conditions of the profession, including financing conditions. We're open. The Ministry of Health has a dialogue. Such discussions are also ongoing in the Social Dialogue Council, which is the body competent to settle remuneration issues. That's where the decisions are made. An example of this is the amendment of the law that I was talking about this year, which was due to the expectations of the environment. Finally, I would like to thank you very much for your positive opinion on this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u169	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Bernadet Krynicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u170	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As draftsman of the committee, I would like to thank the members of the committee for the smooth, substantive process of this law, and the Minister for a very well prepared bill that did not raise any controversy. I would also like to refer to my colleagues at Kukiz.15, who suggested that there were some strikes. There were no strikes. Only a letter from the National Chamber of Physiotherapists was received to process this law within the deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u171	Here you are, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to correct this, because she clearly listened to this... [[Clearly, clearly.]] ...as I said in my position, but you can always read the minutes of this sitting. I was talking about the strikes and protests that were during the attempt to postpone the entry into force of the bill signed by President Andrzej Duda. That was what I was talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u173	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on medicinal activities and some other laws, prints no. 2903 and 2983. For many years, physiotherapists have fought for recognition in the eyes of legislators, seeking to give this professional group equal importance to other medical professions and, above all, to recognise their profession as a profession of public trust. The result of these actions was the adoption of a law on the profession of physiotherapist, which defined in detail the requirements to be met by the person who has the right to perform this profession and thus strongly eliminated from the market medical services persons who do not have formal qualifications and who used the title of physiotherapist in their contacts with patients. The draft law on amending the law on medicinal activities and certain other laws, which is currently under review, complements the source rules. In fact, physiotherapists often perform their duties in many different institutions or even go to patients for home visits. Such a nature of the work necessitates the need for individual or group medical practice on similar terms as in other medical professions. The failure to approve these provisions may, for a time, be necessary to complete all the formalities, deprive many excellent professionals of their ability to pursue their profession. As a result, patients who use their services will suffer. I hope that the smooth work on the proposed amendment will help to avoid at least one of the crises that health protection has been experiencing lately. Blocking the possibility of engaging in the occupation of a group of nearly 30 thousand. In fact, physiotherapists would certainly reduce access to medical services, for which patients are waiting far too long. Modern, of course, supports the solutions contained in the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on Medical Activity and some other laws following the work on this project in committee. This project includes solutions to enable physiotherapists to pursue their profession independently in the form of individual and group professional practices which will be covered by the same rules on compliance with the conditions of practice as nursing practices, and introduces the obligation to include the practice in the register kept by the National Council of Physiotherapists. I am pleased that this important one for both patients and physiotherapists does not arouse any extreme emotions. That we can see beyond the party divisions its positive social and economic consequences. It is important that physiotherapists are fully available. As I mentioned in my previous position, current regulations, which provide that physiotherapists would have to meet requirements disproportionate to the size of their activities, mandatory for example. hospitals or large clinics could eliminate from the market many people who provide health services in person, often only at the place of call or in a treatment facility. Such provisions in the Act would hinder access to benefits and significantly extend the queues of patients waiting for physiotherapists services. So I have no doubt that the solutions contained in this amendment are expected and that they will serve Polish patients. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u176	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts (prints No. 2908 and 2968). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Procedure in Administrative Courts, Seym Printing No. 2908 and 2968. Both committees at their meeting on 6 November 2018 considered a government bill aimed at adapting the Polish legal order to the recommendations of the European Commission presented to the Polish Government under the infringement procedure in order to regulate matters relating to judicial control of visa decisions taken by consuls. Until now, there has been no such judicial review in Poland. The Court of Justice of the European Union held in its judgment of 13 December 2017 that Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 should apply. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Visa Code must be interpreted as meaning that, in connection with the content of the Article. 47 The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union requires the Member States of the Union to establish an appeal procedure against a decision refusing to issue a visa or a decision determining the revocation of a visa or the cancellation of a visa decision. The government project is fulfilling this obligation by introducing a judicial appeal procedure. The person concerned will have the opportunity to request a review of the case to the consul, and only after using this measure will he be able to lodge a complaint with the competent administrative court in whose jurisdiction the office serving the minister responsible for foreign affairs has its seat. This court of jurisdiction of the first instance will be the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw and, as appropriate, in the event of the lodging of an appeal at the second instance - the Supreme Administrative Court. At its meeting of 6 November this year. Two legislative amendments have been made: Article. 1 in points (a) and (b) of the Act and in Article. 2, as well as two substantives. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 introduced a 2-month period for the entry into force of the Act from the date of its publication. In the original text, that law was to enter into force on 1 January 2019. This change concerning the new vacathio legis also results in a second substantive amendment in the form of an amendment to the article. 3 and a new limit on the maximum expenditure of the State budget resulting from the entry into force of that law. This limit has been set for the years 2019 to 2028. High Izbo! Both committees are requesting the adoption of a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u178	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Waldemar Buda, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the Law amending the Law on Procedure before administrative courts. Ladies and gentlemen! This change, this amendment is extremely technical. It concerns the alignment of the rules currently in force with the recommendations of the European Commission, and these in turn result from the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Of course, there is no doubt that this visa procedure should be transparent and that all those involved should have a chance of a transparent appeal procedure. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I state that we fully support the proposals put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u181	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This project aims to implement European Union law. This Act is simply to align the Polish legal order with the European Commission's recommendations submitted to the Polish Government in the framework of the infringement procedure and the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Court held that Member States are required to establish an appeal procedure against a decision refusing to issue a visa, the detailed rules of which fall within the legal order of each Member State, while respecting the principles of equivalence and effectiveness. This procedure must, at a certain stage of the procedure, guarantee an appeal in the form of a court. The current visa rules for foreigners do not provide for legal standards guaranteeing a judicial remedy against a decision to refuse, revoke and annul a visa issued by a consul. Therefore, in order to avoid dispersal of various types of complaints, we will support this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u182	Thank you. Please, Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of Kukiz.15, I present the position concerning printing No. 2908 and second printing No. 2968. It is about the Law of the Court of Administrative Courts. In fact, the change is so obvious that it does not require any discussion, but I would like to draw attention to one thing. European Commission on the basis of Article. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union opened a procedure against Poland already in 2013. So I ask - it's a pity that there aren't any former ministers of the Civic Platform - what happened at the time... [[There's a minister from the Civic Platform.]] ...that we have seen the judgment of the Court of Justice of 21 December 2017 and only now has repaired the obvious thing so obvious that there is no more obvious. It's hard to appeal to a consul who made a negative decision, and treat it as the first instance, because it's just ridiculous. So if, in our legal order, the introduction of such obvious and so minor changes requires 5 years, I do not know if in the next 30 years we will see the recovery of the justice system, starting with the law on the prosecutor's office, through the national judicial school, the Supreme Court Act, the Law on the system of universal courts, which is still ill. So I think it's about time we started doing something seriously for the citizens, not just playing kindergarten. Thank you. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u184	Thank you very much. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present the position of the Modern Club regarding print number 2908. It is the Law of the Administrative Courts. The draft law provides for a revision of the provisions of the Law of 30 August 2002 concerning the control of visa decisions by the consul. The government proposal proposes to add a regulation which guarantees the applicant to submit an appeal against the decision of the consul to the competent administrative court on the issue of visas. Discussion of the project is also a consequence of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. On 13 December 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European The Court held that the procedure for issuing visas by a consul at a certain stage of the procedure should guarantee an appeal to the court. The European Commission informed that, in the event of failure to act on the Polish side, a decision would be taken to initiate the infringement procedure. I believe that this is the reason for this urgency in the adoption of this proposal. I would just like to add that the draft law provides for a revision of the regulation concerning the control of visa decisions by the consul by guaranteeing the possibility of bringing an appeal before the court in cases of refusal of visas. Until now, the administrative courts have not been competent to issue visas by consuls, with the exception of visas issued to a foreigner who is a member of the family of a citizen of a Member State of the European Union. In fact, this project is intended to extend the scope of the cognition of administrative courts also to Schengen visa cases. Therefore, the voivodship administrative courts will have jurisdiction in cases of complaints about refusal of a visa, the revocation or cancellation of Schengen visas and the activities of the consul in this respect. The projector assumes that the Voivodeship Administrative Court in Warsaw will be competent in these cases because of its experience. The proposal proposes a solution whereby a party cannot exercise its right to appeal to the administrative court, but before submitting an application to the court, it must submit a request to the consul for review. And here we should add that there are four pages of this act, namely the Consul of the Republic of Poland, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the applicant for Schengen visas, as well as the Voivodship Administrative Court. Looking generally at all these records, which are in fact intended to safeguard the transparency of issuing visas, modern is in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u186	Thank you, Member. I do not see Mr Krzysztof Paszik. Let's get to the questions. Question time - 1.5 minutes. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I kindly ask you to clarify a point. Does the introduction of an appeal procedure to the Court of Justice for refusal of a visa open the legal path so that its judgment can be appealed to the European Court of Human Rights? The current state of the European Union institutions instrumentally used to fight politically against governments of countries whose societies remain skeptical of aggressive attempts to impose the ideology of multiculturalism raises serious concerns. Poland cannot, under any circumstances or at any price, lose its exclusive control over who has the right to come to Poland and under what conditions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u188	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u189	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I'm directing my inquiry to the designer about the article. 1 point 6 of the Act. Namely, the content of the provision refers to the version currently in force, but from 31 May 2019 there will be a different content of that provision. Will you adapt this provision to the rules in force? We're talking about a novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u191	Thank you. That's my question. In the committee there was a raised case of the costs of proceedings before the courts. It is expected that there will be approx. 1,300 cases like this. The subject was moved, but there's basically nothing about it in the project. Is this project going to be somehow... Because I'd like to know, for example, if there's an increase in the number of jobs planned. Representatives of the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw and the Supreme Administrative Court raised the question that it would take about 3.5 million in this respect. In fact, this topic has been postponed, but later we do not see it either, at least for the time being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u192	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u193	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In answer to the question concerning the application to courts, I understand the European Union possibly to the European Court of Human Rights - it will be a procedure such as in other cases decided by administrative courts. As far as the question is concerned, of course, if the new rules are adopted, the law will also have to be adapted to them. As regards the question concerning the courts, the judicial costs in the case of the Supreme Administrative Court, the point is that, since we are talking about amending the original wording of the law by postponeing the date of its entry into force, we are talking about at least two months of delaying the entry into force of this law. If we add to this the procedure before the consul, which will first have to take place, as mentioned in the speeches of the Member State - the first request to the consul, then possibly the second request to the consul and only then the request to the court - it is difficult to say at the moment, when the first cases appear, will be dealt with by the administrative courts, actually by the Warsaw administrative court. Therefore, it is also difficult to estimate what costs will be at the moment, because we do not know the scale or time limits since these cases will appear in the Warsaw court. This is why this is the case, not the other wording of these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u194	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on proceedings before administrative courts, print No. 2908. This proposal assumes that the decision to refuse, revoke or revoke a Schengen visa may be brought before the Voivodship Administrative Court. The draft amendment was prepared to adapt the Polish legal order to the ruling of the Court of Justice of the EU and the recommendations of the European Commission to the Polish government. In 2017, the Council The Court pointed out that Member States, in the light of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, are required to establish the right to appeal to the court against decisions to refuse, revoke or revoke a Schengen visa. The infringement procedure was initiated in 2013 and the European Commission did not accept the argument of the Polish Government that the Polish rules, providing for the possibility of requesting a review of the case by the consul, are in line with EU law. According to the draft complaint against the decisions of the consuls, he is to consider the WSA in Warsaw, which, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, gathered the greatest experience in these matters and developed a common judicial line. In the proceedings before the Voivodship Administrative Court on Schengen visas for foreigners, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is to conduct proceedings for the consul. The consul will, in turn, be required to draw up a description of the facts, indicate the relevant circumstances of the case and to order the case file and to draw up a preliminary position on the complaint. The Consul will prepare a set of documentation and a description of the facts of the case within approx. It shall forward the file to the Foreign Minister without undue delay. The Minister shall refer the complaint lodged through the Consul to the NSA together with the file of the case and the reply to the complaint within 60 days of its receipt by the Consul. It was assumed that only after exercising the right to review the case by the consul would the party be able to lodge a complaint with the provincial administrative court. If the party fails to submit a request for review, it shall not be entitled to lodge a complaint with the NSA. According to analyses by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a decision concerning the Schengen visa is amended in approximately 30% of applications for review after the applicant has submitted additional information or documents. The aim is to ensure that the audit carried out by the WSA concerns only those cases where the complainant had the opportunity to present his arguments at an earlier stage of the proceeding and to exercise that right. High Izbo! In accordance with applicable legal, Polish and European standards, everyone deserves the right to complain and appeal against decisions of state authorities. In accordance with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, a Member State is required to establish an appeal procedure against a decision refusing to issue a visa whose detailed rules fall within the legal order of each Member State, while respecting the principles of equivalence and effectiveness. This procedure must guarantee a judicial appeal at a certain stage of the procedure. Today's project will adapt to these standards the procedure for applying for a Schengen visa in Polish diplomatic institutions abroad. In view of this, we welcome him, we consider him worthy of further work in committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u196	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on the Government's draft law amending the act on combating doping in sport (prints No 2829 and 2976). I ask Mr Luke Schreiber to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism on the government bill amending the act on combating doping in sport. This project was examined at the first reading of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism on 4 October, then addressed to a specially established subcommittee, and yesterday, on 7 November this year, was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism. High Izbo! In addition to a number of editorial comments, three amendments have been tabled and three amendments have been voted, except that these amendments are indeed, in fact, editorial amendments. This is, among other things. establishing that membership of the board of agencies ceases due to resignation or death. So there is this case of resignation, with the fact that it has to be done on request. Also a technical change of name, one can say, and one more amendment. I am pleased that, in the course of the committee's work, parliamentarians from all groups have basically taken the same position. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism recommends the High House to give a positive opinion on this draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u198	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position towards the government's draft law on amending the act on combating doping in sport. High Izbo! As we have the opportunity to debate this project in the plenary room for the first time, I would like to point out that the above. The aim of the bill is to establish the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, to define the principles of financial management of the laboratory and the principles of financing anti-doping analyses of players within the framework of the national research programme carried out by the Polish Anti-Doping Agency, as well as the establishment of the Player's Passport Management Unit. High Izbo! I would like to point out that this bill, this amendment prepared by the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, is mainly linked to the fact that it is to be one of the pillars of the national doping system in sport, and this anti-doping laboratory is accredited by the World Anti-Doping Agency. Such an entity in Poland is the Department of Anti-Doping Research of the Institute of Sport - the State Research Institute. It is one of 32 accredited laboratories, one of the 28 currently authorised to analyse worldwide. I think that no one in this room needs to be convinced that what follows the actions of the current management of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, as well as, I hope, the entire High House, is to take such actions as are intended to help to carry out the best and most effective course of action, as well as in a certain sense the ruthless fight against doping in sport, because this is undoubtedly a thing that kills or can kill any kind of sport discipline. High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the draft law on amending the act on combating doping in sport assumes the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory, the entity responsible for conducting anti-doping analyses of physiological samples of players. According to the assumptions adopted in the proposed act, the laboratory would act as a national legal entity. The draft law also sets out the tasks of the newly appointed entity, which include carrying out the activities necessary to maintain accreditation, as well as carrying out anti-doping analyses of physiological samples of players and animals. In addition to this basic, it can be said that the laboratory's activities would also be to carry out toxicological analyses, including in cooperation with the police, courts, prosecutors' offices, Customs and Scarb Service, the Chief Sanitary Inspectorate, the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspectorate, hospitals, research institutes and the Military Gendarmery. I think, High Izbo, that all of us in this room will be united by this project and that it does not arouse, as the work in committee pointed out, any controversy among parliamentarians. I therefore, of course, state that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill and vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Korol, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u201	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Platform club on the draft law amending the act on combating doping in sport. Doping for many years has been the greatest nightmare not only of Polish sport, but also of world sport, and by the cheaters who apply it, very often it is said about all players who get to their best results honest and hard work. The fight against doping is one of the most important challenges of modern sport. Unfortunately, those who use doping are still half a step ahead of those who are trying to catch them. They are constantly inventing new methods, new means of fraud, because the vision of getting big money quickly is more tempting than hard and systematic work. The World Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, established in 1999 is coordinating the fight against the use of illicit chemicals and the use of prohibited methods. The Agency is working for individual sports federations in the field of education and research on the implementation of anti-doping testing procedures. It publishes a list of prohibited substances and methods every year, the use of which is prohibited in sport competition. This is a list of prohibited methods and substances. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland is one of 32 countries in the world where the WADA-accredited anti-doping laboratory operates. In order to maintain this accreditation, it was necessary to amend the act on combating doping in sport. One of the most important changes that the bill brings is the separation of the Department of Anti-Doping Research from the structure of the Institute of Sport - the State Research Institute. Why is such a change proposed? A group of experts worked for WADA, which developed new international standards for laboratories. The main objective of this group will be to strengthen financial and operational independence. Hence the above change. Another important change is the change in the financing of POLADA. As of 2019 POLADA will receive funds for testing physiological samples, and the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory will receive funds for WADA accreditation and two targeted grants. Previously, money for accreditation was received by a state research institute. There will also be a Player's Passport Management Unit operating in accordance with WADA standards at the laboratory. Another major, important change is changing the POLADA task directory. It will be able to conduct business activities, provide services for new entities, not only for Polish sports unions. Another change is the change in the qualification requirements for controllers. They will not be able to be members of Polish sports unions. I think these are the most important changes. The Civic Platform Club is in favour of the introduction of the above mentioned. changes and will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u203	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft amendment of the law assumes the establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory in Warsaw. It will mainly carry out anti-doping analyses of physiological samples of players in accordance with the standards of the World Anti-Doping Agency. It will act as a state legal person. This solution is required by the World Anti-Doping Agency. The laboratory's tasks will include:: carry out the activities necessary to maintain the accreditation of the World Anti-Doping Agency and the accreditation of the national accreditation body for compliance with the ISO standard in research laboratories; carry out anti-doping analyses of physiological samples of players and animals; carry out research projects to combat doping in sport and national and international cooperation on research and development. In addition to its core activities, the laboratory will also be able to carry out toxicological analyses, including in cooperation with the police, the courts, prosecutors, the Customs and Scarb Service, the Chief Sanitary Inspector and the Chief Pharmaceutical Inspector. She will also cooperate with hospitals, research institutes, medical universities and the Military Gendarmery. The bodies of the newly established laboratory will be the director and council. The Director will appoint and cancel the Minister for Sport and Tourism, after consulting the Council. His term of office will last five years. Candidates for this position will be selected by means of an open and competitive recruitment carried out by the Minister. The members of the Council will also be appointed and dismissed by the Minister, but their term of office will last four years. The main revenue of the laboratory will be subsidies from the state budget, but may also be EU funds and funds from national and international research projects and programmes. The Player Passport Management Unit, operating in accordance with the World Anti-Doping Agency standards, will be able to operate at the lab. In principle, new solutions are to enter into force on 1 January of the following year. This is one of the projects... It is likely that the vote will bring 100 percent compliance in the Chamber. I don't think there's anyone here who would vote against this project. The project raises no doubts. Of course, as I said earlier, the Kukiz Club will support this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Ruciński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u205	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the draft law submitted by the government on amending the act on combating doping in sport. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the problem of the broad understanding of doping. This phenomenon has been happening for many years. With the progress of medicine and competition control research, the development of new, previously unknown drugs, which are not subject to a legal ban, is also progressing. This artificial improvement of physical fitness among players not only introduces inequality of opportunity, violates the principles of healthy and equal competition, but also destroys the beauty of sport, not to mention the still unknown late manifestations of the application of these measures. The establishment of the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory as an independent state institution will not only change the entire structure of the laboratory and the scope of its financing. The perception of this unit by the World Anti-Doping Agency will also change. This will allow us to keep a recommendation on the list of laboratories accredited by WADA. For now we are one of 32 accredited laboratories and one of the 28 authorised to conduct anti-doping analyses in the world. Maintaining this position is essential in order to continue to be able to participate actively in shaping world anti-doping policy. Any tasks that are intended to maintain the accreditation of the World Anti-Doping Agency are also important for us due to the 1989 Strasbourg Anti-Doping Convention and the Paris International Convention against Doping in Sport of 19 October 2005. Both of these documents oblige us to take active action in this area. Apart from the scientific importance of the laboratory: the establishment of this institution is also a way for our country to improve its position within the interstate anti-doping structures. Poland will thus be entitled to speak at meetings of the World Anti-Doping Agency. The Modern Posel Club supports the government's proposed amendments to this law. We will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Eugeniusz Krópotek, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First, a few such general observations. As a matter of fact, since the dawn of mankind, man has been using drugs. In the past, in order to add to yourself an animosity in battlefields or knights' tournaments, but when 100 years ago, world competition in sport began, some of these players participated in this competition to win to improve their results when there was no willpower, when their physical abilities were lacking, these people, these players, reached for the prohibited means. And just as one of the previous speakers has said, we are always - and this is still today - one step behind those who use illegal means. Also, more and more money in sports has caused players, coaches - not all, I stress - to start taking risks: and it will be successful. Of course, our role is to make it less and less effective so that this situation does not get completely out of our control. This, I believe, is also served by the action of the World Anti-Doping Agency and, consequently, by this proposal to amend legislation in this area. The parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party supports this bill. I just want to draw attention to one statement in the explanatory memorandum. Well, on the first page of the justification we say that these recommendations of WADA will probably enter into force on January 1, 2019, while our law is to enter into force on January 1, 2019. Therefore, we want to decide ours, but I understand that this is the need of the moment, not knowing exactly what the final decisions of the World Anti-Doping Agency will be. And maybe it will come to us in a short time in 2019, once these new requirements have been approved, to make some revision of this law. But for now, there's nothing to do, just to make this bill pretty quick. But once again, as long as there is competition in sport, very often with so much money, so unfortunately we will have to deal with the use of illegal measures. Because, as you know, until recently we have not talked about the use of doping in sport of disabled people, and today we are also dealing with doping in sport of disabled people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u208	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list of people asking questions? I can't see. Then I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the most important assumptions of the bill is the separation from the structure of the Institute of Sports of the organizational unit - the Department of Anti-Doping Research. A new state legal entity will therefore be created. This is in line with the assumptions of the World Anti-Doping Agency, WADA, which indicated, for example, a conflict of interest in the subject matter of the Anti-Doping Research Facility and the Institute, whose objective is to optimise performance in professional sport. My question concerns the accreditation of the lab. Until now, the Institute's structure has such accreditation. The proposal of the new standards prepared by WADA suggests that such accreditation could be lost, for example because of the argument of conflict of interest. In any case, the new entity - the Polish Anti-Doping Laboratory - will also have to obtain, as it seems, new accreditation. Was there an analysis of whether this could be the case? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in a liquid way, ensuring continuity of possession...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u210	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u211	...an accredited entity, or can Poland remain without an accredited laboratory for a period of time? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u212	I would ask you to ask Mr Simon Ziółkowski, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we found out that once again the act on combating doping in sport would be procedated, I was hoping that this law would go a little further, and that it would not be just the alignment of our law with the recommendations of WADA. My main point is that cheerleaders in sports are cheaters, these are players who take away those who compete honestly in the world, the possibility of standing on the podium and listening to Mazurka Dąbrowski. The Polish Olympic Committee has already gone a little further in its regulations and introduced such a principle that if after a few years - and now such things also happen - the player is taken away a medal, he is obliged to return the financial prize he received from the Polish Olympic Committee. Unfortunately, there is still no such thing in the regulations of the Ministry of Sport. The players for medals receive quite large bonuses, but they are not then returned to the state budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u214	Thank you. The question is now asked by Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Latin motto of the Olympic movement is: citius, altius, fortius, which means: faster, higher, harder. However, some try to achieve these goals in a dishonest way, instead of hard work - cheating. A whole group of anti-doping institutions was created to combat the effects of this extremely nasty quality. The wicked actions of these people are ahead of time. We're one step behind. There's money working here. Therefore, my question is: What impact does this law have on the prevention of future behaviour? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u216	Thank you. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism of Mr Jan Widera to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the questions of your fellow Members... I'll answer the first question. As far as accreditation is concerned, if there is no decision to introduce new rules, new requirements next week, we will have to introduce these changes sooner or later anyway. On the other hand, it will not be necessary to apply for accreditation again, for new accreditation if there is the same equipment that the laboratory has been working on so far, the same staff. The accreditation will simply be maintained. There's no danger that you'll have to apply for accreditation again. As far as prizes are concerned, we actually award prizes for achievements under the rules of the Ministry of Sport and Tourism and today there is no possibility of withdrawing these prizes, but we believe that we can lean on this and really consider whether in the future we do not bring back the funds that the athlete has received for the sporting achievements he has obtained in a dishonest way. And as for the last question - according to our law, this case will not apply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u218	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act (prints 2769 and 2894). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present a report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications on the Senate bill amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, Seym Printing No. 2769 and 2894. The Commission considered this draft law at its meeting on 4 October 2018. It's so-called. Judgemental initiative of the Senate, related to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 October 2017, sygn. Act SK 31/15, finding non-compliance with Article. 778 Code of Civil Procedure, Art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It was a so-called judgment. range. The Court held that in its Article. 778 The Civil Procedure Code, in so far as it allows the court to issue a enforcement title against a public company, a declaration of enforceability against a former partner of that company, who is no longer a partner at the time of the initiation of proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against a public company, is incompatible with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution - the right to court, and Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution - the point is that the law must not close anybody's judicial path to the investigation of violated freedoms or rights. In the statement of reasons for the judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that the former shareholder did not take part in the judicial exploratory proceedings but only in a limited manner in the clause procedure which is already pending after the finality of the judgment was established. Current content of the article. 778 The Civil Procedure Code reads: The title of enforcement issued against a public company, partner company, limited partnership or limited partnership, the court gives a declaration of enforceability against a partner who is liable without limitation by all his assets for the company's obligations if the execution against the company proves ineffective, as well as when it is evident that the execution will be ineffective. The Senate amendment in the article. 778 c.p.c. the following second sentence is added: This does not apply to a person who was no longer a partner at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the company. The draft law contains a transitional provision in Article. 2 which was supplemented at the committee meeting on 4 October 2018 by the addition of the words "and unfinished'. This is about proceedings initiated and not completed. Before the date of entry into force of the amended law, the text of the article shall apply. 778 Code of Civil Procedure - as in the novel. The period of vacathio legis is 14 days from the date of publication of the law, i.e. it is a minimum period. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u220	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Senate committee on the bill amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, prints 2769 and 2894. As the rapporteur has already said, in his broad presentation of the scope of the amendment, the draft implements the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and gives the possibility, indeed, at this moment, of full access to the judicial path of the former shareholder of the public company, which has so far been impossible. Based on the article. 778 the court could also issue a declaration of enforceability against the former shareholder of the company. At the moment, by adding it to the article. The second sentence reads: "This does not apply to a person who, at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the company, was no longer a partner of the company, that protection of the former partner is possible, may defend himself by judicial means against, in his view, unjustified claims of creditors. In this situation, considering that this Senate project, first of all, executes the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, secondly, it is in the interest of former partners who will thus gain the possibility of judicial defence, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u222	Thank you. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u223	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the committee's report on the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure Act. In principle, this proposal aims to bring the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, in which the Tribunal stated that Article. 778, in so far as it allows the court to grant the enforcement title issued against the company a manifest declaration of enforceability against the former shareholder of that company which is not already a shareholder at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the public company, is incompatible with the constitution, i.e. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. At first reading, of course, we were in favour of directing the project to work in committee, but we had already raised some reservations. And we have to admit that we have a problem with this project, because on the one hand we are aware that it is implementing the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but on the other hand, as we have pointed out in the work of the committee, it seems to us that we also need appropriate changes in the area of material law to ensure consistency of the rules, because it is the provisions of substantive law that introduce the principle of subsidiary liability of shareholders. This project in this shape will, on the one hand, in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Code, be able to claim the satisfaction of our claims, and on the other hand, after changes to the Civil Procedure Code, this possibility is taken away from us. Therefore, when we see here the need to amend other provisions, the need to clarify them, we need to think deeply about whether to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u224	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Kukiz.15, I present our position on printing no. 2894. The idea of this solution was to exclude the possibility of applying the article. 778 in relation to persons who could not defend their rights at the stage of the exploratory procedure, since they no longer had the right or the obligation to conduct company affairs in relation to current shareholders. And at first glance, it would seem that this is the right thing to do. The consequence of this change, as well as the judgment of the Constitutional Court, was to extend the scope of this project also to another type of companies. But as a man thinks about it more deeply and we will return to the judgment of 2009, III CZP 52/09, which was, as if the basis for this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Supreme Court expressed in it the view that Article. 778 c.p.c. allows the enforcement title to be given a declaration of enforceability against the former partner if he has resigned from the company or the company has been deleted from the register, provided only that the title covers the obligations of the company for which he was responsible. And I have to say that I have a doubt here, because, of course, we can say that a creditor can claim satisfaction through civil proceedings against a partner who is no longer a partner, but let's just say that this is also a gateway to creating a certain circulation of bankruptcy reports: I am no longer in this company, and to avert liability. Therefore, the danger is that the project will also cause the so-called. fictitious or combination bankruptcy, and we must have one thing in mind - and it seems to me that the PiS here does not notice - that what else is a civil sentence, on the basis of which the obligation must be covered, and what else is its execution. Well, we all know very well that receiving a judgment is not equivalent to receiving money. And that gives us time, opportunity, and we open the other gate. So that I think we will still have to think about this too, because there are great doubts here that this will not lead to abuse. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u226	Thank you. Mr Pampuch made his statement in writing. I would therefore like to ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, PSL - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats to present our position on the report of the committee on the Senate bill amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, prints 2769 and 2894. As my previous speakers pointed out earlier, the aim of the project is to align the system of law with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 October 2017 and the subject of the review was the application of the Article. 778 of the Civil Procedure Code to a person who is not a shareholder of a public company at the time of the initiation of proceedings against that company which ended with the issuance of the enforcement title against the company to which the title was subsequently added on the basis of Article. 778 c.p.c. a clause against such a person. And here it is also appropriate to agree with my previous speakers that this is actually going towards the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is doubtful whether this regulation actually covers and protects the interests of the persons concerned. These doubts are also present in our club, which is why we are not sure that this regulation will be supported, so the club will most likely abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u228	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of your parliamentarians like to join the list? [[Yes.]] You're welcome, sir. I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Paweł Bańkowski, the Civic Platform. There's no envoy. So, please, Mr Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u229	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u230	One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u231	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u232	One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u233	Okay, Marshal, I'll make it. Minister, I have a question. Since we often deal with the implementation of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, which states that certain provisions are incompatible with the Constitution, that legislative amendments should be made, the question is: How many today are such judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal which oblige us to change the rules, and why do we not do so in one step, so as to simply execute all these judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, according to the Polish Constitution, are final and undisputable in no way, so that we simply do not have to meet each time to correct just one rule? Is it not possible to do this, let's say, more holistically, in certain areas, in civil law or criminal law or other codes or other laws, so that we simply have order and so that we can work more efficiently? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u234	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, I can't give you precise data from memory, so called to the board. After consulting the Director's judge, a number of such cases would probably be found, on which work is at different stages, in the area of civil law itself. I do not particularly imagine - it seems that from a legislative point of view there would be serious reservations - to create some kind of super-law that would go through civil law, criminal law and a few other areas and settle everything. There has not been such practice so far, in order to exercise collectively the obligation to enforce judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal even within one section of the law. I can commit to looking at the situation, but of course this is the process. not to be executed, to finish it once and well, because the tribunal works all the time, gives further judgments and from time to time they are judgments declaring that certain solutions adopted by the legislator are not in conformity with the constitution. Therefore, there will always be a question - even if we have two or three judgments to implement, which will require a change within the same legal department, or perhaps even the same law, it is also a matter of time - whether we should wait and refrain from working. We should not wait and hold back, because the rulings of the tribunal must be carried out as soon as possible. If there are such legislative possibilities, I declare that this type of decision will be taken, but we would not want such collective enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal to slow this process down. Then we'll probably always be looking for the best medium. This is the only way I can answer the High House today, because I do not have precise data. We did not expect such a question in the context of the project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u236	Thank you. The discussion is closed. [[Modern Posel Club]] [[Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club, I am honoured to present my position on the Senate draft law amending the Civil Procedure Code Act, print no. 2769 and 2894.]] [[The draft is intended to implement the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 October 2017, in which the non-compliance with the Constitution of the Article was declared. 778 of the Civil Procedure Code, in so far as it allows the court to grant the enforcement title issued against the company a manifest declaration of enforceability against the former partner of that company which is not already a partner at the time of the initiation of the proceedings in the case in which the enforcement title was issued against the public company.]] [[It is clear that Members of the Modern Parliament will support the law implementing the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment into the Polish legal system. It should be stressed, however, that the projectors decided to go on the line of least resistance and unintelligibly propose only an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure. Unfortunately, the impact of the proposed solution on the system of civil and commercial law has been completely ignored.]] [[Rules of substantive law, among others. Article 2 33 § 2 of the Civil Code, introduces the principle of subsidiary liability of shareholders of personal companies. Leaving these provisions unchanged and adopting the draft submitted will lead to differences between substantive and procedural law. The first guarantees the creditor that he can claim satisfaction. In turn, changes to the Code of Civil Procedure will lead to the taking away of this possibility.]] [[We therefore believe that a systematic amendment to the article should be made. 33 § 2 of the Civil Code or the relevant provisions of the Commercial Companies Code. However, as I mentioned earlier, Members of Modern Affairs will vote in favour of the proposal currently being submitted.]] We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's Draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016 (prints No 2879 and 2972). I ask Mr Czesław Sobierajski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u237	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs a report on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016, prints No 2879 and 2972. The draft law deals with the creation of a framework and principles for the joint action of the various countries to protect the ozone layer, including amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the ozone layer. And a few details. The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer, drawn up on 16 September 1987, is the consequence of the two years previously drawn up Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer. Poland ratified the Montreal Protocol in 1990. The obligations arising from the Montreal Protocol for developed countries, including Poland, mainly concern the total reduction of production and consumption of a number of substances that deplete the ozone layer, so-called. controlled substances of which approximately 40 are present. In addition, the provisions of the Protocol introduce mechanisms for market surveillance of controlled substances in the form of annual reporting and licensing of imports and exports of controlled substances, including mixtures containing them. In Polish law, the above issues are comprehensively regulates the Act of 15 May 2015 on substances that deplete the ozone layer and on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases. The amendments from Kigali were agreed at a meeting of the parties to the Kigali Protocol in Rwanda in October 2016 and will enter into force on 1 January 2019. This is another revision of the Montreal Protocol. All the amendments previously adopted have been ratified by Poland. The Kigali amendments have introduced the following additions to the protocol. The list of controlled substances has been extended by 19 substances commonly used as substitutes for ozone-depleting substances. Schedules for the reduction of HFCs have been introduced for developed countries and developing countries. The obligation to submit annual reports to the Ozone Secretariat for reports on the production, import and export of HFC substances has been extended. The obligation to import and export controlled substances to HFC substances has been extended. The withdrawal of HFCs in developing countries was covered by the Multilateral Protocol Fund. It should be stressed that Poland, as a Member State of the European Union, fulfils all the obligations relating to the withdrawal of HFCs resulting from European Union legislation, which are already more restrictive than those arising from the Kigali amendments, because ratification of amendments will not result in any legislative or additional obligations for entrepreneurs for Poland. The committees therefore request the adoption of the law unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u238	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of Law and Justice vis-à-vis the Government's bill of ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. The Kigali amendments to the Montreal Protocol provide climate protection against hydrofluorocarbons, i.e. gases with a strong greenhouse effect, and are used to reduce their production and consumption. These gases, when entering the atmosphere, cause climate change, contributing to global warming and are far more harmful than carbon dioxide. They are used, among others. in refrigerators, air conditioners, solvents and aerosols. The current system of international cooperation on the protection of the ozone layer is based on the 1985 Vienna Convention and the 1987 Montreal Protocol, which concerned the withdrawal from production and consumption of substances threatening the ozone layer. Poland joined the Vienna Convention in 1990. We ratified all amendments to the Montreal Protocol in addition to the amendments on ozone-depleting substances in Montreal in September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. The amendments from Kigali were adopted at the XXVIII Meeting of the Parties to the Montreal Protocol when proposals were negotiated for the introduction into the Montreal Protocol of a timetable for phasing out the use and production of these gases. On behalf of Poland, the agreed position within the European Union was presented by the European Commission and the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The purpose of the amendments from Kigali to the Montreal Protocol is to continue Poland's participation in the Montreal Protocol and to enable the European Union to join the amendments from Kigali. The main amendment introduced by the amendments to the Montreal Protocol is the extension of the list of substances subject to the Montreal Protocol. The changes resulting from the amendments from Kigali have already been included in European Union law and Polish law together with the implementing acts, so their ratification does not require additional legislative action, nor does they have any social or economic impact on Poland, as their provisions are now being fulfilled under the existing national and European Union legislation. Ratification of amendments from Kigali by the Polish government will strengthen our credibility in the European Union and in the global forum in the field of ozone and climate protection cooperation. This is particularly important in 2018, when Poland covers the Presidency 24. Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention [[♪ The bell ♪]] on climate change COP24, and this will certainly contribute to strengthening the positive image of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u240	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u241	Law and Justice have a positive opinion on the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u242	Mr Jerzy Borowczak, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u243	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating the Environmental Protection Act, but the adoption of this draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016, is, which is rarely the case in this House, a simple non-controversial formality. The ratification of the amendments from Kigali has no economic or social implications for Poland, as all the provisions contained in these amendments are already in national and EU law. We can feel moderate contentment because the ozone layer over Antarctica is regenerating, which can be seen as a result of mankind's collective efforts. It is also encouraging to analyse and calculate scientists that by the end of this century the ozone hole is to disappear. However, humanity, including Poland in particular, faces many challenges in terms of protecting climate change. I mention that we should be aware that the ratification of international agreements and treaties alone will not change the most serious threat we face. We have enough knowledge and many instruments to counter these threats and thus protect our devastated environment, but we do not have enough determination to change real action to be more effective in protecting nature and thus the future of future generations. On the occasion of this law, in agreement with the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of amendments to the Montreal Protocol, around which there is no controversy, we should reflect and revise our policy in this area. In 197 countries, 58 have already ratified these amendments. Our big conference in Katowice, the climate summit, is coming up. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform supports this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u244	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 in relation to the draft law, which introduces amendments from Kigali to the so-called. the Montreal Protocol. This project doesn't cause any controversy. As regards the protection of the ozone layer or the prevention of environmental damage, we have general agreement in the plenary room, especially since these amendments, which are envisaged, were adopted in Kigali, in fact in Poland already being implemented through the existing legislation, as pointed out by my honourable speakers. In view of the above, the Kukiz Club will of course recommend the adoption of this bill to its Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u246	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Lieder made her statement in writing. Let's move on to asking questions. Please, Mr Grabowski, ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the fight against the ozone hole and the fight for environmental protection, I have a question as to whether the government really provides for whether the Minister is able to answer the question that you may possibly anticipate in the near future in order to make Poland a good example in the fight for the clean environment. And then there's the question... Although this may be more a question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I would like to point out to the Minister that it may be worthwhile for the Government of the Republic of Poland to make efforts to increase the number of countries that have ratified the Montreal Protocol, because we can take care of environmental protection, we can make sure that the ozone hole is as small as possible and, nonetheless, if most countries have not ratified it, it can actually prove to be a fight against windmills. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u248	Thank you. The answer to the question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment, Mr Michał Kurtyka.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u249	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your questions. Indeed, in the near future, the government is taking up the huge challenge of organising a climate summit in Katowice, for which I am directly responsible. Poland will host such a summit for the third time on Polish soil, and this demonstrates our commitment to shaping global environmental and planetary policies, and in this case the success of the Montreal Protocol, these successive amendments actually allow us to say that we are on a good trajectory, on the right path, we are getting better results. As Poland, we are also very active, our delegation is now also present at the summit in Ecuador, where we are discussing the future fate of this convention and possibly subsequent protocols, with the number of countries that ratify it changing dynamically. The Member was gracious to say that this is 58 countries, at this point we already have 59 countries. Therefore, it is a very dynamic process which causes this amendment to enter into force from 1 January 2019. As far as the government is concerned, I would like to remind you that we are carrying out unprecedented measures to protect air. This is the Clean Air programme, which mobilises over 100 billion PLN over the next 10 years and which aims to make not only cleaner the air that we will breathe, because the same particles that are emitted and which pollute the air, have the potential for the greenhouse effect, and so we have this double effect, both environmental and climatic through this programme. A very important vector of our policy is the promotion and development of clean transport, the whole electromobility project based on the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. The Low Carbon Transport Fund, which will enter into force next year, will mobilise over PLN 11 billion over the next 10 years. It's designed to make the air we breathe, especially in the city centers... I'll remind you, in a city like Warsaw 60% emissions come from transport emissions. We'll try to limit them. Finally, as far as the last component is concerned, we are working on the issue of distributed energy. This relates, of course, to the topic of clean air, to the topic of energy efficiency of buildings, thermal insulation, but also to the possibility of installing in buildings, whether it's heat pumps, whether it's furnaces that meet the latest ecological requirements. So that this range of activities that are being undertaken is very comprehensive, long-term and strategic. I think it's a good opportunity to share it and boast about it, it's going to be the summit in Katowice. As I mentioned, Poland in this respect, Polish diplomacy, is very well assessed in the world. We are one of the most active diplomacy in the world. This is demonstrated not only by the fact that we organize this summit for the third time, but also by the importance of the topic that we will be taking in Katowice, adopting rules implementing the principle that were adopted 3 years ago in Paris by world leaders. So much for my extra information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u250	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u251	The text of the Act includes the consent of the President of the Republic of Poland to ratify the Amendment to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer, drawn up in Montreal on 16 September 1987, adopted in Kigali on 15 October 2016. The Kigali amendments to the Montreal Protocol on the withdrawal of the production and consumption of ozone-depleting substances aim at protecting the climate from gases with a strong greenhouse effect - hydrofluorocarbons, i.e. fluorinated greenhouse gases, in short HFCs. HFC gases are present in equipment and everyday products such as refrigerators, air conditioners, foams and aerosols. Amendments are expected to directly affect the limits by 85% emissions of potentially emitted HFC gases expressed in CO2 eq (carbon dioxide equivalent) by reducing their production and consumption, which is expected to reduce global warming by up to 0.5°C at the end of the century. In addition, these amendments support the objectives of the Paris Agreement, adopted at the Paris climate conference in December 2015 by 195 countries, whose long-term objective is to keep the global average temperature rise well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. The Parties to the Montreal Protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer are 197. The commitments resulting from the amendments in question from Kigali are already contained in Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases and repealing Regulation (EC) No For developed countries, i.e. EU Member States, the withdrawal of HFCs under these amendments will not go beyond much more restrictive EU legislation. Therefore, for Poland, this ratification is a kind of formality, which also depends on the full participation of the EU in the Montreal Protocol. The provisions of the Montreal Protocol are so important and necessary that compliance with their guidelines by the obliged states will result in the full recovery of the ozone layer by the middle of this century. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the costs which may result from the adoption of this law concern only the increase of the contribution of the Republic of Poland as a party to the Montreal Protocol (Multilateral Fund) since 2021 in connection with the extension of the catalogue of substances to be withdrawn under the Montreal Protocol. The Modern Posel Club will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u252	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994 (prints No. 2882 and 2970). I ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994, print No 2882. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading on 2 October 2018. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 6 November 2018, request the High Sejm to adopt draft legislation on printing No 2882 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u254	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Józef Leśniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice on the draft law contained in print No 2882, the report is print No 2970. This bill agrees that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the conclusion of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Warsaw on 23 June 1994. This law aims to bring existing agreements into line with European Union law in order to avoid formal proceedings by the European Commission. The enforcement of claims before an international investment tribunal has been publicly criticised, costly and long-term. The conclusion of an agreement should not affect economic relations between Poland and Romania. The current level of legislation and access to the general judiciary sufficiently secures foreign investors. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u256	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Grunkle, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u257	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present my position on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the termination of the agreement on promotion and mutual protection of investment. High Izbo! Similar agreements were already discussed here in May this year. The main problem is that this agreement was concluded in the 1990s when Poland was not a member of the European Union. The European Commission has expressed its reservations as to its compatibility or individual parts with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. These agreements may conflict with them, in particular with the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services and with principles of Union law, such as the principle of primacy, unity, effectiveness and, above all, the certainty of European Union law. The termination of such an agreement on the basis of bilateral agreements and the conclusion of new agreements will regulate legal issues in the context of economic cooperation. Therefore, the PO Club will vote in favour of the termination of these agreements and, consequently, of the draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u258	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 on the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of Romania on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. Ladies and gentlemen! Here is the compatibility of both Romanian and Polish governments in order to conclude the agreement from the 1990s, which was largely consummated in practice by EU rules that concern both Romania and Poland, so in this case the Poselski Kukiz Club will recommend the support of this bill to its Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u260	Thank you. Mr Truskolaski made his statement in writing. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Paweł Grabowski. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u261	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question. I wonder what trades are like with Romania. If we are already talking about investment and economic cooperation, if the Minister is able to provide me with such information, then I would be grateful if not, it may also be in writing. I'm talking about this combination, for example. there were trades, trades, let's say, in the previous year, and what it looked like in 1994 or 1995, when this agreement was concluded. I'm also interested in dynamics. Does this trade with Romania increase, or do we import more or export more? I myself had the opportunity to be in Romania this year, I saw many Polish cars, Polish trucks, which, as you can see, carry Polish goods, Polish products to Romania, on the other hand, I admit honestly, I do not often meet Romanian products on the Polish market. So I wonder what this trade and investment exchange looks like in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u262	Thank you, sir. I've been informed that the answer will be given to you in writing. Then I will close the discussion. [[Thank you very much.]] We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 16 July 1993 (prints No 2883 and 2971). I ask Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 16 July 1993, print No 2883. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 After consulting the Sejm Bureau on 2 October 2018, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for their first reading. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 6 November 2018 request that the High Sejm adopt draft law from print no. 2883 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u264	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Józef Leśniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club on the draft law contained in prints 2883 and 2971. This draft law, as in the case of several laws adopted by the High House, also discussed today in the previous paragraph, agrees that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investment, drawn up in Budapest on 16 July 1993. This law, like the previous laws adopted by the High House, is merely intended to bring existing agreements into line with European Union law in order to avoid formal proceedings in the European Commission. It should also be stressed here that the termination of the agreement is the result of a bilateral agreement. The current level of legislation and access to the general judiciary sufficiently secures foreign investors. The agreement concluded should not affect economic relations between Poland and the Czech Republic. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Grunkle, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u267	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club on the termination of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic concerning the promotion and mutual protection of investment, specifically the draft law which will terminate this agreement. As I mentioned earlier, this is the type of agreement that was signed in the 1990s and is therefore not in line with EU law at the moment, so this agreement must be terminated and a new agreement signed in the near future. The Civic Platform Club believes that this legal order should be regulated and will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u268	Thank you. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here we are talking about a declaration of agreement, which is worth mentioning, that the mutual protection agreement concluded between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Poland has been terminated. This agreement is, to a large extent, as in the case of the agreement referred to in the previous point concluded with the Government of Romania, consumed by Union legislation. Therefore, in order to avoid a conflict of standards, this agreement has been terminated. All we have to do is ratify it. In view of the above, the Kukiz Club will recommend to its Members the support of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u270	Thank you. Mr Truskolaski made his statement in writing. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of your parliamentarians like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Grabowski. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u271	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Again, I have a request, and of course the answer can be in writing. I am interested in this trade and investment exchange between Poland and the Czech Republic. How does this compare, say, the previous year of 1994 or 1995, when this agreement that we are debating today was signed? What is the dynamics of the change in trade between Poland and the Czech Republic - are we dealing with nominal growth, whether exports or imports prevail? I am simply interested in what this trade is like, how much this agreement has actually been useful to us in previous years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u272	Thank you. Mr Marcin Ociepa, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology, will answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, we will give you all this information, including, as far as Romania is concerned, in writing. I would just like to stress that the Czech Republic is our second trading partner, in this sense it is important to us. Total value of exports is EUR 13 billion and imports EUR 7 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u274	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u275	The existence of this bilateral agreement between Poland and the Czech Republic is contested by the European Commission due to the non-compliance with EU law, as is contested by the existence of all other agreements to promote and protect mutual investment between EU Member States. The Court of Justice of the European Union also expressed its opinion on this issue, which, in response to the question referred for a preliminary ruling, stated that the investment promotion and protection agreements were incompatible with EU law. These agreements were intended to provide full protection for both the Polish and the other parties and the possibility of redress against an international investment tribunal in the event of violation of the rights of any of the parties to the agreement. The protection of investment through international arbitration was intended to be a kind of fuse for both foreign investors in Poland and for the entry into the free market game of the Polish entrepreneur. The European Commission has serious concerns that agreements for the promotion and mutual protection of investment, including the above-mentioned agreements, as well as their individual provisions, are in line with or may conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in particular the principles of freedom of movement of capital, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services and the fundamental principles of EU law, such as the principle of primacy, unity, efficiency and security of EU law. The European Commission also has reservations about the settlement of investment disputes governed by bilateral investment agreements, including those mentioned above, which, according to the European Commission, seems to be contrary to the exclusive competence of EU courts. The termination of the agreement will lead to compliance with EU law with relations between Poland and the Czech Republic in the field of economic cooperation. At Community level, termination of agreements should not have political consequences. Poland and the Czech Republic were invited by the European Commission to conclude intra-EU BIT agreements. The agreement will not have negative social consequences, on the contrary, it is expected that it will be welcomed by public criticism in Poland of intra-EU BIT agreements and international investment arbitration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u276	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, take five. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 56 hours 15 min 07]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws (prints No 2828 and 2962). I ask Mr Tadeusz Wozniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The project entered the marshal's staff on 7 September this year. and was included in print No 2828. The first reading took place at 69. meeting of the Sejm on 3 October this year. The project was addressed to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The Commission on 4 October this year. set up an 11-person emergency subcommittee to which the project was referred for detailed consideration. The extraordinary subcommittee held two meetings on 4 and 23 October. As a result of the work of the Sub-Committee, several legislative and more detailed amendments were introduced. The Extraordinary Sub-Committee presented a report to the committee on 6 November this year. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs has examined the report of the Emergency Sub-Committee and has not submitted amendments or reservations to the proposed version of the bill, accepting unanimously the draft version submitted by the Emergency Sub-Committee. Accordingly, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has decided to present its report to the High House. The Commission unanimously requests the High Sejm to adopt a draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws in the version accompanying the printing no. 2962. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u278	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I was honoured to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government bill amending the Police Act and some other laws, prints No 2828 and 2962. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the bill, recognising that it is important and aims to increase the security of both Polish citizens and other people residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Terrorism is today an extremely dangerous form of political and ideological warfare, which must be countered by all possible forms within the legal limits using the best-fits-all services and the best-trained. The bill responds to a real need for harmonisation in the law of anti-terrorism and counter-terrorism concepts and the actual creation of a counter-terrorism service as a service compatible with other services, both national and international. The newly established service is expected to be responsible for counter-terrorism activities within the meaning of the Anti-Terrorism Act of 10 June 2016 and to support the activities of police agencies under conditions of special threat or requiring the use of specialised forces and resources and specialised tactics of action. The proposed amendments are foreseen within the current permanent status of the Office for Anti-Terrorism Operations of the Police Headquarters and the independent units of the Anti-Terrorist Police. In order to ensure historical continuity, the abbreviation BOA from the name of the former Anti-Terror Operations Office was left as the name of the Central Counter-Terrorist Police Unit. In addition to the BOA, there will be independent police counter-terrorist units. The superior of the BOA will be chief of police, who will also appoint the commander of the BOA and, at his request, the deputy. The commanders of the independent counter-terrorist divisions will be appointed from among the counter-terrorism officers by the competent police commanders or the police capital commander. It should be pointed out that, in order to harmonise the functioning of the system and the organisation of independent sub-groups of counter-terrorism police, the project provides for the allocation of the BOA's competence to coordinate, prepare and implement counter-terrorism activities of the police. At the same time, a solution is envisaged to ensure that counter-terrorism activities will be carried out by the BOA and the police's own counter-terrorism units with priority before other actions in order to ensure effective response to terrorist events. The proposal also provides for the possibility to withdraw from compliance with the rules and principles of health and safety of the service, with all safeguards available under the conditions in question, if, in the course of carrying out the duties in circumstances justified by the need for a higher level of necessity, a police officer in the counter-terrorism service finds that there is a likelihood of saving human health or life or reversing a threat to the security of the State. This provision will allow the use of all available means to save lives by counter-terrorism police officers. A similar solution already exists in the laws governing the functioning of services such as Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Central Anti-corruption Office, Military Counter-intelligence Service and Military Intelligence Service. As a result of the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, including the Extraordinary Sub-Committee, the project has been slightly improved by introducing several legislative and more detailed amendments. In its present form, it is fully deserved to be passed by the High Sejm. At this point I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the members of the extraordinary subcommittee for their substantive and consistent cooperation in order to present this report to the High House in the interests of the security of our citizens and other people residing in the Republic of Poland, the alignment of Polish legislation with international and national law, including the unification and proper application of the concepts of counter-terrorism in relation to the law on anti-terrorism, in which the concepts of counter-terrorism and counter-terrorism are not strictly synonymous. I would also like to thank Minister Jarosław Zieliński and those accompanying him for the substantive reasons which have fully convinced all Members involved in the submission. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the draft contained in the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, print No 2962, and declares the vote in favour of its adoption, calling on all Members for a similar position, because it is in the interest of Poland, our citizens and others. [[♪ The bell ♪]] people who want to live in harmony with the law and feel safe. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u280	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Wójcik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This point was shifted today during the work of the Sejm because of the long-awaited negotiations which the Minister, I understand, has led with the social side to resolve this obvious crisis that we are facing today in the police. Minister, I haven't seen any messages yet. I hope that the talks have ended fruitfully, I hope that the Minister will be able to give us some good news, because we all really keep our fingers crossed for this difficult situation to be resolved as soon as possible, because this situation, the absence of such a large number of police officers in Poland, has already threatened the security of the state and the security of citizens. So we hope that the Minister will provide us with good information on the course of these discussions with the social side. On the other hand, on the agenda, I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Club on amendments to the Police Act. As my previous speakers said, this amendment creates a counter-terrorism service. This is in fact an organisational change, because the counter-terrorism service will be created from existing units, namely the Anti-Terror Ops Office and independent anti-terrorist sub-groups. As a result, there will be no increase in the number of posts, there will be no major changes in matters relating to the powers of those officers who are already serving in anti-terrorist units. At first reading, I spoke about our doubts about the status of officers of the present independent anti-terrorist divisions, but during the discussions in the committee these matters were clarified - and I thank you for the involvement of the representatives of the Ministry and police officers - so we will vote in favour of this project. Let me just remind you that the principle has been maintained that in the organizational scope of the SPA will continue to be linked to the police voivodship commands. It is very important that voivodship commanders really know what is happening in these units, so that they also have the opportunity to manage officers who simply function in these units, and maybe for various reasons they will have to carry out e.g. other tasks in the voivodship command, in this voivodship command, of which they are officers. On the other hand, with regard to this scope related to the task of SPAs in relation to counter-terrorism activities, these units will be directly subject to the BOA commander. Therefore, this change is already clear to us. As I said, we will support this bill, we do not object to it at this moment. I will have one question, but this concerns the clarification of certain issues, so it is already in question to the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u282	Thank you. And supplement - Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform. There isn't. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15. There isn't any either. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the governmental draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws included in print No. 2962. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is in fact an organizational project that regulates the functioning differently, otherwise regulating the assignment of the counter-terrorism service, in principle creating such a service or a new counter-terrorism structure. This is an organizational change. Of course, after the discussion in the committee and, as my previous speakers have said here, the explanations that have taken place, we will not block this project either. Perhaps this organisational change will contribute to better compliance by the police with the tasks that are being put before the police. It is important, and this should be emphasised, that it is a structure that will, however, function in two dimensions, i.e. at the headquarters and at the voivodship headquarters. We believe that this is an absolutely good solution. On the other hand, I would like to say on this occasion that these organisational arrangements, although important, are not the main problem of the police. It seems to me that, when talking about this organizational structure, it is also worth discussing these changes about what are the problems of the police today, where are the most important problems that lead to the challenges we see today in terms of ensuring security. I also hope that these talks which the Ministry is conducting will end positively, because here the security of Poles is at stake, but I cannot fail to say what is so important. Ladies and gentlemen, the police themselves show that today an extremely important problem, something that blocks in some cases the provision of an adequate level of security, is staff shortages, overwork of police officers. Ladies and gentlemen! This is obviously related to police funding issues, to overtime issues. I want to make it clear today that the Modern Club understands this position of policemen, understands the need to adjust the level of remuneration to the level of responsibility of officers who care about our safety. We have not seen one in the government for three years, I would say, on the one hand, attachment to financing things that are important, but on the other hand appreciate those who care about our safety. With all due respect, Minister, I understand that you have proposed, and the Sejm has adopted such a multi-annual plan for modernising services. There are also partly planned measures for increases. But if we look at these social transfers, how you respond to the demands of some social groups, how much you underestimate the work of service officers, especially police officers, I must say - but here is the dissonance, it is clearly visible. As I say, these increases are necessary, also in the area of overtime regulation, because it cannot be that, if we say: service, this service is boundless, that a policeman can work for several hundred hours a month and is not paid for it. This can't be right. That is why we are absolutely standing behind police officers in terms of increases and overtime issues. We call on the Ministry to resolve this absolutely. I would also like to talk about the issues of unclear criteria for promotion in the context of these administrative changes that we are talking about today. Ladies and gentlemen, police officers are increasingly raising cases that point to the fact that it is not really a matter of substance, it is not a matter of commitment, it is not quite a matter of competence, and other things are beginning to come into play. You can't leave it without comment. This leads to an erosion of confidence in you among the officers who are, after all, state security, citizens' safety. Finally, Minister, I would like to make it clear that I appeal: stop politicising the police. It's for everyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not gonna end well. We will support the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u284	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u285	...but when it comes to the approach to services - absolutely critical. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u286	Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the PSL Club, the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u287	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! Speaking from this stand at the time of the first reading of the Act on the amendment of the Police Act and of some other laws, I questioned the need for a further amendment of the Act, on the basis of strictly rational grounds, as regards, in general, the fragmentation and fragmentation of individual elements of the Police as a whole, including sovereignty over it. The Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats has never opposed smart and rational legislative solutions for social welfare, and certainly has not stood and will not stand in opposition to solutions for the security of the state and its citizens. I've said that from this place many times before. The Member is not bound by the electoral instructions, but also does not have absolute knowledge in every area, in every matter, and he certainly cannot have it in matters of such a complex nature and of critical importance in matters of broad security. The comments and doubts that I have stressed have not only arisen as a result of discussions with many high-ranking police officers, but also because of the very nature of the matter being processed, the best evidence of which was the creation of an emergency subcommittee in this case. I'm going to the point. After obtaining comprehensive knowledge and the sole assurances of the chief chief As regards the urgent need to separate the Anti-Terror Operations Office as a central unit of the counter-terrorism Police, as well as its specific tasks, powers and conditions of service requiring the use of specialised forces and resources and the specialised tactics of action, my club has come to the conclusion that, in fact, in accordance with the provision of a central police authority, the creation and separation of the BOA will serve the purposes referred to in the available section of the bill. At this point, it cannot be denied that the tasks entrusted to the police's own counter-terrorist units will be specific and exceptional. It is worth noting that in carrying out the tasks entrusted to the designated entities, time and mobility will be the main factor, which must take into account the new organisational and permanent structure of these independent branches. The organisational arrangements for structural dependence cannot be wronged. In view of the particular nature of the work of officers appointed to serve in the BOA, separate admission criteria, including specific requirements for candidates, will be applied. In order for the Act under discussion today to be compatible with other acts already in force, it is clear that the four laws already in force referred to in Article are to be amended. 2, Article 3, Article 4 and Article 4 5th bill. Such a design of the legislation discussed today and the amended act will enable to achieve the objectives which the legislation adopted today in this Chamber is intended to serve. The Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats following a thorough analysis of the project is in favour of the report of the print committee No. 2962. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u288	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zwierzan made her statement in writing. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of you like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u289	High Izbo! Minister! I have the impression that the Independence Day surprised the state authorities like the winter of the roadmen. But it is also very disturbing to the people of Warsaw that the statements of representatives of the government, especially the Prime Minister, like the previous statement that the organisers of the Independence March are unable to ensure a peaceful course of manifestation. Therefore, I am asking a specific question to the Minister, awaiting a specific answer: What number of officers from the Garrison Warsaw is currently on sick leave, so-called. L4, and what's the number of officers in the prevention squad currently on parole? The situation is extreme and we should also use this debate to ensure that the Minister responds precisely as the police are prepared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for tasks on 11 November and for demonstrations which have been announced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u290	Thank you, sir. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At a time when the level of terrorist threat beyond our western border is unprecedentedly high, efficient service to combat threats is essential. The concept set out in the bill for the organisation of sub-groups of counter-terrorism police seems right, but I have a question. Will the new service be provided with separate powers under the proposed reorganisation to carry out exploratory and operational activities, or will it remain merely a means of implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u292	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Jerzy Borowczak, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u293	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I'd like to take advantage of the Minister's presence, and I'd like to ask you, what's the medical discharge case with the police? Whether this is L4 issued by doctors indicating that the sick must lie down, or whether it is sufficient that a policeman or other servants, as far as the police or the ABW are concerned, declares that he is sick, and the superior writes to him, I don't know, two or three days off to heal. [[Voice from the room: The release must be.]] Does everyone get a specific L4 release from a particular doctor? 'Cause if there's $15,000. Officers, it's really the police health department that works fast, since these doctors will be able to accept, diagnose and give medical discharge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u294	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mark Wójcik, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that we will be talking more about the issue of medical dismissals of officers tomorrow, during the current information, but I would like to ask about the matter that has actually arisen during the committee work on the project. Well, the Ombudsman raised some doubts about us. I must admit that this doubt only came to me after my work in the subcommittee was finished and there was no time to explain it. The Ombudsman draws attention to the paragraph added in the law. Article 8 71a. This is the paragraph that deals with counter-terrorism and a state of higher necessity. And here's the whole legal statement and the comparison of the rules in force. The Ombudsman takes the view that - I quote - the introduction into the legal order of the article. Article 71a (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 8 in its current shape may lead to narrowing down the possibilities of counter-terrorism service. Please inform me if you have analysed these doubts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and whether there will be some contradiction between this provision and your intentions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u296	Thank you, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Jarosław Zieliński to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This bill actually introduces organisational changes, but important organisational changes. In uniform formations, organisation of structures and activities is of great importance. We discussed this during the subcommittee meetings and the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. This matter has been clarified and I am very pleased that everyone has acknowledged that although it is an organisational change, it is important, important and worthy of support, because it will allow for greater efficiency of this part of the police, which has counter-terrorism activities in its tasks. It will ensure greater efficiency in command, training and equipment. And these consequences were presented during our discussions. I would like to thank all the clubs for the support declared in the Chamber and previously expressed in the vote on the bill and recommendation of the High House during the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. That's the way it's supposed to be. Security matters should be excluded from the political dispute. We should all make sure that Poland is safe. This law is another step towards this, especially in the area of terrorist threats that are so dangerous today. This is the next step after the first very important step that was taken in 2016, when we adopted a very expected, necessary and long-lasting anti-terrorist act in the legal system. I am convinced that this bill will serve to increase security. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a debate on the political issues that have been raised here, nor is it a debate about the situation in the police and the problems in the police. That's the topic that's scheduled for tomorrow, and we're gonna talk about it. However, I would like to say, using the time that I have - very briefly - that the Polish police work well, which is proof that Poland is seen as a safe country and is a safe country. It is a safe and distinct country from the European countries in many respects, both in terms of the terrorist threats we are discussing today and in terms of organised crime. Polish police are able to identify and eliminate these criminal environments and threats. The detection of crimes over the last three years, while we are responsible for the state and for the security of our homeland, is increasing. The number of crimes in the vast majority of categories is falling and this is a constant trend. She doesn't come out of nowhere, she doesn't come out of herself, that's the result of the good police work at the different levels of the structure that this formation has. It is also the result of good command, leadership and, which will probably not be easy to admit to the opposition, good supervision. There were great projects that we had to secure at that time. I will remind you of the 2016 World Youth Days, NATO Summit, the conference of the Tri-Morga States in Warsaw, attended by the President of the World Power - USA, the UNESCO Conference, the European Youth Football Championship. I'm listing these most important projects on an international scale. They were all safe. This is a very important aspect, it did not come from itself. There are threats. When it comes to feeling safe among Poles, it is also very high. Over 90% surveyed - and these are objective and reliable research carried out every now and then, not only now but also in the past - believes that in Poland it is safe that Poland is a safe country. More than 80% of Poles think that it is - or vice versa - I may have confused this data - safely in their place of residence. Maybe it's the higher one... no, the second number concerns the sense of safety in the place where we live, the place where we spend most of our lives, we live, we send children to school, we participate in social life. Ladies and gentlemen, trust in the police is very high. Recent studies have shown that confidence has increased by several percentage points to 74%. This is the second such high indicator of trust, even slightly higher than it was after World Youth Day, where the police were - and other uniform formations - rated very high. We remember those chanting words of thanks: police, police, thank you! The Reichs were able to express their gratitude for their security. This is not, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this police formation is concerned, so easy to achieve. We all know that. These are important things, important parameters. We carry out a programme of modernization of uniformed services, we buy new equipment, equipment, means of transport. It is enough to remind that in the police themselves we exchange during the years for which the modernization program was designed, about 1/3 of transport equipment. We raise the salaries of police officers, officers, increase the salaries of civilian workers, build new commands, precincts, recreate pre-emptively decommissioned precincts. There's really a lot of good going on. Of course, this does not solve all the problems, they are and we try to respond to them on an ongoing basis. When it comes to vacations in the police, because such a question has also been asked, there is, of course, a part of them today. We want to make sure they're gone with all our powers. I keep saying that it's the living, the specific officers that keep it safe, not the vacancies. There was a time when the vacancies were kept on purpose so that the money saved would be spent on targets that were short of resources in the police force. During previous governments, they really remained at different levels. There have been fewer of them, there have been more, even clearly more of them than there are now. So that this is not a dramatic situation with regard to the number of vacancies at the moment and the number of volunteers who report to the police. Of course, the environment is changing, the labour market is different than it was a few years ago, in fact we do not have unemployment or it is very small, which we are happy about. Institutions other than uniformed services also offer interesting, often attractive conditions. There is competition on the market for workers, for young people. We know that. It's not some truth I'm discovering. This, of course, affects the admission to the police and other services. Still, new officers are being admitted to his next rounds. Just remind one of the examples. Only in September, it's almost $1,000 to recruit the police. new officers. Soon we will sum it up, because recruitment is still ongoing, we will show the balance sheet at the end of the calendar year - this is always done - the number of exits and the number of admissions. This situation we're dealing with is not easy, but it's drawing, I'd say, more optimistic. These recent parties indicate that there are still quite a number of those willing to meet the conditions of police work, although the number per seat is, of course, smaller than e.g. Ten years ago. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The situation with the police has been really difficult lately. We're having conversations. I, of course, have participated in these conversations today, and they are still going on. These are joint work, social dialogues, trade unions, and so-called. the official website, i.e. MSWiA, the management of the Ministry and the commanders of individual formations. Please wait for the final results of these talks, because they have not yet finished and today's work continues. That's all I can say. Thank you for wishing them a positive ending. We too would very much like that, and we hope that this will happen. The situation needs to stabilize. Security is one of the most important values for all of us. We want him to be safe not only on November 11th. We'll do everything we can to make sure our daily lives are safe, too. We want officers on duty, not on sick leave. We want cooperation with trade unions representing formations, officers and uniformed staff. Our declarations are unchangeable. We have a consistent attitude, but I repeat, please wait for the announcements. They'll be at the end of the joint work. With regard to the Independence March, which will take place in Warsaw in 3 days and there will also be large-scale celebrations in other cities, the police will do everything possible so far to ensure security. I am convinced that this security will be ensured despite the difficulties of staff in the current situation regarding the number of people who remain on sick leave. Ladies and gentlemen, police officers, officers are responsible, and so are the commanders. They're doing everything they can to keep it safe. And we just need one more factor to make that happen, namely, the responsible attitude of all. The celebration of independence, ladies and gentlemen, is this year's anniversary, the great anniversary of 100 years of regaining independence, we live in our lives once. Not much, just once in history such a holiday is and twice it will be gone, and we will certainly not survive 200 years or 300 years. You have to take great responsibility for this. And therefore, on the occasion that I am on the floor of the Parliament, I ask everyone to share great joy, in the sense of the national community, great responsibility, of course, about the behavior that will make police work easier, so living this holiday joyfully but peacefully. I hope that there will be no negative emotions, that there will be only positive emotions and in the Independence March in Warsaw, which has a unique dimension this year, because it will have a state character. All services will carry out their tasks, but we will also certainly participate in this great celebration, which I invite all Poles to do and encourage - who can, in Warsaw, who can not, is in other places where many celebrations will be organized. Indeed, the situation is unique and it would be good - we very much want it, we want it - that in this sphere, which is the sphere of responsibility for the safety of Poles, on this particular day everything will be organized so that we can be sure that the tasks will be carried out properly and to the end well. This is what we strive for and hope for, but of course we also hope that security in Poland will be ensured at a very high level in the coming days, months, years. We will do everything as responsible for this sphere in the government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, so that it will be so. There's been some rehearsals here, I'd say, political tours. I wouldn't want to react to them, because why all the excitement, why amplify them somehow and give them a foundation? But I think every one of you knows very well, and that's what the police know, because they're talking about it - they were talking about it when I was in opposition, they were talking on the streets -- that I don't think anyone like the government of law and justice the first time, in this short period in 2005-2007, and now he didn't care about uniformed services and security, just like us, like our government. It is precisely security and concern for officers, uniform formations - of course also about other spheres, but we are talking about this today - that is something characteristic of the programme, for the concrete actions of our political environment. So it's the officers who know, and it seems to me that this is also the basis for reaching an agreement now, in this difficult situation that has arisen. We declare constant concern about uniform services, because this is an investment in the safety of Poles. This is an investment. not only in the safety of the officers themselves, of course, but also in the safety of Poles. The modernisation programme, for which we have saved the amount of PLN 9200 million, is an important project. When we designed this bill, it was a slightly different external situation. Today - I have already mentioned this - the results or effects of this programme, especially in terms of wages, have flattened a bit, so we are looking for other additional opportunities. And, after all, in this offer, which we presented before today's negotiations, there were also proposals. But for the final results of what you asked, let's wait a few more hours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u298	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws following the work on this project in committee. This draft law provides for the separation from the existing structures in the Central Police Department of the Counter-Terrorist Police Department (BOA) and 17 independent branches throughout the country. The resulting unit will deal with the fight against terrorism in Poland. Nowadays, the problem of terrorism is present and growing all over the world. Although this threat seems small in Poland, I am convinced that any changes to increase our safety should be accepted positively. I consider these changes to be the ones proposed in this amendment. I am convinced, as I have already stressed, that the new organisational structure will improve the way the entire unit works, as well as the harmonisation of the anti-terrorist training system. And the career path defined in the project will increase the efficiency of the individual and ensure that people with the right experience and knowledge will be in the right positions. In my opinion, this project is extremely important, as it is important that you are able to ensure adequate protection for your citizens and for the whole country. An efficient police counter-terrorism service is an integral part of this protection. I believe that the proposed solutions will benefit both the service and the citizens. Therefore, near Free and Solidarnia will fully support these solutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u300	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed to the examination of item 28 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Civil Code Act (Print No 2876). I ask the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland of Mr.Paweł Mucha to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u301	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill to amend the Civil Code Act. The novel is short and consists of three articles. The first concerns the repeal of Article. 482 § 2 of the Civil Code of 23 April 1964. This provision contains an exception to the exception to interest claims on late interest. According to Art. 482 § 1 of the Civil Code interest on late interest may be requested only from the date on which the parties have applied for it or have given their consent to add it to the debt amount after its formation. In turn, the paragraph 2 in question, which is to be repealed by this amendment, provides that this restriction does not apply to long-term loans granted by credit institutions. The second article of the novel determines the possibility of charging interest on interest under contracts on the date of the entry into force of the law which I am presenting. The amendment is intended to cover not only contracts concluded after its introduction but all credit agreements, long-term loans and loans concluded before its entry into force in respect of interest due after its entry into force. This provision therefore provides that the existing provisions will apply to interest due for periods which ended before the date of entry into force of the amendment. The third article of the proposed amendment concerns vacathio legis. The applicant decided to extend the period of vacathio legis from the usual 14 days to 30 days due to the importance of this amendment and its importance for the financial market. As you know, anatolysm means taking interest on late interest. In other words, a debtor who does not regularly pay his debts to the creditor may be punished in such a way that he is charged additional interest on late interest. Anatolycism as such is prohibited in Polish law. There are three exceptions to the ban on anatomy. The first is to bring an action. At the time of the action, the principal sum together with outstanding interest shall capitalise and the court may also be required to charge interest for outstanding interest. The second concerns a situation where the parties, after the backlog, agree to an interest addition. The third relates to a situation where a long-term loan is granted by a credit institution. The provision on the prohibition of anatolycism and exceptions to it was introduced by the Civil Code in 1965 and is still functioning unchanged today. When the Civil Code entered into force, credit institutions were the Central Bank, special and industry banks, credit cooperatives and savings banks. Long-term loans, on the other hand, could only be granted by special banks. And the content of that provision, aimed at safeguarding the economic interests of state-owned entities, has remained unchanged until now. Despite its inadequacy, since in the meantime there has been a change in the system, it has not yet been changed. Due to serious interpretational doubts, both as regards the term "credit institution' and as regards the definition of "long-term loan', this provision is in practice a source of many controversy. As defined in the Banking Law, credit institutions other than cooperative banks are also savings and credit banks. However, the legal doctrine considers that the provision to be repealed by this amendment does not apply to them. The same is true of the concept of a long-term loan, which is a liquid, inconspicuous concept and raises doubts. A large part of the legal community recognizes that this concept includes credit, but some experts express a different opinion. It is also doubtful what period of contract makes the contract long-term. True, some point out that this is a matter of at least one year, but that statement is not based on any legal provision. In general law, it was assumed that a credit institution should be identified with the bank in accordance with the provisions on the prohibition of anatolycism. In turn the long-term loan began to be identified with the loan. A similar interpretation is followed not only by banks and doctrines, but also by court. On the other hand, it should be mentioned here that interest on interest also raises doubts of interpretation under tax law. The question arose as to whether capitalised interest constituted tax revenue at the date of capitalization of interest or at the time of actual payment. The provision, which may seem quite harmless today due to low inflation and thus low interest rates on loans and loans, is, however, a very strong tool for the borrower, who ceases to pay off the debt related e.g. with a mortgage or a credit card. A bank without any judicial review may then charge additional interest on outstanding interest where it accounts for a large part of the debt. In addition, the situation may become dangerous for borrowers in the event of a significant change in the monetary policy of the State or another financial crisis. The regulation that is proposed will be very practical and is a legal proposal which responds to the expectations of consumers, businesses and is undoubtedly beneficial for them. First of all, any newly concluded credit agreement or loan will not be subject to the risk of a bank charging criminal interest in the event of default until the parties have brought an action for it or have recognised it. Secondly, in the case of previously concluded credit agreements or loans as of the date of entry into force of this Regulation, credit institutions will not be able to charge further interest on late interest without earlier bringing an action or a concerted statement by the parties in this respect. The analysis carried out at the President's Office confirms that this change of law is a change which is both acceptable and justified, and necessary, and, as I said, favorable from the perspective of debtors. They do not rely on the truth or are not relevant to such arguments that maintaining this provision would allegedly be in the interest of debtors. It should be noted in advance that it would be difficult to take this hypothesis seriously when it is not clear how negative the proposed initiative could affect the situation of customers. Possibly, the banks can be expected to sue, which will result in additional legal costs on the part of the defendants, but as I have already said, banks can now collect interest on interest without filing a lawsuit without any risk associated with this type of activity. The proposed amendment will require the bank to go to court in order to be able to charge interest on late interest. It should be borne in mind that there is also an institution for the recognition of an action in civil proceedings and that no costs for the debtor must be associated with such a situation. There is also no risk that interest will be calculated to such an extent that it will exceed the value of the collateral, which is particularly important in the case of loans to foreign currencies or secured by mortgages. The borrower also gets a long time in which he can take steps to find other financial sources to repay the loan, and is not surprised by the bank's one-sided calculation of criminal interest. It took several months to work on this project. He received a positive opinion from five institutions: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Ombudsman, which I particularly stress, the National Bank of Poland and the Office of the Financial Supervision Commission. In the course of this work, an inter-temporal provision was also introduced as a response to the doubts surrounding the application of the amendment to existing loans. Any question of interpretation linked to the genesis of the deleted provision and the unwarranted position of the banks in legal disputes had decided that President Andrzej Duda had decided to propose a legislative initiative to delete the article I mentioned. 482 § 2 of the Civil Code Act. This law will undoubtedly improve the situation of borrowers in their relationship with banks and is one of the many steps we need to take to achieve this objective. I would like to remind you that the President of the Republic of Poland also directed initiatives to protect the weaker side of relations, contracts, loans or loans, including in the context of foreign currency contracts. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask for a positive assessment of the project submitted and for it to be adopted as proposed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u302	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the presidential draft law amending the Civil Code Act in print No 2876. The project, as the Minister explained in the explanatory memorandum, concerns the liquidation of the preference of credit institutions in the calculation of interest on late interest pursuant to Article. 482 § 2 of the Civil Code. In Polish law, the general rule of civil law is that interest on late interest is prohibited, so-called. A ban on anatolysm, but there are exceptions to it. These two, three exceptions are also governed by law: two in such a situation where interest is capitalised on the basis of either the agreement of the parties, or after an outstanding claim has been brought, and this third situation arises from Article. 284 § 2 of the Civil Code and gives this privileged position to credit institutions. Indeed, this provision was brought into legal order during the right period of the past, i.e. under the conditions of the socialist economy. During the whole period of the Third Republic it has not been changed. There is no question that it favours institutions that are stronger than borrowers, borrowers, i.e. mainly banks that have a number of instruments that allow the recovery of outstanding debts. This additional advantage in the form of the possibility of charging interest on late interest seems indeed unjustified. The presidential proposal goes in the right direction, it will have good results in the form of, above all, strengthening borrowers, borrowers. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice requests that the draft be referred to the committee responsible for further legislative work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u304	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak. There's no envoy. In that case, please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of Kukiz.15, I present our position on printing 2876, the presidential draft on the revision of the Civil Code. High Izbo! Well, the project seems clear and unambiguous, goes in the right direction, deletes § 2, which was created in the Civil Code in 1965 and practically concerned a completely different organisation and a completely different structure, so we will certainly support this project. But, Minister, on this occasion, let me draw my attention to another project of yours, which concerned free legal assistance, which was to look so beautifully for which I fought in various committees on behalf of a non-governmental organisation, and with which such a thing happened. That is what we said before: often a good project at the beginning ends very badly. And let me say this: the introduction of civic guidance led to the elimination of non-governmental organisations, these real non-governmental organisations. Well, Minister, do you know how much you pay to get a certificate today that you've had 70-hour training plus 20, which is 90-hour legal counseling? 4000 zł. Which non-governmental organization - the normal one, not the one who gets benefits - is able to use it and spend the 4000 PLN? Because I ran a non-governmental organization for 13 years, dealing only with legal advice, and today this organization is eliminated. That's the first thing. Second thing. You're getting fiction, Minister, and I'm paying attention. If the President continues to remain silent on this matter, it is an exceptional scandal. Let me put it this way: in Katowice, seven organizations form a Union of Advisory Organizations, one other - that's what it's called. It's registered. It consists of some association for the promotion and protection of mental health. I understand that they are doing a good job, but they have never had anything to do with civic counseling. This is created on 29 September this year and by decision of the Minister of Justice of 3 October 2018. The Ministry of Justice shall recognise the relationship as an entity entitled to conduct the training and training courses referred to in Article. 11 Law on Free Legal Assistance. And that's the relationship that sets a fare: a course - 3 thousand, an exam - 1 thousand. zł, i.e. the NGO is to pay 4 thousand together, and the value of the course is simply none. The value of this course is none. So you meant well, and it came out wrong. I wouldn't want this project to be okay at first, and it ended badly. Because for example, I'd rather we have a debt project here in Swiss francs. It's about a lot of people. I'm afraid that's something we're not talking about. The justice system is still on its shoulders. You took an emergency complaint from people because a five-year complaint is fiction. There was a long project at the beginning, too. There was another project, KRS-owski, about changes in the KRS - he also went down to dogs during the procession. I know you'll tell me it's not your fault. It's the Sejm's fault. But unfortunately, once these projects are given, it is better to agree them at the beginning with the Ministry of Justice, so that they do not simply come out of them, so that they do not come out of them douchebags. This project will be supported if it is in this form. I draw attention, Minister, and I ask you to look at this project with free assistance, because at the moment the situation is that the counties, the municipalities, do not have any willingness to provide civic guidance to these organisations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u306	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Kobyliński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u307	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project is very short, there's nothing to do with it. We are in favour of directing this project to the appropriate committee and then adopting it, unless, of course, it is changed on a special basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u308	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk made his statement in writing. Let's move on to asking questions. Would any of your parliamentarians like to join the list? I can't see. I'm closing the list. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Bank Association, when assessing the project, pointed out that the proposed change would actually have the opposite effect and would hit customers. Banks will bring actions in the event of all interest arrears. This may result in a radical increase in cases in courts, as well as putting customers at risk of additional legal costs and costs associated with the hiring of lawyers. Have the effects of the proposed changes been assessed? Next question: Is there a risk that the proposed changes will encourage not to repay the loans within the deadline? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u310	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In many areas of social life, and especially in its economic dimension, we are dealing with the conclusion of agreements between entities with huge disparities in terms of financial and institutional potential. The role of the state must be to protect these actors, most often ordinary citizens, who are in a much weaker position. Freedom and economic freedom mean equality of participants towards the law, not ideological lack of interference. The solution put forward by your president to block the possibility of forcing borrowers to accept unfavourable credit agreements is a very good step. My suggestion goes in this direction in order to think well about how many more of these changes we need to make so that Poles feel that their country is really serving to protect their interests and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u312	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u313	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! These questions and doubts have already come from the podium here, but I would like to ask you about any concerns about the introduction of these records and their consequences. I am thinking here of situations where, at the time of late payment of the capital interest, banks will automatically occur on a judicial path. And so now: the first concerns relate to additional costs for bank customers related to process costs, because the results of these processes or court decisions - as we can expect - will benefit banks and this will generate additional costs for bank customers, for example. costs related to procedural replacement. The second concern is concern about the consequences of banks being on a judicial path. This threatens an increase in the number of court cases, which in turn will extend the waiting time for citizens to resolve their individual cases, and this is a huge problem before these rules are introduced, and we are absolutely aware of that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, are you aware of such consequences of the introduction of these provisions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u314	Thank you, Member. I now request the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Łukasz Piebiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u315	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before Minister Mucha answers the questions, I wanted to briefly present the position of the Ministry of Justice for the time being, because the government's position has not yet been formally adopted. The proposal prepared by the Ministry in this area, i.e. the Ministry of Justice, is a positive proposal. It is difficult here to repeat all the arguments that Minister Mucha put forward and which we share in their entirety. The concerns expressed at the stage of work by the Sejm Analysis Office are considered unjustified. We always depend as the Ministry of Justice to relieve the burden of the courts, not to burden them. We do not see the threat that interest cases and other additional matters would have a massive impact on Polish courts. However, it should not really be so that in 2018 the relics of the Polish People's Republic threatened in the Polish legal system to present in the Civil Code this kind of privileged situation of banks as regards the anatomy discussed today in the High House. We are convinced that this project is a well-written, substantively accurate project and deserves the support of the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u316	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer the questions asked by the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland of Mr Paweł Mucha.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u317	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for these positive voices, which have dominated the statements made by your fellow Members, both in terms of the statements made by the clubs, as well as in terms of questions. Of course, there is no rational justification for maintaining this subjective preference, which is now taking place as regards the content of the article. 482 § 2 c.c. There is also no doubt that the proposed change of law is an in-plus change. It improves the situation of borrowers, borrowers, consumers, entrepreneurs who are parties to such contracts. As Minister Łukasz Piebiak rightly pointed out, there is no real threat to a number of cases, a large number of cases which would therefore be referred to the courts. However, here we point out the difference between the fact that no one changes to any extent this regulation, which is contained in the provision of the Article. 482 § 1 Civil Code... What else is to be done after examining the decision to go to court and refer the case to court, and what else is the right to break this prohibition of anatolyzm only because of its status, i.e. for subjective reasons. So thank you for those good voices that supported the President's initiative. As regards judicial matters, I will draw the attention of the High House to the fact that the opinion of the National Judicial Council on the draft law was also positive, as confirmed by those opinions which were here, that there is no risk of any significant increase in the number of judicial cases in fact. As I say, it is the elimination of the preference and the arguments that fall here are side-by-side. As regards the question of assessing the effects, because this is also the question that the Member has asked, this is not a matter of detailed calculation. Such data are not in the possession of the Financial Supervision Authority or the Ministry of Finance today. However, it is known that given the situation of financial institutions or banks, these effects are not significant enough to affect their condition in any way. Nor do we see any risks or risks associated with the implementation of this law. As regards the question of the President's activity in support of borrowers, I would like to remind the High House that the President of the Republic of Poland has sent two draft laws, which are examined as part of the work of the subcommittee and as part of the activities of the Committee on Public Finance. There are, among others. the law on the Creditors' Support Fund, as regards the amendment of this law. This is a law that improves the legal situation of borrowers both in this case, when we are talking about borrowers who have gold loans and are in financial difficulties, and when we are talking about those who have loans to foreign currencies, whether indexed or nominated to foreign currencies. I hope that the work on this law will be dynamically undertaken as part of the work of the subcommittee. Anyway, I'm paying attention here. also to the temporal context, because this law is a timely act. She's running until the end of the year. The Fund would be dissolved if there were no changes or extensions, and I am convinced that such work will be undertaken this year. So in response to Mr Jerzy Jachnik's speech, of course we remember these things and the President presented these initiatives. It also depends on the High House, on your Members, how this will be handled efficiently. As regards the law on the National Judicial Council, I believe that this change of law was beneficial, it is beneficial, i.e. the question of the choice of judges by representatives of the nation, i.e. by states, but it is an in-plus change. I am pleased that Kukiz15 participated in these changes and managed to obtain an appropriate qualified majority to elect representatives of the KRS. On the other hand, as regards the issue of the Free Legal Assistance Act, I would not agree that I see the huge positive effects of the Law, i.e. I see that, at the stage of the pre-trial aid, we had such a situation that there was a negative verification on the basis that someone fulfilled the criteria for entitlement to this aid. As a result of these changes in the law, we have such a situation that it is really possible to obtain free legal assistance on the basis of a declaration. With 10 years of experience in providing free legal advice, I am fully convinced that this amendment was an appropriate change. With regard to issues relating to civic guidance and assistance, I also welcome these changes, but we see the need to discuss these changes. We're about to have a conference on this by the President's Chancellery. I also invite you to this bill so that we can talk about it so that we can keep in touch. Of course, there's a need to monitor this case. For the President, there is no doubt that the question of giving Poles access to free legal assistance or civic guidance at the pre-trial stage is one of the fundamental things that guarantee a genuine right to court and which also guarantee the real protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. This is absolutely a priority for us. Thank you. I think I've explained all the questions that came up in the questions. I would like to thank you very much for these positive voices regarding the Presidential draft law on amending the Civil Code Act, which I have presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u318	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u319	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that the draft law was not consulted on the banking environment and, therefore, the designer did not take into account the possible negative effects of this project, among others. for borrowers, what does the Office of Sejm Analysis indicate in its opinion? Is it true that the Sejm Analysis Office's thesis that the proposed change does not have to mean only positive effects on borrowers, as it can also lead, among others. to increase the number of court cases and increase the costs of the courts, as well as to charge the legal costs of borrowers? Is it true that the proposed change also does not have to protect borrowers from debt spirals? Is it true that the introduction of the amendments in the draft law will also result in the adoption by credit institutions of the practice of applying a contractual increase in the interest rate of the loan (credit) in the event of a default in the repayment of the capital, which will clearly have a negative impact on the situation of borrowers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed change will undoubtedly have a positive impact on the situation of borrowers or borrowers who repay long-term loans. This is a big asset when it comes to countering customer debt increases. However, any change in this issue is likely to lead to difficulties in accessing and increasing credit costs. The bankers clearly say that nothing is lost in economics. Is there no need for other safeguards against the introduction of similar mechanisms by credit institutions in connection with this amendment? In addition, please inform us how these solutions will affect, among others. for legal matters relating to the granting of loans.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats our position on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Civil Code Act (Print No 2876). The project envisages eliminating interest rates, i.e. the so-called interest rates. Anatolysm. The proposal aims to remove from our legal system the exception to the ban on anatomy contained in the article. 482 § 2 of the Civil Code. It is therefore a question of eliminating the unjustified preference of credit institutions in the calculation of interest on late interest on the basis of this provision. Currently, the Civil Code provides for three exceptions to the prohibition of anatolycism. The first concerns the case where the parties have agreed, after the interest has arisen, to capitalise on them. The second exception concerns the capital injections made after an outstanding interest claim has been brought. The third exception is subjective and refers to credit institutions. According to Art. 482 § 2 of the Civil Code is allowed to collect interest on late interest due on long-term loans granted by credit institutions. In the case of the first two exceptions, the requirement for the calculation of interest is that there is a backlog and, in the case of the third exception, such provision is permitted already in the long-term loan agreement. The debtor of a credit institution under a long-term loan agreement is therefore not protected on general terms against overly restrictive interest for late payment and the credit institution itself is privileged in legal transactions in this respect. One of the situations where anatolycism is now legally applicable is the provision of a long-term loan by a credit institution. However, both of these terms are inaccurately explained, which in practice leads to a number of interpretational abuses and consequently to the excessive use of loan interest capitalisations. This project aims to improve the position of consumers in their relations with banks and other credit institutions. Its introduction will counter the increase in the debt of clients of credit institutions and fall into the so-called. the debt loop for the possibility of making an appointment in advance for payment of interest on late interest, so-called. interest paid, without bringing an action. High Izbo! The proposed changes should be assessed positively, they should reduce the practice of lending companies, which often increase the burden on debtors in a way that insults all standards. The implementation of the project will counter the increase in the debt of clients of credit institutions and fall into the so-called. the debt loop for the possibility of making an appointment in advance for payment of interest on late interest, so-called. the compound percentage. However, it should be borne in mind that the repeal of the Article. 482 § 2 will not result in a credit institution not being able to claim interest on outstanding interest, but will be subject to prior action.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u322	Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. 87. 2 in conjunction with Article. 90. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed by the President of the Republic of Poland the draft law amending the Civil Code Act, contained in print No.2876, to the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications for consideration. I would like to inform you that item 30 of the agenda will not be dealt with at the current sitting of the Sejm. We proceed to the examination of item 29 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland (print No 2902). I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The last 250 years of history of the Polish nation are filled with wars and armed breaks in defence of the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Poland or with the aim of regaining the freedom and independence of the state. Generations of Poles and all nationalities living in the land of the present and former Republic of Poland laid on the altar the most precious gift - their own life. Those who died in battle, whether in regular formations or in guerrilla troops, in conspiracy, as well as victims of the crimes of invaders and invaders murdered, tortured in prisons, camps and lagras, are all surrounded by honor and respect, and future generations should cultivate their due memory. The independent Republic is obliged to show them equal respect and memory, as are their fallen comrades in arms. For many years, institutions appointed to preserve national identity and care for memorial sites have been involved here, among others. The former Council for the Protection of Remembrance of the Fight and Martyrdom and the Institute of National Remembrance also dealt with these matters by the voivods - there were reports and appeals about taking care of the veterans' graves for natural reasons during the period of peace. The graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland treated as private graves, family graves are not registered, and in their case there is no provision for financial support system. The bill, which today the High Chamber is considering, aims to determine the rules for the care of the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland from 1768 to 1963. These dates are very important and symbolic. The first date is, of course, the beginning of the first rally in defence of the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland, the bar confederation, the final date is the year of the death of the last soldier of the cursed, steadfast, resistance. Józef Franczak, ps. Dolls. The bill is considered veterans to be participants in armed combat and civil servants of insurgent governments and emigration authorities. These graves are located both in Poland and abroad. The project, which the High Chamber is considering today, assumes: the creation of a collective record of graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland and the introduction of a financial support system for entities taking care of such graves. As far as foundations, associations, churches or religious associations are concerned, support will be in the form of targeted grants. As far as individuals are concerned, support will be in the form of a cash benefit. The institution responsible for creating records of graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland is to be the Institute of National Remembrance. An entry in the register of a grave situated in the territory of the Republic of Poland may be made at the request of a natural person, a foundation, an association, a church or a religious union, as well as of another legal person or organizational unit which is not a legal person or of its own motion. In the case of a grave of a veteran located outside the territory of the Republic of Poland, the entry may be made at the request of a consul of the Republic of Poland or of his own motion. The entry of the grave in the records will be preceded by a survey carried out by the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, or by the grave concerned, meets the criteria of recognition as a grave of a veteran fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. In view of the provision laid down in the draft, according to which the provisions of that law do not apply to war graves within the meaning of the Law of 28 March 1933 on graves and war cemeteries, the entry in the records will be made after confirmation by the competent voivode that the grave concerned has not been entered in the records referred to in the Law on graves and war cemeteries and does not fulfil the conditions for its recognition as a war grave within the meaning of the above. Laws. In addition, it was proposed to require the voivods to inform without delay the president of the Institute about the discovery of a grave which does not meet the conditions to be regarded as a war grave and which in the assessment of the voivodeship can be regarded as a grave of a veteran fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. If the President of the Institute of a particular grave refuses to accept Poland's freedom and independence as the grave of a veteran, the applicant will be entitled to appeal to the College of the Institute of National Remembrance. The project also provides for the publication in the Public Information Bulletin of the Institute of the list of graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland. The grant provided for in the draft law may be granted to finance or co-finance tasks related to the care of the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, in particular to cover the expenditure necessary for the construction, repair, transfer and maintenance of these graves. This grant will be granted on the basis of a contract. As regards support for natural persons, such persons will be able to apply for the provision of money by the IPN to cover all or part of the costs of care provided, in particular to cover the expenses necessary for the construction, repair and maintenance of the grave. A benefit agreement will also be concluded in this case. The bill contains, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, a financial rule which provides that the top limit of the budget allocated by the Institute of National Remembrance will be annually - the financial rule applies to the years up to 2028 - an amount of 5275 thousand. zł. The draft proposes that the Act enter into force on 1 January 2019. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Please support the proposed bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u324	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u325	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This special time we are experiencing in the patriotic calendar is undoubtedly very appropriate to undertake the ordering of matters that concern the eternal resting places of our national heroes, those who stood up for the values for us as the most precious nation - our homeland. The governmental bill on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland concerning the creation of records of veterans' graves fighting for freedom and independence located on the territory of the Republic of Poland and abroad, as well as the launch of a public-funded system of support for care over veterans' graves, as well as a Commission proposal to ensure the dignity and proper protection of the resting places of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other persons deserved in the fight for independence and sovereignty of the Polish State, which concerns the statutory protection of the resting places of participants in the fight for sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Poland, constitute a necessary complement to the existing regulations on the subject. The fact that these are socially expected solutions is also demonstrated by the fact that the Commission project is a reaction to petitions by the Warsaw Insurgents Association and the Memorial Foundation about the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising. High Izbo! Heroes of times of war and communism, as well as veterans of other battles from the last few centuries deserve the highest respect. One way to preserve their memory is to provide adequate care for the burial sites of these people. It is appropriate to agree with the projectors that it is the responsibility of the State and all its bodies to ensure that the graves of national heroes are kept in good condition and that they are not wound up, especially in situations where there is no possibility for members of the deceased's family to continue to take care of the resting place. As the designers point out, the current legal situation does not allow public authorities to carry out this task properly. The solutions contained in both projects meet these needs. As a Parliamentary Club, we are very positive about further work on these projects. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u327	High Izbo! Minister! Hello and praise the heroes! - often these words fall at various celebrations, when we today want to bow down to the heroes of Polish independence. Heroes of Polish independence deserve respect here and now and deserve respect when they leave. Many times we have taken action so that people who are considered veterans, heroes of the Warsaw Uprising, other military formations, can spend the last years of their lives in decent conditions. Therefore, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, in cooperation with Warsaw insurgents' environments, submitted a project to ensure that stays in social assistance homes for participants of the Warsaw Uprising are free stays. We proposed that this cost should be taken on in equal parts of the local government and the government, that is, the state budget. After a long wait in the freezer of the Marshal of the Sejm and in the absence of any activity of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, chaired by Vice-Marshal Mazurek, a proposal was adopted which completely imposed this obligation on the local government without providing it, Minister, even a zloty. Nevertheless, I would like to declare that from 1 January this year all Warsaw insurgents, all members of the veteran corps in the city. Warsaw is exempt from any charges. [[Applause]] Warsaw took on this responsibility when you didn't want to add any gold to it. Warsaw also took responsibility for its heroes when I twice tabled an amendment to the state budget in order to create a daily house of support for Warsaw insurgents. All Members of the Law and Justice this year, in January this year, voted against my amendment concerning the creation of a daily home for Warsaw insurgents.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u328	Mr President, it's not about the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u329	Warsaw again took responsibility. On September 30th the day house of the Warsaw insurgents was created at ul. Newlipe 22 and work began on the destination at ul. Hrubieszowska 9. The Warsaw Insurgents' Union and the foundation, which looks after the graves of Warsaw insurgents, presented their project to the Committee on Petitions. This project is an expected project. Today we should direct these two projects - a government project which is a little late, but I understand that it is a certain remorse, as well as a draft drafted by the Committee on Petitions - to further work. It's very important to approach these matters with great respect. It's also very important that Christmas...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u330	Mr President, one sentence to you: paragraph 30 is not dealt with at this session of the Sejm because there is no applicant, and this applicant is your party club colleague.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u331	Yeah, I know that. Therefore, what I am presenting on behalf of the Civic Platform Club today concerns both the government project and the commission project. Today we are expressing our position on both projects. We are in favour of further work on both projects. We would like to see the coming Independence Day on 11 November on the streets of Warsaw as a great celebration of Community Poles and Poles, also heroes who fought for free Poland. We would like, Minister, that no more racist, xenophobic banners will appear on the streets of Warsaw, excluding some group of residents of our city and our country. May these celebrations be worthy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government and President Duda took full responsibility for them. Do your duty to those who are still alive, and take care of the graves of those who have already died... [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u332	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u333	...and they deserve our eternal respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u334	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was afraid I misunderstood the words of Marshal Mazurek that point 30 had been withdrawn. Your marshal was kind to say it again. Therefore, my comments, or actually the comments of the Kukiz club15, will refer only to the law on graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, print no. 2902. The law is necessary, it causes that public care will be given to graves of people deserved in fights for freedom and independence of Poland. Those graves, which are not, however, the graves of war victims, are the graves of both military people, representatives of others. public service, as well as the graves of civil independence conspiracy activists. They were often cared for by associations and individuals. They organized the fundraisers or took out the sponsors. But the results of these initiatives were not always the best, mainly because they did not have a certain awareness, e.g. historical, they were not aware of the value of the historic objects which were renovated. During the amateur renovation work, original plaques or elements of decor were destroyed. In this way, the ancient substance witnessed to the epoch and bearing historical messages was destroyed. There is some doubt about the time frame in the legislation for recognising the membership of the deceased as a veteran. The law included graves of civilian veterans of conspiracy in the country until 1956 and armed activity until 1963. In relation to the graves of the independence activists of the deceased in exile, a later cesarean was adopted, that is 1990. It's understandable. But given that the statutory care of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons is also covered by veterans of independence activities, including anti-communist activities carried out until 1990, also in the case of representatives of this group of veterans, who died in the country, should, in my opinion, be applied cesarea of 1990. The proposal is so purposeful that many of them have been awarded for the activity of independence awards and national decorations, including the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity, referring to the tradition of the Cross and the Medal of Independence from the interwar period. Another important issue that is regulated in this legislation is the creation of the National Heroes' Base of Rest. This will organize the knowledge of the veterans' graves and allow them to be saved if the family members of the deceased veteran lack personal care. At the same time, the adoption of the proposed law will allow for proper implementation of the constitutional obligation to protect national heritage by preserving and saving the graves of deceased heroes who, due to the passage of time and the absence of heirs, are deprived of the care of loved ones and who are not often cared for by local communities due to lack of knowledge. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u336	Thank you, sir. The other statements were made in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question to this point? If not, I'm closing the list. Ms Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u337	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are a number of questions for this bill, which will be implemented by the Institute of National Remembrance. On the basis of which it was calculated that 25 employees are needed to keep records of veterans graves, and the cost of purchasing computer stations and software is more than 5 000. zł in case of one position? I would also like to ask about the calculation of the resources that will be transferred to this purpose each year, i.e. keeping records and keeping veterans graves, which we currently have in Poland about 200,000. Isn't the amount indicated in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, given the staff costs, too low? Is a little over PLN 5 million a year enough to take good care of the tombstones of our heroes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u338	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform. Excuse me, Mr Antoni Duda. I am so sorry, sir. Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u339	You could have changed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u340	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u341	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the preamble to the Act, we read: On the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence, paying tribute to the passed generations, which in their attitude and struggle for an independent and sovereign homeland made an important contribution to the liberation of the Polish people, having regard to the worthy behaviour in the national memory of the consecration of these generations, are decided... etc. It's a bill that's expected and worthy of support. In our tradition, the memory of the dead, especially the victims of the struggle for our freedom and independence, takes a special place. The care of the graves of our loved ones is instilled in us, inscribed in the system of our values, which is why it is so important that the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, which for various reasons there is no one to care for, are surrounded by the care of the state. The State should be able to afford this care, especially since the estimated costs are not a problem for the state budget. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 it is specified that this law covers veterans of combat in the period from 1768 to 1963. 1963 is the year [[♪ The bell ♪]] The death of the last soldier cursed. Are the graves later The heroes of the fight against communism who have paid her health or even her life, the heroes who have no family should not be covered by this law? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u342	Thank you very much, sir. And now Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u343	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My question, on the occasion of this very important project, concerns this problem. Well, according to the laws of the cemeteries and the burial of the dead, the grave cannot be used again for 20 years. After that time, this grave may not be used again for burial if any person lodges a reservation against it and pays the appropriate fee. Unfortunately, we do not have the right solutions when the grave charge has not been paid, e.g. because of the absence of any more living family members or when members of such families simply say No, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, such omissions are transferred to the grave for liquidation. And here I am worried about graves of historical value or artistic value or e.g. They were veterans' graves. Do you have any knowledge of such cases that could not be found and protected in due course from liquidation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u344	Thank you, Member. Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u345	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad we're working on a project that at least partially protects hero graves from liquidation and oblivion. Thus, such formal and informal groups as e.g. Gliwice patriots have been collecting for years for cemetery fees for forgotten tombstones of deserving people of their homeland will receive institutional assistance. However, I have the following remark: Would it not be appropriate to establish a catalogue of people, e.g. honored with some State decorations, members of certain armed formations and not only whose graves, if the President of the IPN had not made another decision, would have been bound by legal protection? I would like to take my question as a follow-up to my predecessor's question. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u346	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u347	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Does the Polish government foresee the creation of a foundation that will protect the graves of Polish veterans fighting for freedom and independence? It is often seen that the graves are abandoned, neglected, which is a very bad sign of our memory of those who have lost their lives in the struggle for freedom or democracy or died later also natural death, and deserve to always remember their fights. Sometimes you can only see actions. Scouts or students of various schools who organize these forgotten graves, but it is not enough, need constant care for the graves of veterans who deserve more memory and care for their graves. Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u348	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to say that for me personally it is a real honor that I can present such a project on the eve of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. I was convinced that this matter would meet with a broad consensus in this House that no one would use this bill, which is, from every point of view, beneficial, good from the point of view of remembering our heroes for some political attack. Well, I have seen that Mr Szczerba, whom I do not see in the Chamber at the moment, did not hesitate to use it strictly for political purposes. I'm not here to argue politically with the thesis he was presenting, because it's not a good opportunity for that. As far as specific questions are concerned, I'm already answering them. Mr Brynus - in fact, this question is linked to the question that Mr Duda asked - he asked about these adopted cezurys. I already told you they're symbolic. The intention of the projector was to assume that support should be given first to those who were involved in armed combat, so here we are talking about veterans of armed, regular, guerrilla formations. Also the representatives of the government of the emigration government are somehow connected with this armed struggle, because the government in exile led armed action against the Nazi occupation with allies around the world. This is what we have adopted, and in my opinion it is justified. Mrs Płępek asked about the conditions of financial calculations, staff calculations, whether more than 5 million, which the government in the draft law allocates in the upper limit for the implementation of these records, was enough. I can only say that these calculations, both in terms of staff, financial needs and this limit, are based on estimates and calculations of the Institute of National Remembrance. I have already answered Mr Duda's question. Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska asked about the issue of fees and possible removal of graves. I can answer in such a way that there is nothing to prevent the funding which is provided for by the Law - it is also addressed to natural persons - from being used to regulate this fee. It's obvious, that's why these records are pretty general in the law. Mr Pyzik asked for the inclusion in the bill of permanent catalogue of persons who would no longer have to be verified by the Institute of National Remembrance. Mr President, let me not fully agree with you, because this is history. Historical issues are always very difficult. I would like to, and so it is described in the bill, leave the questions of verification to specialists: historians of the Institute of National Remembrance. It is precisely for such purposes an institution which has knowledge, experience. This verification - I am confident - will be done on principles of integrity and integrity. Mr Romecki from the Kukiz club15 asked about the creation of a foundation. Mr President, I am convinced that these actions, which are provided for by the law, specific financial assistance, are already consuming your request. The Foundation would duplicate the tasks that the government, through the Institute of National Remembrance, is taking on at the moment, Mr. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept these explanations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u350	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[Polish People's Party Association - Union of European Democrats]] [[Dear Marshal, On behalf of the parliamentary club PSL - UED, I am in favour of adopting the bill on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland.]] [[On the 100th anniversary of regaining sovereignty, it is our duty to specially honor the memory of people who paid the highest price for dreams of a free country. It's also about the less-known ones, for example. on the Germanisation of activists of the Mazury People's Party, and many others who died in 1768 and 1963. Each of them had a greater or less contribution to regaining independence, each one should be remembered and respected. We therefore support the intention that the graves of the state veterans will be dealt with by the Institute of National Remembrance and their protection will be properly financed and structured.]] [[Members of the club PSL - ED are in favour of the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost a year ago, in November 2017, I sent the Minister of National Defence the first question about the grieving state in which the burial site of General Mieczysław Poniatowski is located. I asked the Minister, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, who was then in office, to take urgent intervention and to take tangible action from the Polish Army and the Ministry of National Defence, which will lead to the urgent repair of the tombstone of the pre-war General of the Polish Army. My request was addressed less than a year before the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. Therefore, I sincerely hoped that the Ministry would take appropriate action to improve the state of affairs, so that on 11 November 2018 it would be possible to honor General Poniatowski at the renovated tombstone. The management of the Ministry responded to my inquiry with almost half a year of delay in relation to the statutory deadline, and this was only after the request for intervention was sent to the Marshal of the Sejm and the President of the Council of Ministers. It should be noted that it took six months for the Ministry to formulate a reply containing just a few sentences, which in no way merely announced that the matter had not been dealt with, but did not even give hope for any involvement of the MON in this matter. The letter signed by the Secretary of State Wojciech Skurkiewicz states that the Institute of National Remembrance is the competent institution in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Gravestones and War Cemeteries. According to the information obtained from him, this institution does not preclude the completion of a comprehensive repair of the tombstone of Gen. Mieczysław Poniatowski. Interestingly, after asking for intervention at the Institute of National Remembrance, I received a reply that the National Remembrance Institute - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the National Polish People does not have legal opportunities related to the repair of family tombs. However, this situation clearly points to the inability of the institutions of the Polish State, which cannot take any action, arguing this either by lack of adequate legal basis, or by shifting responsibility to someone else. The whole situation is so sad that in a few days we will mention, among others. memory of such people on the eve of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence by Poland. In view of the above, I ask, first of all, to explain who has been taking care of the graves of Polish heroes so far and in addition, please answer the following questions. Did the Ministry attempt to take care of General Mieczysław Poniatowski's grave and execute a new tombstone, a worthy resting place of the well-deserved General of the Polish Army? Has the Ministry taken any action in the past year with the Institute of National Remembrance aimed at final improvement of the current state of affairs? Has the Ministry taken any action to improve the condition of the tombstone?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the first reading of the Government's draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, print No 2902, paragraph 29, and the first reading of the Commission's draft law on ensuring worthy memory and proper protection of the resting places of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other persons deserved in the fight for independence and sovereignty of the Polish State, print No 2920, paragraph 30. Our nation of Poland - all citizens of the Republic of Poland... grateful to our ancestors for their work, for the struggle for independence occupied by huge victims, (...) memorials of bitter experiences from the time when fundamental freedoms and human rights were broken in our Homeland - as stated in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997. From her art. 5 On the other hand, it is clear that the preservation of national heritage is one of the most important tasks of the Republic of Poland and of all public authorities. But not only does the constitution respectfully refer to national heroes. A number of laws, including the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Consecution of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, declare that it is the duty of the public authorities to preserve the memory of the great number of victims, losses and damages suffered by the Polish people during and after the Second World War and to cultivate the patriotic traditions of the Polish people's struggle with the invaders, Nazism and communism. The preservation of the memory of national heroes is an essential element of every national community, and one of the forms of preservation of this memory is to provide adequate care for the burial places of people who participated in fights for the defence of Poland's independence. It is the responsibility of the State and of all its authorities to ensure that the graves of national heroes are kept in good condition and that they are not wound up, especially in cases where there is no possibility for members of the deceased's family to continue to take care of the resting place. And that is what two today's draft laws in prints 2902 and 2920 refer to. November is a month of special memory of the dead, saints preserved in our memory, about heroes, thanks to which we live today in free and independent Poland. Therefore, from this place, from the heart of Polish freedom and democracy, which is Parliament, I thank all those who contributed to the preparation and submission of these projects in the Sejm. They require clarification and harmonisation, as can be seen from the calculation set out in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, that 7000 zlotys should be sufficient for the renovation or replacement of a single monument, which seems to be far too small, even unreal. It would be necessary to assess this issue after a year of validity of the Act. I also hope to extend the final version of the law, among others. the so-called. memorial sites, of which there are thousands throughout Poland. Often they are forgotten places, which are devastating places that nobody cares about. Funds should also be earmarked for the renovation of such sites. In Warsaw itself there are more than 160 so-called. Thorek's memorial plaques that commemorate the Nazi crime scenes. In addition, we have many other places and plaques that require proper care. Therefore, in further work on the Law, we will make amendments extending the scope of care to be provided by the IPN, including the mentioned memorial sites. It will be a beautiful gift on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of Poland regaining independence for all our national heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government's draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland and the Commission's draft law on ensuring worthy memory and proper protection of the resting places of the Heroes of the Warsaw Uprising and other persons deserved in the fights for independence and sovereignty of the Polish State. That such a government act would arise, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki assured on the past anniversary of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. I am pleased that his promises are being fulfilled and that this is happening at such a rapid pace. This bill has been waiting for many years for the veterans and families of veterans. It assumes that the Polish state will take care of all graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, regardless of whether they are in the territory or outside our country. In addition, a specific fund is also envisaged to finance grants to cover all or part of the costs of caring for such graves, as well as their renovations. The President of the Institute of National Remembrance will be responsible for the creation and keeping of special records. Currently, the care of the state is subject to burials of people who have died or died because of war or because of the repression of the German or Soviet occupation. It is important, however, that the provisions of this law will include all those who have fought for our freedom, not just those who have paid the highest price for this fight. The current year is a special year in the history of our country. Since its beginning, numerous events have been held throughout the country, whose aim is to commemorate this magnificent anniversary, which is the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. All the more I appreciate the fact that it is this year that the Polish government takes care of the memory of those thanks to which our country is free and independent. I agree with the Prime Minister that the memory of our ancestors should build the future. I am convinced that by caring for the graves of our heroes, we pay tribute to them and care for our national identity. About Free and Solidarnia, of course, will support this government project. At the same time, given that the subject matter of the Commission's draft print law No 2920 coincides with the government print project No 2902, near Free and Solidarnia will also vote in favour of its further process. I hope that the substantive work on these projects in the committee will allow us to work out the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u354	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the graves of veterans fighting for freedom and independence of Poland, contained in print No 2902, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the National Debt Register, - amending the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. The reports shall be in prints 2991 and 2993 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and heard in discussions on the reports: - the printing of the 2991/5 minute statements on behalf of clubs and wheels, - from print no. 2993-03-minute statements on behalf of clubs and wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 40 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the National Debt Register (prints No. 2637 and 2991). I ask Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Perhaps, Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the Government's draft law on the National Debt Register, prints 2637 and 2991. The Sejm at its 66th meeting on 4 July 2018, pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 17 July and 7 November, brings the following: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. I would also like to add that, in order to examine this law, a subcommittee was also set up, which I had the honour of chairing. The work went very well; at the level and the subcommittee, and the committee, the draft was adopted without objection. The project is important, the project is needed. I hope it will be accepted soon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u356	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position towards the government's draft law on the National Debt Register. It is appropriate to agree with the intention of the Council of Ministers to prepare this project, as the register will disclose information concerning specific categories of entities with a common feature of insolvency, insolvency risk or other solvency problems, which state that executions against a particular entity prove ineffective. Notices shall also be made in the register if this is the case by a specific provision. It should be added that the obligation to make notices in the register is provided for in a number of provisions of the Restructuring Law and insolvency law. The adoption of the project will achieve many objectives. The most important of these would include: providing creditors with current access to the file of restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings via the electronic system, i.e. the Internet; disclosure in the register of a wide range of data on ongoing restructuring and insolvency proceedings, which will undoubtedly increase the transparency of these proceedings; increasing the security of business; improving the supervision of creditors and the judge of the commissioner over the judicial, administrator and syndicate; speeding up and improving restructuring and insolvency proceedings and increasing their efficiency; increasing the level of satisfaction of creditors in insolvency proceedings. It is also important that the Act implements the obligation imposed by Regulation 2015/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council. I therefore declare, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, that the club is satisfied with the work of the committee and the final version of the project and, of course, will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u358	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marcin Święcicki. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I present my position on print no. 2637. Let me put it this way: in principle, the creation of such a register is justified, but this register, in our personal conviction, interferes too deeply, too much collects data, keeps it too long. We could still agree on that if this ledger wasn't open. Well, the full disclosure of this register requires me to ask how it applies to the GDPR Act. At this point it is that, on the one hand, we are told to freeze our names in the parliamentary offices, all the data, all the signatures, e-mails, and on the other hand, all our data will be in the National Debt Register. There's something here, Minister, wrong. Do we not exaggerate too much with the introduction of this EU law, etc.? Either we've gone too far with the GDPR, or we're going too far with the debt records. The decision on our position on this matter will only be made. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u360	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michał Jaros, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u361	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present my position on the committee's report on the government draft law on the National Debt Register, prints No. 2637 and 2991. The project deals with the definition of rules for maintaining the National Debt Register in the ICT system and serves to implement European regulations. On the basis of the Insolvency Regulation, Member States shall establish and maintain on their territory at least one register, so-called. the bankruptcy register in which information on insolvency proceedings is published immediately after they have been opened. The Regulation sets out a minimum set of publicly available data. The advantages of the project include improving the information of creditors and courts by providing the IT system with timely access to the files of restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings. It is also an asset to prevent parallel insolvency proceedings in the Member States. The establishment of a public electronic access point for information in the e-Justice system will allow access to mandatory information contained in insolvency registers that Member States will make available. The introduction of these changes will also involve increasing the safety of economic turnover, speeding up and improving restructuring and bankruptcy procedures and increasing their efficiency. There are still doubts about the need to share PESEL numbers in the National Debt Register. However, practice shows that this is difficult to avoid. Taking into account the project aspects given, on behalf of the Posel Club I am in favour of adopting this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats. There's no envoy. Mr Marcin Święcicki. There's no envoy. Has any of the ladies and gentlemen signed up for the question? The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u363	I have the honour to present on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats a position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on the National Debt Register. This project envisages the creation of a National Debt Register. It will be public, so everyone will be able to read the data disclosed in it via the Internet. The project also envisages facilitating the restructuring and bankruptcy of entrepreneurs. This is a response to the serious problems of restructuring and bankruptcy courts resulting from a significant increase in the number of cases, in particular those relating to consumer bankruptcy. Projectors propose to introduce an obligation to submit applications and documents by electronic means in the restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings of entrepreneurs. This will enable the automatic transfer of data from the application submitted by electronic means to the repertoires and the rules of the court and the judge of the Commissioner in question. An electronic service is introduced as a principle in the project, which is intended to speed up the communication of the participants in the proceedings with the court. From this principle, an exception has been proposed to allow applications to be submitted outside the electronic system: employees, maintenance creditors and debtors who are consumers will be able to submit applications in paper form and orally at the transmitting office of each court. The files of restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings are to be kept in electronic form from now on. Access to them will be possible both in the file reading room in court and through a publicly available web portal. The draft also introduces an obligation to submit letters on forms set out in the online system, which will be mandatory for participants and bodies of the proceedings. The principle is also to create a single account for the entity, which will allow for communication with the court in restructuring and bankruptcy cases and registered cases. The proposed law will abolish the obligation to publish notices in the Court and Economic Monitor. This is expected to bring savings of PLN 3.6 million per year to the interested. The newly created National Debt Register will disclose the data of persons subject to restructuring and insolvency proceedings and those subject to ineffective execution. High Izbo! The proposed changes should be assessed positively. They will help to save businesses and reduce the costs of proceedings. Less paper correspondence and a more efficient circulation of documents will allow courts to act more effectively. The advantage of the project is also to facilitate access to court files and significantly reduce the time needed for access to data contained in documents relating to restructuring and bankruptcy proceedings. The European dimension of the changes is also important. The new system will link insolvency registers and the European e-Justice portal, which will act as a central electronic public access point for information in the system. The system will offer a search function in all official languages of the Union institutions to allow access to mandatory information and any other documents and information contained in insolvency registers maintained by Member States, which will also decide to make their resources available via the e-Justice portal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u364	Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform supports the draft law on the National Debt Register, prints No. 2637 and 2991. The need for a register is based on a law adopted in the previous term of office of the Sejm. The register is intended to provide reliable information on legal and natural persons and other entities subject to restructuring, insolvency proceedings, etc. The aim is to ensure greater economic safety. The register in the Polish version is also intended to cover those who fail to comply with maintenance obligations. However, the Data Protection Officer did not raise any objections to the solutions set out in the PESEL Act. The Civic Platform Club will vote in favour of a project introducing the National Debt Register.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u365	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 41 of the agenda: the report of the Health Committee and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the citizens' bill amending the law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans (prints 2796 and 2993). I would very much like to ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u366	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees: the Committee on Health and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the citizens' bill amending the law on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans, prints No. 2796 and 2993. I would remind you that the citizens' project was a decision of the Sejm addressed to these two committees. After a meeting of the Joint Committees, against 55 votes in favour and two votes against, the Joint Committees shall request that this draft be rejected. During the debate, two requests for rejection were made during the discussion. One proposal was about the immediate transition to vote, the other about the transition to vote after a short debate with the participation of experts in particular. I made such a proposal, managed to obtain consensus on this matter and the decision of the two joint committees, both applicants such a preliminary, brief debate we held with the participation of experts above all. Why was there a need for such a debate? Ladies and gentlemen, in recent times - I am thinking here not only of the last few weeks, but also of the last few years - an increasing wave of various types of misinformation or even misinformation as regards vaccination issues. Unfortunately, this results in an increasing number of people who decide not to give their children vaccination. This phenomenon, which we have seen for several years, which is fortunately still marginal, is still a dangerous and serious situation. And we recognised - I can also refer to the decision of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to refer this civil project to committee not only because we promised that citizens' projects would not be rejected at first reading, but also because of the need for discussion on this issue - that, for the sake of the matter, it is worth broadening the education field in this matter to have such a debate. And this debate has taken place today. Experts could inform the high committees, but also the public, in a factual and precise manner, why vaccination is such an important issue, and in the case of Poland compulsory vaccinations. Ladies and gentlemen, so that there is no doubt, the project which was addressed to the Sejm as a civic project also contains a number of other solutions or concerns other issues, not only the necessity of vaccination. It refers to issues related to the register of adverse vaccination reactions. And here I thank the Minister for the declaration that certain issues that are worrying -- that all these undesirable vaccination reactions should be included in the register, in order to also provide adequate education for medical staff -- will be addressed and worked on by the Ministry. Thank you very much for this, Minister. I think that the Committee on Health also has a role to play in this matter and it is certainly worth returning to this issue, in the sense of information and education, in future meetings, regardless of the issues relating to the rejection of this project. As I have said, the media have also played an important role in this matter and it seems to me that thanks to the many information that has appeared in the media space - the Minister or his co-workers repeatedly, and, for example, the state on behalf of the government, you have spoken on this issue in recent weeks - as I have learned, the trend is changing and the number of people who report to vaccination is increasing, which are taking the matter with due care and seriousness. It seems that this effect may be different from the intentions of the applicants of the civil project, but important from the point of view of health security of Polish citizens. In this regard, too, I thank you for the very clear position of the government from the outset, which has made it clear that it has rejected this proposal. I would also like to thank the Marshal of the whole Sejm Bureau, led by the Marshal, that you have made a quick decision on this matter, to extend the agenda of the current Sejm, so that a second reading can be held today and that a vote on this matter can be held tomorrow. Very cordial, Your Marshal, I would like to thank your Marshal for this. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems rare that there are cases that bring together all the clubs in this House, and this is certainly the case with this project, which, I believe, on the basis of the vote in committee, almost all Members and all clubs will be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u367	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Latos will be the first to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. Once again, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u368	Thank you very much. Again, indeed. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I now wanted to clarify and clarify a certain position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which was not exactly the right thing to do for me as rapporteur. Well, ladies and gentlemen, so that there is no doubt, because unfortunately, the process of this project has imposed itself on local elections - always such a political element, a certain election game obscures the picture and shows false intentions, shows them in the wrong light. Well, ladies and gentlemen - and I say this with full responsibility as the person who is responsible in the parliamentary club for matters relating to health - Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has been in position since the beginning, in line with the government's position, that this citizens' project must be rejected. It must be rejected because in Poland we cannot afford to be free of vaccination for different reasons. I will also say that in some countries that have decided to do so, the opposite trend and even the discipline of their own citizens can be observed today, and there will probably be changes in this area. In order to be clear, I would add that we are a stable and secure parliamentary base for the government of the Republic of Poland, the Government of Law and Justice, and the government's position on this matter was clear. We, on the other hand, promised during the election campaign that citizens' projects would not be rejected at first reading. This was therefore one of the reasons why we considered that the project should be addressed to the committee, in line with our promise, with full awareness that we would then ask for its rejection. On the other hand, there was a second element, which I mentioned briefly as rapporteur for the committee, namely the question of a certain education. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot act in such a way that you say no, because you don't, because we know better. At least try to educate citizens, inform them of the importance of vaccination. We cannot afford such a situation when the other party, using various reports read from the Internet, considers that we are not discussing this because we lack arguments - no. Today's committee meeting and today's expert speeches, although very short, show that the arguments in favour of maintaining mandatory vaccinations are too much. And we, ladies and gentlemen, wanted this to sound unambiguously. We are not in a situation that could probably have been observed a few decades ago when the doctor was not obliged to inform patients about the details of the treatment. Thus, a long time ago - it has been, but for many years it has not been so, and today the patient knows in detail why he is receiving such and not other treatments, why such or other decisions are made. And in this case it is the same, ladies and gentlemen. It is necessary to inform patients, citizens, why for their sake it is necessary to maintain the situation that we have in Poland, thanks to which we have a high level of empowerment, thanks to which there is no epidemic in Poland. Because what we're seeing right now is just measles, and it's not an measles epidemic. In addition, these are most likely outbreaks of measles imported from other neighbouring countries. So, as we guard this high level of empowerment, we must work together, even after rejecting this project, to ensure that proper education is carried out. Thank you, Minister Zalewska, for having such education in schools as well. At the same time, please once again, I ask the Minister to draw attention to those issues that are worth discussing, as well as to the issue of appropriate doctor education, perhaps the issue of improving cases related to the register of undesirable vaccination reactions, so that this issue can be addressed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the issue of vaccination of citizens who are permanently staying in our country and who have come here from other countries where there is no vaccination, because this problem also seems to be growing. Of course, the Law and Justice Club will vote against the citizens' project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u369	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Alice Chybick, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u370	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Platform has been opposed to this shameful act from the beginning. It is impossible to talk in Parliament about whether the land is suddenly flat or about other equally unlikely projects, regardless of how many people have signed under these projects. This shouldn't have happened at all. Today we should not listen to those pseudo-experts who spoke from the speaker at the meeting of the joint committee. In fact, vaccination is a blessing, and discussing it is going back to the Middle Ages. I do not agree with Mr Latos that he has no education, she has failed. I've been teaching people at the medical university for 43 years. In college, a student gets a shotgun if he doesn't know why they're being vaccinated and for what. There is education, sir, then as part of the specialization in pediatrics as well. Every pediatrician in the Polish Paediatric Society knows that vaccinations are important when you can vaccinate, when you can't, what you have to do before vaccination, how you have to test your child. That's what I call it. Of course it's obvious. My amazement has no boundaries here. Is it really possible to proceed over everything, whatever the nation brings in the number of 150 thousand. People who aren't supposed to drive cars that we're not supposed to use the power? Are we gonna do this kind of bullshit, too? In fact, I'm outraged that the ruling party club has become... However, there is no such thing in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure that the Member does not take responsibility for what he is voting for. Because he's taking responsibility. I'm having second thoughts. Members, including doctors, in accordance with our medical statute, have no right to promote anti-healthy attitudes, and voting for such a law is promoting anti-healthy attitudes. The Civic Platform Club has previously voted against, now it will also vote against and submit a motion to reject this law at first reading. I just wanted to say one more thing. I agree 100% with Minister Pinkas. Everything he said was the answer to what Mr Latos said, that, first, the NOPs are registering, second, children are examined before vaccination, thirdly, parents are informed - who does not want to hear something, they do not hear it. I can undoubtedly say on behalf of the Management Board of the Polish Paediatric Society, which has also issued a position that we will try even better. [[♪ The bell ♪]] educate pediatricians in this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u371	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the context of the discussion on voluntary vaccination, let me quote some facts. To those of you who have directed the project to further work in committee, we should make it clear that, when we proceed with this bill, we give anti-vaccine movements space to spread passwords, arguments that, from a medical point of view, are wrong to exist. In recent days, the media have widely reported further measles outbreaks in Poland. In the hospital in Poznań, a 14-month-old girl died, whose parents, despite their obligation, refused vaccination against pneumococci. And although they said they weren't opposed to vaccination, it looks like they trusted those who speak the language of emotion, not the facts. Sadly, they paid the highest price their parents could pay for this. Ladies and gentlemen! The facts are that vaccination is the most effective, cheapest and safest way to prevent infectious diseases. One of the main arguments of those representing the community of applicants, which I also had to deal with, is the issue of not providing data on measles mortality. In the absence of time when I first spoke, I did not give this information. So I want to make up for it. Prior to the introduction of measles vaccination, this rate was very high. On average, measles killed another person every 36 hours. The project we're talking about was inducted into the Sejm in July this year. If the law that the applicants propose had already been in force and if they had accepted the rates of morbidity and mortality from the 1970s, nearly 100 people would have died by now. Nearly 100 families would experience a tragedy that could be avoided without problems. I'm talking about fatalities only in the case of one of the infectious diseases. An equally great tragedy would be complications of polio or rubella infertility. I would also like to raise a point that the applicants do not want to talk about. The first question is ethical responsibility for measles victims, crippled by polio or barren by rubella. The other is the budget. For example, an MMR vaccine, i.e. rubella, measles and mumps, is a budget cost of about tens of zlotys, while the cost of treating infectious diseases if hospitalisation is necessary It's at least a few thousand zlotys per unit. Therefore, please make it clear to those who support your demands that this responsibility is also a full responsibility, starting with criminal liability for children's life and health, to economic responsibility, i.e. the need to bear the costs of treatment that could be avoided by vaccination. It is the 21st century and the progress of medicine, which was dreamed of 100 years ago not only by doctors, but above all by sick and dying, but by the activities of disinformation movements, because it should be described as such, people give up the best solutions for them themselves. Modern does not support the solutions contained in this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u373	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party - the Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u374	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats, I am pleased to present my position on this project. Ladies and gentlemen! The Club of the Polish People's Party and the European Union of Democrats from the beginning has categorically been against the liberalisation of legislation on compulsory vaccination in Poland. The consequences of compulsory vaccinations can be disastrous. The situation of the last few days could prove that. The measles have been going crazy in Poland lately. Several dozens of people have already developed this disease. It's not an epidemic yet, but there's nothing to be happy about. According to WHO data, 37 people died of measles in Europe in the last year. We don't want any more of them. Ladies and gentlemen! PiS first brought on Poland a disease of hatred, and now contributes to bringing in other diseases. Isn't that right? Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! I appeal to you, especially to doctors, Mr Latos, who, despite their profession, supported the citizens' bill at first reading. These are among others. Mr Latos, Members Alicja Kaczorowska, Krzysztof Ostrowski, Grzegorz Raczak, Andrzej Sośnierz and many other health professionals. Ladies and gentlemen! The golden rule of health care is Primum non nocere - first of all, do not harm. I appeal, ladies and gentlemen, to you, apply it and convince your party colleagues not to bring another misfortune to the Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u375	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Tomasz Latos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u376	Thank you very much, Marshal. I was hoping there wouldn't be any politics, the election was over, and yet there is. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, there are three readings in the Seym. It's not the city council where there's one reading and it's over, really. Please don't insinuate, I'm sorry, to put it bluntly, please don't speak falsely, what it meant to vote, to be referred to committee. Don't tell anyone anything unless you know it after three years in the Sejm, sorry. We've been against it from the beginning, and I think as much as 100 times less... [[That's not true!]] You haven't spoken as many times as I have against such actions and for mandatory vaccinations. It's just not right to say such untruthful things. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u377	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, the first question... [[I'll do it.]] You're welcome. I'm closing the list. First question, Mrs Alicja Chybicka, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u378	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the following question. My job is to fight for the lives of children for 43 years. I'm full of anxiety. Minister! I know you're not the applicant, on the contrary, but there's a question for you and a request. Well, there's a group of kids who have right now... between six months of age and 13 months, when there's measles on the vaccination schedule. We have measles in Poland. The measles are moving... It's enough that a mother and a baby in a stroller go to a store where someone will be infected, e.g. an employee from outside Poland, and we have plenty of them. Even today, in the store in Warsaw, I was served by such people. They're healthy, but they might get sick. Such children, little ones, without immunity, without antibodies - whatever we do, their fate will be unknown when they become infected with measles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, shouldn't emergency vaccination against measles be accelerated now? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u379	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you how many cases of measles have been reported in the Pomeranian Voivodeship, because we know this only from newspaper reports, as well as from other disease centres. We know from these reports that 1000 people have already been quarantined in Pomeranian Voivodeship. They were transported to the only hospital of infectious diseases in Gdansk. My next question: How do you want to compensate these hospitals for the sudden incidence of measles in Poland, because this number of diseases is constantly increasing? I would like to draw your attention further to the statement made by the Member that it is not true that you were against the legislation abolishing the obligation to immunize, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore That if you're against some bill, you're rejecting it, and you're not even leading her to the committee, and that's where you agreed to refer her to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u381	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is very sad that only after the death of a small child and the cases of further measles disease have there been reflections and it was possible to throw this hopeless project into the trash during the meeting of the joint committees. The record of this sitting should absolutely see every parent who still has any doubts about vaccination of their children. A group that did not find or present a single person who could support this hopeless and dangerous project with authority came to face a multi-member group of experts - educated and very wise people. Dear parents of little children! Never again be fooled by random witches to bring the greatest danger to your greatest treasures, our children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u383	Thank you, Member. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u384	Mrs. Marshal! For the first time, I feel ashamed standing on the stand that in the Polish Sejm we are talking about a law that abolishes the obligation to immunize. It's just a shame. It is a shame that from this place we talk about in vitro in terms of shrapnel on the forehead. It is a shame that in the Polish parliament in the 21st century, this law passes to further work. Thanks to you, thanks to you, this bill went to further work. Fortunately, you've come to your senses. It's a shame. And you -- I look at the applicants -- I just feel sorry for you, because I think it's really hard to live in such a lack of awareness and lack of knowledge, unless you're doing it out of pure cynicism. I hope that no more such law - never again - will go to the Polish Parliament. And I warn you not to be hypocritical. You have allowed for further debate a law in which we risk our children's lives and health. Hypocrisy in politics has its limits. Watch your backs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u385	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u386	Thank you, Marshal. As you can see just now, hypocrisy has no boundaries, because what we have just seen was the limitless hypocrisy. The matter is absolutely clear, and it is clear from the beginning, unless someone is secondary illiterate and does not know that there are three readings in the Polish Sejm before the bill goes to the Senate. [[Maybe you should've turned it down right away.]] [[You're rejecting others.]] But imagine, Mr President, that there are parliamentarians who treat people with respect and not in advance. You have to explain, translate, translate, and educate again, because you have to do it. [[But you don't respect children?]] On the other hand, Minister, the fact that this bill is, of course, rejected... Please tell us how this will have an impact, in the sense of who will be the beneficiary of this. Because, as I understand it, we've been dealing with a situation, not an epidemic, but a lot is being said now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] About infection, about infection, so I'd like you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u387	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u388	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I absolutely agree with the words of the Member that, above all, translate, translate and translate. And to be aware. If we are aware, I do not think that we will have to deal with such projects in this plenary room. But I would like to ask the Minister whether, in the current situation in which we have such a large number of migrant people around the world, there is no risk of imports of diseases unknown or not for many years now, and whether we should therefore be more rigorous about following the vaccination schedule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u389	Thank you very much, Member. The last question will be asked by Anna Maria Siarkowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u390	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mrs. Complainer! Dear High Izbo! I am the mother of three children and I will vaccinate all my children. Unfortunately, not for everything. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot inoculate my children against measles at least. Why? Today only MMR vaccine is available in Poland, which is combined. A monovalent measles vaccine that was previously available in Poland is not available. But what's more, this MMR vaccine is a non-ethical vaccine. It was produced on the basis of cell lines of children killed by abortion. I have a question of why, although such measures are in the world, such vaccines are in the world - ethical vaccines against measles, monovalent, they are not available to Polish patients. I'd like the government to also make sure it's possible to vaccinate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ethical vaccines. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u391	Thank you, Member. The chief health inspector of the country of Minister Jarosław Pinkas, please. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a good, important day for Polish parliamentarianism, a good day for those who are real profients of what happened today. I look at Mr Latos, who asked who was really going to be the beneficiary. The beneficiaries will primarily be those children who are contraindicated in vaccination. These are children who are ill, with lack of immunity, who have problems with immunity, children with chronic diseases, those who are waiting for transplants, as well as those who are at the age of 6 and 13 months. During this time, the antibodies that the children receive from their mothers are less. We can only vaccinate when the immune system allows it when it is mature. Vaccines in Poland have been registered since 9 months of age. And why are we going to vaccinate on the 13th? Because we know that the effect of immunization will be the best. There will be antibodies that will protect the baby in 95%. These children are children who may be in danger, but they don't have to. They don't have to be threatened when we're not selfish when we think about the health of the entire population, about us not vaccinated, we can carry a dramatically heavy virus that can be a dramatically heavy virus for children who can't be vaccinated, for adults who can't be vaccinated. There are people among us, remember that. There are people among us. They're the ones we're going to vaccinate for. I am looking at Prof. Chybicka and we are changing the vaccination calendar. This is the last time we're going to vaccinate children at the age of 10. This second vaccine will be - it is changed - from the age of 6 on the calendar in 2019. We are leading to the situation that children over 6 years of age from 2019 will be 100% secure, not 95%. We're fighting every percentage here. This percentage is perhaps the life of one child, two, three or several children. Medicine's moving forward, we're introducing new vaccines. In 2017, we introduced pneumococcal vaccines. There shouldn't be that death we're talking about today. This death is a death that... I didn't want to actually empathize with you here, what this death is to me. He's a failure. It is the failure of all who have allowed the idea of not giving their own child the greatest benefit that has been offered to them to appear in someone's head. A child who died at 14 months of age could have been vaccinated at 13 months. What happened couldn't have happened. Ladies and gentlemen, our vaccines are safe, well tested, implemented rationally. These are the same vaccines as in the whole world, produced by huge pharmaceutical corporations that can't afford to fail. Everything is carefully checked, including by our systems, by the National Institute of Public Health, the former PZH, by the Office of Medicines Registration. We're registering NOPs. If there are doubts that we are doing this in the wrong way, I assure you that we are leaning on the problem at the moment, so that the issue of registration is extremely clear, that it does not arouse any controversy and that it is transparent, and that all doctors in Poland know how to do it. There's no criminalisation for a doctor who reports NOP. There isn't. He's got nothing to be afraid of. If there are doubts that we cannot judge this, I assure you that we will show you how it is done. If there are doubts, then this standard of evaluation will be improved and we will do it quickly, with an open court, so that no one is born in the mind the idea that something is hidden under the rug, that somewhere there is a conspiracy that, for example. We only want to generate measles now because we want to sell vaccines that are passed. Where in God's name is it born? Who would do such a thing? Why? We buy vaccines with a lot of money. There's an electronic surveillance system for their distribution. Information about any vaccine that has not been given before the end of the 6 months period... before the end of the period of validity, is immediately displayed in the system and the child will then be vaccinated in such a way that there is no possibility that the vaccine will be delayed. That's not gonna happen. This is an extremely well-functioning system. We can show you this. I can invite one of you to some voivodship health inspector to show you how this system works, that there's no way there's anything going on here that's causing you controversy. This can't happen. [[But it's not for us. It's over there, please.]] I'm looking at... [[Voice from the room: Ah, there...]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no conspiracy. False prophets have appeared. These false prophets have lost their position today. I hope that they will go where they belong forever: to absolute nothingness. Mrs Siarkowska - I look at Mrs Siarkowska - the fact is that in the 1960s, indeed, the cells of the child who died of abortion were obtained by a cell line. This cell line is used for... Actually, there are two cell lines. When it comes to these lines, it ends right now... If they're next, they'll be ethically obtained lines, maybe there'll be new technology. There are no other vaccines in the world that could be used for the Polish population. There's a monovalent vaccine, but it's in Japan, and there's another virus. Viruses have to do with this, especially measles viruses, that they mutate poorly, but they are subject to a specific territorialization and cannot be vaccinated with the Japanese virus of the Polish child. We're not gonna have an immunization effect. This can't be right. I would like to tell you that all the church authorities have made it clear: If there is no alternative vaccine, please vaccinate. At the same time, I would like to present to you my humble statement: Despite this dramatic evil, this one child probably saved hundreds of millions of children who had been given this vaccine for 60 years. It's such a moral category... Sometimes a great good can also be born of drama. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I'm on a formal issue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u393	Thank you very much, Minister. Formal conclusion. You're welcome, Mrs. Margaret Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u394	Thank you very much. Minister! I don't want to take the time here, but I'd like to ask you to answer my questions in writing, okay? I asked for statistics on Pomorskie voivodship, it's about how many deaths and all that. So I don't want time right now... [[Chief Health Inspector Jarosław Pinkas: This is what we do right away, Mrs Pinkas.]] Oh, unless it is. All you have to do is give me a card... [[Chief Health Inspector Jarosław Pinkas: Please.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u395	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, Ms Justyna Socha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u396	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Messengers, Dear Members, Minister! Minister! For me, as a mother, as citizens of our country, it is painful that, even though a month has passed since the first reading of the citizens' committee's draft of the Citizens' Initiative of the Association of Nationals, none of you, even the rapporteurs of the opposition clubs, have read the draft with justification. It's... What I am experiencing is the caricature of democracy, an attempt to block debate, a fair debate and dialogue at today's committee meeting. This is the caricature of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! Again here, in the sitting room, I stress that the project with which we come here, with which I come on behalf of 120,000. the victims of the current system are not concerned with the abolition of vaccinations, which you are stubbornly repeating. The project concerns the introduction of voluntary preventive vaccinations in the absence of public participation with the possibility of imposing an obligation on the public in the event of an epidemic or an outbreak. Such rules are, for example. in Germany, such rules are in 20 European countries. You're talking about progress, modernity. This is precisely the progress we are seeking, the respect for Polish parents. Don't you see that? Even the European Commission stressed this in its report: Poland has recorded a record decline in confidence in vaccination. Fines don't work, Minister. Fines cause rebellion. I think the Minister is aware of that. We want to help you. We've come with a project to solve this problem, and we're being treated as a threat. - we, people harmed by this system, who were alone when our children experienced unwanted vaccination reactions in a country which forces vaccination but is not responsible for the resulting complications. There's no compensation fund. I stress that such funds have been in 14 European countries for many years, since the 1960s. There is no compensation for the victims of vaccination complications, and no one denies the fact that they occur, including the heavy ones. The Minister of Health's decree states that a child may experience sepsis after vaccination, this sepsis, encephalitis, convulsions, and even death. We support these people, help them defend themselves before the courts. There are already many such cases, and soon, I hope, will be favorable judgments of the court which will show you all what hypocrisy is to support this system that we have in Poland today. Ladies and gentlemen! We asked the presidents of the Joint Commission: Health and Social Policy and Family Policy to postpone the debate date from Friday, which we were warned about on Tuesday, at the end of November, to invite here international experts, such as Professor Chris Exley from the UK, a professor of chemistry, who conducted pioneer research on the content of aluminium vaccines in the brain of children with autism. This man was ready to come here. We also invited the Nobel Prize winners here. Professor Luc Montagnier, the man who received the Nobel Prize for the discovery of HIV, including other experts. And do you know why they're from abroad? Because Polish doctors, even for the support of debate, dialogue, doctors of Members, are to stand at a hearing in the doctor's chambers. What country do we live in? This is censorship. This is not a debate, this is not a dialogue. This is a totalitarian country where you can't talk about the dark side of vaccination, because I think we all know that there's no subject that only has a white and black side. Ladies and gentlemen! At today's meeting of the committee, many members of the committee and guests welcomed the mention by Mr Ostrowski of the conflict of interest of experts. That's the taboo theme. Many of you know that this is a huge problem, and I think it's also on the government side, but everyone's afraid to talk about it. It doesn't make you trust me. You know that it is enough to travel several hundred kilometres to the West and there experts who advise on vaccinations make statements about the absence of conflict of interest before each meeting of the committee which decides on vaccines given to children. Why are we talking about taboos? Who are you afraid of? Big corporations? And you're not afraid of the anger of your parents who are already so determined that they go out in 20,000. On the street? You're not afraid of their anger, you're not afraid of their determination? If you reject this project, if you block the debate, these parents will be even more determined and it will not be the end of this fight, it will only be the beginning. Already today I announced that we are moving on with another civic project called Freedom and Health, whose aim is to stop censoring doctors by medical chambers. This project will allow alternative medical facilities to be created as in other civilized countries. It will be voluntary for doctors to belong to these chambers. The patient and doctor will also have the right to choose treatment as is in Switzerland, as is in Germany, Austria. This is the implementation of human rights and patient rights. Ladies and gentlemen! By blocking the debate, because what happened today at the committee meeting was not a debate, it was a monologue, you give even more fuel to determined parents. As I mentioned at the first reading, you're generating real anti-vaccine movements. We're in favour of free choice, we're not anti-vaccines. The experts we wanted to invite here to the Sejm wanted to present a problem that results from the applied adjuvants, i.e. aluminum compounds, and preservatives, mercury compounds, which are part of vaccines. Professor Chris Exley says that since it is a risk, it should be considered whether vaccines containing an aluminium adjuvant should not be given to people whose lives are at risk due to the lack of vaccination and not to all children as they fly. We talked here about the death of a child as a result of sepsis in Poznań. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Figlerovich said for one of the newspapers that the absence of a vaccine was not the cause of the death of a child from Poznan. And that should cut this discussion off. It is worth noting, however, that the Ministry of Health bought the vaccine cheaper, covering only 10 types of pneumococci, while the latter, first, contains less aluminum, which I mentioned, second, includes 13 types of pneumococci, including those which most often cause infections in Poland. Polish parents do not want this cheaper vaccine. And what proof do I have of that? In fact, the Ministry announced the action of the "Spring without pneumokoks" to use thousands of unused vaccines with 10 types of pneumokoks unwanted by Polish parents. It was a miracle, because the expiration date was June 30th. Yes, there is, Minister, a problem with unused vaccines. We're well aware of that. Let us also remind you of the Lubuskie voivodship. To this day, no one has been responsible for giving children several hundred doses of vaccines that were intended for disposal. They were disposed of - it was cheap - in the bodies of children. In such a mandatory vaccination system we live, such a vaccination system is forced by Polish parents, and it is a system in which there is an unbelievable system of safety analysis, an incredible system of registration of unwanted vaccination reactions. I mentioned it. The experts say he's unbelievable. I will quote Prof. Mirosław Wysocki, former director of the State Hygiene Plant, European Week of Stephen 2017: There is no discussion that we should record unwanted vaccination reactions better than before. This is enough evidence to accept the solutions that our citizens' project is proposing. There's nothing anti-vaccine about that. A reliable record of unwanted vaccination reactions will result in more trust from parents who will see that someone is leaning over their tragedy, not slipping away, saying that it was an accident. Moreover, there is no judicial review of this system. What proof do I have? This is the judgment of the Administrative Court of April 2017. The baby's unconscious. One of the experts intervened in the application NOP as heavy by a doctor, changing his qualification to: mild. And why is that? Since a severe adverse vaccine reaction requires notification of the main pharmaceutical inspection and discontinuation of the vaccine, which may be defective. But there's no judicial review. Everything's fine. According to our project, the parent will be able to file a complaint with the administrative court if something like this happens. At the moment, the court rejected such a complaint, saying that there was no cognition. There is no supervision of the system of registration of unwanted vaccine reactions, and on this basis we assess whether Polish children are safe. So we have proof that they're not safe. In addition, there is a very important issue that Dr. Katarzyna Bross-Walderdorff, who was in front of the medical court, is currently being tried. What did she say? She said that when it comes to newborn babies, they are vaccinated children who have received 1, 2, 3, 5 points on the Apgar scale, i.e. sick children, the ones we are supposed to protect by vaccinating, right. But they in Poland are vaccinated and suffer from complications of vaccines, of course not included in the system. I can give you two examples: a newborn baby from Giżycka died of pneumonia, congenital pneumonia, unrecognized. This is a contraindication according to the manufacturer. Another baby. The parents sued the State Treasury by PLN 2 million for complications of BCG vaccine. The baby has multiple bone tuberculosis, abscess fires in the brain, it's disabled. The doctors didn't give him a chance to survive. Inoculated with congenital immunodeficiency, although the manufacturer informs that this is a contraindication. After all, 20 years ago, the Germans withdrew this vaccine precisely because of the social unacceptability of frequent complications after this vaccine, e.g. abscessed lymph node lesions that must be surgically removed, even in one in 100 vaccinated children. But it's not in the statistics, so we can be cool, it's okay. Let's tell our parents it's safe and they have to listen to us: we're the authorities, you have to listen to us. Even pointing out these system flaws, pretending everything's okay? This is hypocrisy. You also make fun of autism many times. Please, this is an Italian leaflet of the DTP vaccine used also in Poland. The manufacturer lists SIDS among adverse reactions, i.e. sudden crib death, and mentions autism. These side effects are expected to occur with this vaccine. Why is this not mentioned in Polish leaflets? Please, this is the judgment of the Italian Court of 2014 which will order the Italian Treasury to compensate the State for the autism that followed the highly associated vaccine. Ladies and gentlemen! Another point, very important, is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights Salvetti against Italy. In this judgment, the European Court of Human Rights points out that vaccination obligations in a country where there is no [[♪ The bell ♪]] The compensation fund, it violates human rights. Art. The 8th Convention on Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a tangible proof that human rights are being violated in Poland and such complaints will fall apart, the more sanctions will be imposed for vaccination. I'd like to recap, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u397	But please, you have half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u398	I'm summing up. So what are we seeing in the media right now? There are as many measles as in previous years, e.g. in 2016 We perceive this unambiguously: as a terror of pharmaceutical companies putting against the wall government, politicians, parents, citizens who came with a project to introduce voluntary vaccination in Poland. Each case is publicised as if it were deaths, not diseases that are normal in the last 10 years, at the same level.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u399	Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u400	So to sum up, we lost the battle, but it's not the end, it's the beginning, because there's no group more determined than the parents whose children have experienced the complications of the vaccinations that you've ignored today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u401	Thank you very much, ma'am, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u402	...in which you repeat as a mantra that vaccinations are just swelling and fever. That's not true, that's not true. And we - I guarantee you that both me and the members of the association and all those who supported the project - will not stop until we have brought about a system like that in 20 European countries where parents are respected...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u403	Thank you so much. You're already out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u404	...and they're not being treated like a thoughtless herd. We're parents, we're people, we have our rights, and we're gonna ask them to respect whether you want it or not. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u405	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur for the committee by Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I apologise in advance that, given the circumstances, I will have to go beyond the standard summary made by the rapporteur, where the speakers are thanked. The discussion also raised a number of issues that need to be addressed, and the Minister in this formula is no longer able to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! Anyone who takes a calm look at this debate, looks at it and listens to it, will come to the conclusion that I was right - I'm sorry that I said so - whether we had it, that we really needed a discussion on this matter. Sending the project back without any discussion will not get far. There is a need for dialogue on this issue, there is a need for dialogue, even if they do not, we know that Members will change their mind about rejecting this project. But we need to talk, and perhaps this dialogue was not enough, about many different aspects related to vaccinations. Ladies and gentlemen! Just so we're clear, I'm also saying this as a doctor who's also politically called to the board on this issue. It is known that all medical procedures, even the most trivial ones, can cause such or other complications, even if they occur very rarely. These complications, of course, smaller or larger, may also be associated with vaccinations. But that doesn't mean - and every time, having all kinds of debates, radio or other, with the environments of people who are opposed to vaccination, I explain... There are a lot of arguments for getting vaccinated. I will say more, it is one of the greatest discoveries and achievements of medicine in the last 100 years and we should not forget that. Ladies and gentlemen! I remember when polio patients went to school. Later, of course, they died prematurely. I remember situations like this. I also remember many other tragedies related to infectious diseases. Luckily, they were eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that various other therapies, medicines like this or other antibiotics, all of this can cause certain complications, problems, etc. There may be some problems, such as that, but that's why we don't charge therapy. And in these categories, ladies and gentlemen, vaccination should be treated. I will answer the question immediately, because the Minister answered them: there is no quarantine problem in any voivodship in Poland. Yes, there have been situations where a certain group of people have been vaccinated, and there is no quarantine problem, because we have no epidemic, ladies and gentlemen. And it is true, in this respect, that you were right about the number of diseases in 2016, but also in 2009, that was one hundred and dozens of cases. Even if there are more cases by the end of the year for almost two months and we're, I don't know, 200, there's no epidemic anyway. It's not in these categories, ladies and gentlemen, it's up to you to approach the case. This is definitely where everyone needs to be calmed down. Of course, it's also true what the Professor quoted... Yeah, we probably still have a lot of work to do on the right, better recording of unwanted vaccine reactions. Ladies and gentlemen, in many areas of medicine, we still have a lot to improve, to catch up on. That's the reality. On the other hand, it is not that the government does not see this problem and that nothing will happen in the future, also as regards issues related to these individual ones, I think, cases where there is a problem of compensation. As for the safety of vaccines, ladies and gentlemen, we have no reason to doubt both the safety of vaccinations and individual vaccines in Poland. The health inspection in Poland really is a very good service, which works very well. I will risk saying that better than in many other countries, including Western Europe, because we have this service very hierarchized and very orderly. This makes reporting very good and controls also stand at a very high level. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that vaccination is, of course, also certain safety for those who, for various reasons, cannot be vaccinated. And if there is something to be discussed here and something to be remembered here, debating over political divisions, I will stress it once again, that - and that is what I meant, you don't have Prof. Chybicka, but I think that we will agree on that - that if we are talking about a certain education, then perhaps more diligence than at the moment in the approach to qualifying for vaccination. This should not, of course, be a routine operation. It is, in some sense, something common for a POZ doctor, but this particular care should be taken to explain to parents on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to ensure that, once a child can be vaccinated on a given day, this vaccination took place on a given day, because in a few days the situation can actually be different. But all of this, ladies and gentlemen, in most of the centres, is functioning and functioning very well, and where it functions worse, perhaps as a result of this debate, this discussion will change. It's about autism. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: autism is a disease in a rather complicated way, because it is certainly not monogenically, but multigenely, genetically dependent. Of course, there may be factors that may provoke - let experts say here - the induction of this disease, but the vaccine in the genome does not interfere, therefore we are dealing with coincidences, certain events and certain facts - at the moment there was an incident, which is in this case vaccination, and there was a similar age of illness. Let's remember that. At that time, of course, there were also a number of other events that are not related, I understand, to the occurrence of this disease. Of course, everything I'm talking about here shows one thing. Ladies and gentlemen, we all, everyone in this room and outside this room, all doctors, all politicians, all social activists such or other movements, places, organizations, must have a lot, a lot of respect and understanding for the citizen, for his perhaps ignorance, for his fears and fears, for such actions which later determine certain, at least within the meaning of the doctor, but not only irresponsible or unreasonable decisions. And to this end - I would stress once again: just for this purpose - in addition to the political declaration that we have submitted to the elections, we have sent this proposal to the committee. And really, ladies and gentlemen, let's at least end this policy-making thing. There's no other bottom here because he hasn't been here since the beginning. And don't insinuate that someone's gonna convince or convince anyone. etc. There was no other bottom here. Let us argue about other matters, let us argue about expenditure on health care, about what to reform first and what to reform second and third. However, let us not argue about issues that are really related to the lives and health of citizens. On this matter, we should speak with one voice. And let's speak with one voice. Just understand that really communicating to citizens or to a group of citizens: we know better, and that everything we have to say about this is really ineffective, because it will be as we have heard - five, and in a moment ten or not I know how many projects and even more signatures. We need to get the message that the state is responsible, that the government is responsible, that Parliament is responsible, and that we make these decisions not ad hoc, not politically, but with some reflection and after reflection, in an optimal and best way, to the citizens in Poland, in this situation, which we can observe in the case of preventive actions. Ladies and gentlemen, it so happens that research into preventive actions, free preventive actions, where there is no queue, is reported to be 50/60% the persons to whom it is dedicated. There are countries where 90% of people report. And let's understand that that's the difference. When it comes to applying for research in the framework of preventive actions of ninety-two percent of citizens in Poland, there may be no need for compulsory vaccination, because citizens will be so aware of the needs, situations and threats themselves, including the needs of the entire population of people who live in the area, that they will be able to make these decisions individually or take them after talking to their family doctor. Unfortunately, it is not. We still have a huge problem with cancer, for example. And, ladies and gentlemen, the vaccination obligation must therefore be maintained. Yeah, we do. That's the reality here. Finally, while we are talking about a certain responsibility of doctors, let me - because here too this responsibility of one club has been invoked - that, ladies and gentlemen, I will ask about the responsibility of doctors who are in this Chamber smoking cigarettes and setting a bad example for other citizens. How many thousands or tens of thousands die every year - not 100, not 200, how many thousands die - because of this? Maybe, I don't know, the Chief Medical Council should discipline doctors who smoke cigarettes and set a bad example for citizens or do... [[Or drink vodka, huh?]] Yes. Or they do other bad things. [[They're eating badly.]] So please, ladies and gentlemen, let us treat the matter with moderation, proper proportion and proper respect. Let us also remember about doctors - because there are some - who unfortunately promote, also in our country, that they do not vaccinate. Not to discuss in committee and reject the project at second or third reading, just to avoid vaccination. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the problem, and this is the problem of my environment, my medical environment. It is about how to talk to these representatives of our profession to stop this kind of activity. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I would like to thank all those who spoke in the discussion. I assume the best will of all parties. Well, it's a good thing this week. [[♪ The bell ♪]] we have managed to lead to a second reading. I understand there will be a third reading tomorrow and this matter will be completed, at least in the sense of the project itself, but unfortunately it will not be completed in the sense of education, translation and talking to society properly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u407	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 8 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. First - Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to share very optimistic information with you today, as it is expected to be a high turnout and a great success of the initiative taken by the Council of the Children and Youth of the Republic of Poland at the Minister of National Education, which, many months ago, during the meeting of the parliamentary team on matters of dignity, community and involving preparation and implementation of the celebrations of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, made a declaration, simply stated that she wanted to bring the whole school youth community with teachers, educators and parents to be invited to sing at hours on Friday before 11 November. 11.11 of the national anthem. So? And it turns out that many months of preparatory, organizational, mobilization work, both online, on the fanpage of the council, and through peer communication of information about this event, had an unexpected, very positive effect. Here we are, ladies and gentlemen, 20,000. schools, educational institutions from all over Poland reported access to participate on tomorrow, 9 November, including, you might even say, patriotic happening. I mean, all the young people with their teachers, parents, and educators will sing the whole hymn. Why am I talking about this? Because it is worth thanking the young people for giving us such a phenomenal example that, apart from all disputes and passions, they can take an initiative involving the entire school community in this common patriotic testimony. Thank you, then, for the advice of children and young people. You young people are the ones who started this machine. It's a great work of yours. Now it is up to the organizers of this project in schools to make sure that the participants, the singers, do not come down from the melody line and possibly do not get lost when it comes to the fidelity of the text. I hope that this will also be carried out in an authentic and careful manner. I invite you on behalf of the Council of the Children and Youth of the Republic of Poland at the Minister of National Education - this was done today by the Minister and the members of the Council at a press conference - to sing tomorrow together with the youth of the anthem. You know that we will repeat this act on 11 November when all Poland will sing the national anthem. It's probably gonna be fun and we're gonna enjoy it together. The event will take place tomorrow. I don't know how the High House will behave, because then we have a vote. Who knows if the Minister will encourage us to sing at hours. 11.11 with all the young people in Poland the anthem. At the same time, my friends, I would like to thank all of you who, in your daily work, will be sewn up in your offices, offices, institutions, you are doing your organic work to make the state work so that administrative institutions and administrative initiatives they were expensive and effective for citizens. I also think of all the services and people working in them here in the Seym. I express my gratitude for your work for the Independent, your daily care for the process of making law, so that it is the best possible, as well as for taking care of the comfort of our, parliamentary and senatorial work. For the Sejm and all of you who care for it also constitute a pattern of concern for the Independent. Thank you for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u409	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Polek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u410	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On August 26, 2018, two great heroes of independence held patriotic ceremonies in Vyzyszew nad Pilica. The number of people gathered, noble guests headed by the Senate Marshal of the Republic of Poland, Mr Stanisław Karczewski, Mr Jan Szyszko, and Mr Andrzej Melak, with the participation of the Polish Army, prayed and worshiped General Antoni Madaliński, who had been in Przybyszew for 214 years, and Deputy Marshal of the First Free Sejm after the fall of communism to Henryk Bąk, who had been in Przybyszew for 20 years. The special letter was sent by the President of Law and Justice by Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. Today, together with Mr Dariusz Bąk, we would like to quote parts of the speech by Mrs Halina Najda, a Polish language teacher at the High School of General Education. The National Army in Białobrzeg, which well illustrated our compatriots in the field of regaining independence by Poland. I am now quoting from Mrs Najda's speech: We have come here today to stop for a moment and to reflect on events far away and close at the same time. We want to bend over the graves of two heroes, supposedly ordinary, if you can talk about people who have spent their entire lives sacrificing their country, fighting for its independence. So our celebration has two heroes - General Antoni Józef Madaliński, who was born in the 18th century, and Marshal Henryk Bąk living in the 20th century. Both, thanks to their attitudes, were forever in the history of Poland and at the same time somewhat wrongly forgotten. This is what the authors of dissertations, extensive scientific studies, biographies or memories speak of both. Madalinski must be spoken of in the context of the Bar Confederation and the Kościuszko Insurrection, because these are events in which he participated. We all live now on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence. It is a good time to realize that after a period of greatness of our homeland came slavery preceded by corruption of customs and separation from our own culture. The Bar Confederation is the first national break in defence of the Holy Faith, the first loud and armed Poles for the Russian flood, and at the same time an attempt to overcome themselves - weaknesses, national flaws and lack of unity. The Bar Confederates, to whom Madaliński belonged, fought bloody battles against Moscow and, despite their defeat, did much. The resistance lasted 50 months. The confederates bled out, but for the most difficult time of partitions, the national captivity built a wall in their hearts that was not on the side of the most dangerous - the Russian flood and was guarded before Poland woke up from sleep, hardened, rejuvenated. It may surprise us today how little we know about the Bar, how few warm memories in the hearts of men. Where are the relics, the gutters, the uniforms, the sacred swords, the banners and the songs? - asks Władysław Konopczyński, author of the two-volume work of the Bar Confederation. And they deserve to be remembered. And he deserved to be remembered by Antoni Józef Madaliński, because he also stood up for the faith, loved the nation and, together with others, resisted Moscow. And there, in the Bar, it killed the heart of Poland, and in Warsaw, King Staś and half of the Senate stretched their hands to Russia, asking for military help against their own people. Having become addicted before, they were now forced to do this shameful attitude. For us, this is a memento and an astonishing resemblance of the attitudes of some of our fellow countrymen. And the gene. Madaliński was among the patriots who were insulted by lies, assigning them ignorance, backwardness, lack of progressiveness. In the 20th century. We've come to face the same enemy. There - stripping, here - World War II and two invaders. The end of the Second War for the world, but not for Poland. We still need to survive the anti-Soviet uprising, as much as in its pronunciation similar to the bar confederation. And again, defeat, but internal resistance continues. The confirmation of this truth is the life and activities of the second hero today - Henry the Fare. The young 16-year-old boy is not afraid to start his activity against Communism supporters, against the degradation of the village and Polish culture. He creates the Conspiracy Defense of PSL, which later in 1950 he transforms into the Polish Boys' Stormock. Fascinated by the folk movement [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mikołajczyka creates from scratch a underground structure of an organization that is supposed to radiate across the country. He learns, studies, suffers persecution and continues to expand his work to different backgrounds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u411	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Bąk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u412	The continuation of the speech by Professor Halina Najda at the ceremony at the tombs of the heroes of independence in Vydzyszew. We read there: It is not difficult to find a common denominator for the attitudes and fights of both heroes. It's rather amazing how much they have in common. Or is it simply Henryk Bąk becoming the heir to the vault of thought and work of General Madaliński? For, behold, they consecrate a great part of their lives to their homeland: they both loved their homeland and wanted it to be free and independent from foreign influences. Both had to face the same enemy. Having this wide view of the world, they understood how difficult it is to overcome, it is dangerous to depend on foreign influences, how disastrous the eastern winds are for our culture. Madaliński will carry the banner of freedom from the Bar towards Krakow and will take part in Kościuszko insurrection, will fight at Racławice and Szczekocinas, and earlier, in 1792, together with his brigade in the Polish-Russian war. Henryk Bąk is setting up a temporary Committee of the Independent Trade Union of Farmers, and his Polish peasant raid is practicing in the use of weapons. There's a struggle going on, though there's more intellect here than firearms. They are both messengers to the Sejm. Madaliński participates in the work of the Four Year Sejm, gives speeches, supports the work of the Constitution on 3 May. Henryk Bąk is Vice-Marshal of the first free Polish parliament after the fall of communism. For their noble activity they are both in prison - Madaliński arrested by the Austrians, released to the Prussians, imprisoned in Magdeburg until 1797. Henryk Bąk was interrogated, tortured and sentenced in 1953 to four times the death penalty, imprisoned on Rakowiecka, Rawicz and Wronki. Both survived the prison and after leaving they found their peaceful marina in the Mazowiecka village. Similar were their personalities and programs. If it were Fr. Zbigniew Godlewski called them back to the report, as he did in 2008 during the consecration of the board of the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm at Kolem in the church of St. Józef on Deotymy street, and asked who they were defending, General Madaliński would answer: I defended the holy, Catholic faith, went to the spiritual conquest of the nation, resisted Moscow, wanted freedom for my homeland and wanted the homeland of a just, powerful spirit. And listened to these words by Henryk Bąk: me and my associates from the organization and conspiracy, Polish patriots imprisoned and murdered by Communists of the Homeland we defended! We defended culture! Faith was defended! Polish village and Polish farmer we defended! Is it possible, given the size of the forces and historical circumstances? Yes, because they were steadfast and brave. Recklessness dictated their ways of fighting, also conspiracy, and belief in the right values allowed them to plan national projects. Both wanted Poland free from foreign influence, especially Russian influence. They were distinguished by their purity of intentions, and work for the nation and the Polish village had a dimension of concrete actions, remembered by neighbors and acquaintances. Both can be read in the Great Book of Polish Patriots. Bar confederates had their slogan: either to die or to win, Henryk Bąk: homeland, truth, work. What about us? Are their worlds also our world? Their ideals are ours? Do we have the courage to stand up for truth, faith, country, honor, reason? Maybe it's time for questions and answers. High Seym! Such a Polish village, Polish communities - as in the presented words of Prof. Halina Najda - perceive national heroes. They build authority among young people. Today, the Government of Law and Justice, Mr President [[♪ The bell ♪]] They dignifiedly accept the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, and let's enjoy it. Praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u413	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u414	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! More than a hundred young people concentrated in various organisations have sent an open letter, a letter to us, parliamentarians, in which they raise a very important issue, namely the election of the Ombudsman. The letter appeared on social media, it is a very important voice, but above all smart and mature. But since this letter has been addressed to us, I believe that the plenary room is the best place to read it to emphasize that the opinion of these young people is also important to us. For the time being, I'm going to read the excerpts: Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! We address you as the youngest generation of Polish citizens, for whom it is extremely important to choose a new Ombudsman for children's rights. For several months we have witnessed events that did not help build the weight of the office most important for almost 7 million citizens of the Republic of Poland - the Ombudsman of the rights of the child. The Polish Parliament has already tried to select a new Ombudsman three times. The lengthy procedure demonstrates a negative approach to choosing the right person for the Ombudsman's office, as well as the level of parliamentary debate on this issue, which we regret. Our appeal has no party color. The Ombudsman's position should be apart, so we appeal to you for an agreement over divisions in this extremely important and priority case for the Polish state. We ask you to appoint a new Ombudsman for the welfare of Polish children and families as soon as possible. It is the most important state office to uphold the rights of the child, who is taking steps to ensure that the child is fully and harmoniously developed with respect for his dignity and subjectivity. We do not want to suggest any particular choice for you. However, we want the candidate to be acceptable to everyone. We want to put aside daily political disputes that digest Polish reality and to select a person who will dignifiedly represent an extremely large group of people in our homeland. We should also be able to participate in the selection process which is so important for the Polish official. Therefore, we ask that in order to ensure the welfare of Polish children and families through consensus and regardless of party colours, you choose a candidate or candidate who can act in the interest of the youngest with each party of the political barricade. At the very end we want to share with you a quote from one of the most outstanding Polish educators, called the spokesperson for the rights of the child, Janusz Korczak: there are no children, there are people. Remembering this, we ask that almost 7 million Polish citizens be taken seriously and that their attorney and spokesman be chosen. High Izbo! I hope that we will fulfill this request and this appeal will come to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u415	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Pyzik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we considered projects related to the protection and maintenance of the graves of the heroes of our national history. Along with the government project to create a register of veterans' burial sites for freedom and independence, a project following the petition of veterans and heroes of the Warsaw Uprising appeared. This voice of the citizens particularly well deserved concerns the legal protection of the graves of war heroes so that they are not wound up and the means to maintain them. I hope that, in the framework of the submitted government project, there will be funds allocated, in addition to construction, maintenance and registration, also to research and search for unknown resting places for veterans fighting for freedom and independence. The collective memory of local communities has often preserved traces of certain places where soldiers of September 1939 or the resistance can rest. The Institute of National Remembrance, of course, is gradually verifying these stories within its capabilities. However, I think that the bones of almost forgotten heroes, especially those of September, demand greater commitment from us. In addition, I hope that the agreements that will be concluded within the framework of the government project concerning the maintenance of veterans' graves and heroes will be able to join, among others. educational establishments, making such care a permanent element of the education of their pupils. Nothing so much falls into the memory of a young man as his own activity and work in preserving the memory of specific people who put the first verses of our national anthem into action with the consecration of their own blood and life. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u417	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member from Pomerania, I would like to ask about investments that are important for the inhabitants of Pomerania. We have already started a discussion in the Sejm about the budget of our country for 2019. Unfortunately, this is not a good budget for the inhabitants of Pomeranian Voivodship. I would like to ask politely why the draft budget for next year does not have the resources to compensate the people for the damage and nuisance planned by the government in the excavation of the Vistula mine. I ignore the fact that I am opposed to this excavation, that it has no economic justification. President Kaczyński dug up a pole that was supposed to be a pole at the site of this excavation. That pole they stole somehow, it's not here now. I'm going back to those compensations promised by the Ministry and the current government. A large part of the inhabitants of the district of Nowodworki opposes the construction of this excavation by measuring. Apart from the destruction of flora and fauna, they fear destruction of local roads, especially roads from the New Gdansk Court to the Maritime Krynica, it is the road 501, and roads from Gdansk to Sztutów, i.e. roads 502, which are access roads to the towns of Krynica Morska, Stegna and Sztutowo. They are in very poor technical condition. During discussions with the government, in which I also participated, the residents demand that these roads be renovated in connection with the construction of the excavation planned by the current government. Why didn't the government in the draft budget for 2019 even predict a zloty for these voivodship roads? I mean, he promised. You guys want to build this dig. The inhabitants of the district of Nowodworski deserve a good, safe and comfortable access to their localities. Speaking to the inhabitants, I can hear their fear of destroying these roads completely by multi-ton trucks that will support the possible construction of the excavation of the Vistula mine. Please support, please, you people from PiS, because you have a majority in the Seym, my amendment to the budget for the next year, i.e. 2019, in which I ask you to use the money for the design and construction of new voivodeship roads in the district of Nowodwor. The people really deserve to keep their word, the more that you promised them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u419	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Waldemar Andzel made his statement in writing. Please, Mr Jacek Wilk, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u420	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This speech I would like to ask for a very serious discussion, to start a serious discussion about the state of Polish mining and coal mine. As far as this sector of the economy is concerned, once actually crucial for Poland, there are usually two such extreme approaches. First: to subsidize, to supplement at each stage at all times. Two: privatize as soon as possible. A reckless approach to this in both cases leads astray and is, of course, wrong, as demonstrated by a very clear example of the Krupinski mine. The Krupinski Mine, very well-functioning, very well-armed, very technically well-protected and well-connected in terms of transport, was put into bankruptcy and intended for liquidation, although this mine has access to very large, one of the largest in Poland resources, deposits of coal, coke coal, the best type of coal, the deposit 405/1. Although it could function, as it is actually ready to continue mining, it was artificially bankrupted and put up for sale, while the main buyer was to be a company with a share capital of about 100 pounds, which shows that we are dealing with very deep irregularities. It certainly needs to be investigated. But that's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that in order to meet the needs of Polish mining and hard coal mines come out in an amazing way, one can say that saving modern technologies for all of us. These are mainly technologies related to the underground gasification of coal, as well as technologies for the production of synthetic liquid fuels from hard coal. In particular, this first technology gives improbable opportunities and hopes for Polish mining, because it is excellent for processing coal located below the level of 1200 m, i.e. those decks of hard coal, whose extraction under normal circumstances in the current technical state is not profitable. In short, their extraction by traditional methods is hardly an option at the moment. On the other hand, the underground coal gasification technology makes it possible to use these resources in such a way that hydrogen can be produced in huge quantities by this technology. It should be noted that the resources of hard coal located below the level of 1200 m, or the limit of current technical possibilities, are estimated to be very large, even huge, not to say: gigantic, because they are probably 10 times larger than those which are above 1200 m, and therefore, this is an incredible potential which gives Poland the ability to produce billions of cubic meters of hydrogen. Hydrogen can be used primarily in two ways, apart from many other applications. In the first place for electromobility purposes, i.e. the production of hydrogen electric cells, which, given the very rapid development of electromobility in Poland, can be even a salvation for us. Secondly, the same hydrogen can be used in so-called. distributed energy, i.e. in energy clusters, and given that it is considered to be the target model for the development of Polish energy, hydrogen can be simply a fuel, thanks to which Poland will safeguard its energy needs. In short, everything indicates that this approach to mining and coal mines can not only be a salvation for these mines, not only can it give them huge income, but it can also be a cause or factor for the huge development of Silesia, but also for all other areas that these new technologies will use, in particular hydrogen produced by this method. Poland therefore has enormous opportunities to use this technology and this wealth to the extent that it is estimated that this hydrogen can be exported in huge quantities. Therefore, I call on government factors to do so, and I ask that they reflect very strongly on the use of this technology, and first of all on the allocation of funds to build an experimental, demonstration hydrogen production facility using underground coal gasification technology in the Krupinski mine, which is ideally suited for this. Finally, the estimated revenues from this type of production may be so high that thanks to the financial means obtained from them we will even be able to repay Poland's public debts, including the most important debt of the pension system. Thank you so much for listening to the speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-11-08-sejm-71-2.u421	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. By 9 November 2018, at the latest by 3 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 18 min 40]]
