ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u1	I open the fiftieth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Rafał Ambrozik as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I ask the senators to take their seats. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its fiftieth meeting on 10 January 2018 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on Sobriety Education, Against Alcoholism and the Law on Security of Mass Events, to the Act on Limitation of Trade on Sundays and Holidays, and on some other days, to the Act on Amendment of the Law on Restructuring Law and to the Law on Administrative Procedure, to the Act on Amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure and to certain other laws, to the Act on Amendment of Certain Acts in order to increase citizens' participation in the selection, operation and control of certain public bodies. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 50th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fiftieth, fiftieth, second and fifty third Senate meetings in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point one and point two of the draft agenda, although the committee's reports on these items were submitted at a later date than set out in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that you change the order of consideration of point two, that is to agree to the detention and temporary arrest of Senator Stanisław Rogut, and consider this item as the last item on the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. State Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with items: Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws and consider this point as second point; the Act on electromobility and alternative fuels and consider this point as a third point; the Law on Special Arrangements for Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and consider this point as the fourth point; the Act on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements and consider this point as fifth point; the Law amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws and consider this point as point six; the Act amending certain laws in connection with the shortening of the period of retention of the staff files and their electronicisation and the examination of this point as point seven. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I can't see, I can't hear. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the fiftieth meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office. Dear Senators, a two-hour break will be ordered tomorrow at 12.00. The exhibition on the Marshal of Piłsudski in the Red Tram to the Independence Stop will be opened at 12:00 p.m. In addition, I would like to inform you that the subject of the item on consent to the detention and provisional arrest of Senator Stanisław Rogut may be information covered by the "confidential" clause. This point should therefore be considered after the confidentiality of the deliberations has been passed. In view of the procedural requirements and the organisational and technical issues that you will be informed about in detail, we will consider this item on the third day of the meeting. I would like to inform you that all the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the item on the first agenda: the 2018 Budget Act. The Senate Marshal sent the Budget Act to the Senate Committee. After considering the relevant budgetary parts, the Senate committees forwarded their opinions to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which produced a report on this matter on the basis of which. The text of the Act is contained in print No 700 and the committee's report In print No 700 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance adopted a report at its meeting yesterday evening. The report is contained in print No 700 A. The Commission, after hearing the opinions of all the Committees of Industry, the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Legal Affairs, Ethics and Senatorial Affairs, the Committee on Family, Senior Affairs and Social Policy, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Health, recommends that the High Senate adopt a law without amendments. The Commission has proposed 3 amendments in its reports. One amendment was proposed by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. This is an amendment, which consists in increasing the resources available to the Higher Mining Authority by PLN 290 000 by transferring funds intended to finance the organisation of Expo 2022 exhibitions in Poland from the special reserve. This amendment was not supported by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The reason for this decision was the fact that the Higher Mining Authority did not report in the course of its work on the budget the need for additional resources for the objective indicated in this amendment. The Commission also commented on the amendment tabled by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. This amendment proposed... In the amendment the applicants proposed to increase the funds available to the Patent Office of the Republic of Poland by PLN 2 million for the current expenditure of this unit. These measures were derived from part 79 of the Treasury's debt service. The Commission did not support this amendment because of the source of funding for this amendment. Expenditure on public debt management shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act, be expenditure of a priority nature. They are largely determined, the vast majority of these expenditures are due to current debt and budgetary developments. The committee therefore decided not to support this amendment. Finally, the third amendment proposed by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration is an amendment aimed at increasing the budget of regional accounting chambers by PLN 10 million. These measures were derived from part 83 of the Special Reserves from item 83. 8 Co-financing of projects carried out with European funds. The Commission also reacted negatively to this amendment. In previous years, regional clearing houses were given priority. In 2014, despite the freezing of the remuneration fund in the national budgetary sphere, additional remuneration of PLN 5 million and derivatives were included in the RIO. In 2015, despite the freezing of the remuneration fund in the state budget domain, additional remuneration of PLN 1 million of PLN 685 thousand and derivatives were taken into account for RIO. In 2016, an increase in the RIO wage fund of 4 million 736 thousand plus derivatives was taken into account, while in 2017, an increase in the RIO wage fund of 1.3% was taken into account. The Commission therefore considered this amendment to be unfounded. So much information about the committee's work. In its opinion, the Commission notes that the budget preserves the sustainability of public finances and remains within all of our basic dependencys Both EU and national "Convergence and stabilisation criteria for expenditure rules and rules related to debt reduction'. The budget shall comply with applicable law. Thank you very much. That concludes my report.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: I don't think there's...]] Well, there's one person who's late, but she is. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u4	Mr. Senator! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I would like to ask whether this very small increase in employment in the national economy, which has been included in the budget, has been justified in some way. And second question. However, what was justified by this strong inflation rate adopted for 2018? [[Thank you very much...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u5	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, because maybe we can combine the questions. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? Senator Wach. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u6	I would like to ask about the fate of the amendment tabled by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport concerning the increase in current expenditure in the case of the Polish Patent Office. I won't be developing this problem, but please answer the question... which is why it's a form of question. Tell me what source is appropriate... Because the substance of the matter is that the Patent Office should have higher funds, the more that it wanted to have higher income, which was actually not allowed. Because we can't change the income side as part of the amendment. Is that true? What possible source of these measures This small amendment could be accepted by the Committee on Budgets and Finance?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u7	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski, and then I'll ask the senator for answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Has the High Commission, including the President, generally widely known with budgetary matter, taken into account the need to implement decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal concerning inter alia. Disabled people's guardians? This issue has been behind in this government for at least 2 years, and in the previous government it was also behind, and in connection with the losing processes by the State Treasury, this amount is increasing, because it is from grants. Should not provision be made for, firstly, to remove the social problem or to minimise it, secondly, to pay back those obligations which resulted from the infringement?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u9	Mr. Senator, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u10	Thank you very much. The first question, the issue of employment. I would like to draw attention to the budgetary indicators. In 2018, average employment in the national economy, after strong growth in 2017, will increase by a further 0.8% , and the estimated rate of registered unemployment at the end of 2018 will fall to 6.4%. These are the indicators adopted for the preparation of this budget. Inflationary index adopted for this budget 2.3% It is fully located for inflation purposes defined by the National Bank of Poland. Thus, it is in line with the inflationary objective set by the National Bank of Poland. The Patent Office, as I mentioned in my report... The reason for the negative opinion on this amendment was to indicate as a source of funding for this amendment the resources for handling the Treasury debt. Is there another drawer of the budget from which it could be financed? I would give that question to the Minister present in the Chamber. The Commission did not hold such a discussion at its meeting. Finally, Senator Rulewski's question about the consequences of the Constitutional Court's judgment on the financing of carers of disabled persons. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy indicated in its report that the Senator had tabled such an amendment, but the committee did not agree with your proposal and prepared an opinion without amendments. Therefore, this amendment was rejected at the stage of the committee's work and was therefore not discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u11	Thank you very much. [[I guess that's it. Yeah, that's all the questions.]] Yeah, three questions, three answers. Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u12	Did you discuss the budget of the National Election Office? We are after the debate on amending the law, the explanatory memorandum talks about a significant increase in costs, the need to employ 5 000 additional officials, the President asked for a referendum on the Constitution, and the National Election Office has a budget of 10% smaller than before. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u14	Yes, Mr President, you are right that by accident the committee did not accept this proposal, but it is not to exempt you from the general clause that every senator, every group has a duty to respect the law, in this case to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. And I'd like to ask you. Maybe I'm overreacting to this question. Or you, as the author of the application to the Constitutional Tribunal, intend to be loyal to the previous attitude, or at least to your colleagues who have addressed and effectively carried out the request.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u15	Are there any more questions for the president? Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u16	Mr. Senator, I'm sure we've all been paying attention, probably with a surprise, to the fact that in section 039, in a situation where road investment is to be carried out, almost 10% of transport is planned. less than last year. Has this issue been raised, or are the budget appropriations sufficient, or are they a signal that something is not going on with these investments?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u17	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u18	Thank you very much. As regards the question of the budget of the National Election Office, it was not raised during the work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The report presented to our committee by the committee responsible for the opinion of this budget also does not contain any information on this subject, so this is a matter which does not exist in the reports. The question of transport, also in detail... In its report, the Committee on Infrastructure requested that no amendments be adopted. There was no information in the report of the Committee on Infrastructure on the discussion on this issue that Mr Senator raised. Nevertheless, I would like to inform you that one of the indicators adopted for the budget is an increase in investment expenditure These measures will be increased by 7.6% in real terms versus last year. So, in general, there's growth. in this detail section. The Commission has no information on the ongoing discussion on this subject. As for Senator Rulewski's question, I can only repeat what I said. The committee has been informed of your amendment. This amendment was not supported by the industry committee and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance in this part was guided by the opinion of the industry committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u19	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions to ask, so thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much, Mr President. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance shall be authorised to present the position of the Government in the course of parliamentary work. Welcome to our meeting, Minister of Finance, Mrs Teresa Czerwinska. Would the Minister like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the 2018 budget law adopted by the Polish Parliament on 11 January this year. I would like to briefly present macro-economic assumptions, but also the most important orientations in terms of spending policy, and perhaps a little more comment on the discussions that were at the meetings of the finance committees and industry committees. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2018 budget had to reconcile 2 issues, namely that it had to ensure the necessary sustainability of public finances on the one hand and that, on the other hand, the continuation and feasibility of the reforms which the Government of the Republic of Poland is leading. The budgetary policy of the current government takes into account the constraints on the expenditure side, those which arise from both national and EU law. And here I mean in particular: the upper limit of state budget expenditure This is defined by the stabilising expenditure rule set out in the Public Finance Act. and respect for 3% of the nominal deficit reference values GDP and government debt and the medium-term budgetary objective, which was defined by Poland as a structural deficit of 1% GDP. This policy, ladies and gentlemen, is targeted ♪ Like I said ♪ In order to restore the State's tax revenues, to seal the tax system and thus to ensure long-term sustainability of public finances. Of course, the solutions contained in the Budget Act are in line with the regulatory package contained in the so-called. A budget bill, that's in the bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, keep your voice down. Excuse me, Minister. Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. You're welcome.]] Thank you. ...of 8 December 2017 on specific arrangements for the implementation of the 2018 Budget Act. I will briefly describe the situation and assumptions of the macroeconomic picture, which are the basis for the preparation of the budget law. As far as gross domestic product is concerned, the quarterly profile of gross domestic product changes indicates that in the fourth quarter of 2016 the Polish economy returned to the path of rapid growth and the main growth factor remains domestic demand, including household consumption demand. This is also supported by systematic improvements in the labour market, and as labour demand increases, the unemployment rate is decreasing, where, as has already been noted on several occasions, we have historical minima with stable wage increases. Household income is additionally supported by transfers resulting from the implementation of the 500+ programme. Economic growth is expected to be 3.8% this year. The main factor, as I said, is domestic demand, including private consumption with an increasing role of gross fixed capital expenditure. The increasing rate of productivity growth of production factors and the gradual increase in the share of capital in GDP creation contribute to the acceleration of the growth rate of potential gross domestic product. We estimate that in 2018, as I mentioned, we will see a growth rate of 3.8% versus 2.9% in 2016. An additional support for the potential growth of the Polish economy will be the projected further decline in the level of unemployment, which will mitigate the impact of negative demographic trends. Ladies and gentlemen, if market forecasts are taken into account, such a market consensus resulting from the Reuters survey of December last year, a median of 4% can be expected. with expected inflation of 2,3%. It should be pointed out that the range of these forecasts is quite large. If you consider this spread as a measure of risk, you can say that there is a certain risk here as to the expectations expressed in the survey. In the event of real GDP growth, the forecasts range from 3.8% Up to 4.3%. Both the projected scale of growth and the structure of gross domestic product will support maintaining favourable conditions for the development of the Polish economy without generating significant imbalances. The rate of credit growth is expected to remain close to the nominal rate of GDP growth and the public finance deficit remains significantly below 3%. GDP. As regards balance of payments, a significant improvement in the balance of trade in goods in recent years is the main factor responsible for the record low in historical terms external imbalances of the Polish economy. We expect the current account deficit-to-GDP ratio to increase slightly compared to last year in 2018, but to remain relatively low. As regards the total balance of the current and capital account, it will remain positive at 1.8% GDP this year. Now the labour market. As far as these assumptions underlying the macroeconomic scenario are concerned, we have taken into account that there has been systematic improvement in the labour market situation and an increase in average employment in the national economy. We assume that these trends will also continue this year. We assumed that average employment in the national economy would increase by 0.8% this year. which will allow for a further reduction in the unemployment rate and the rate of unemployment recorded at the end of this year will be 6.4%. I would like to point out here in relation to those questions which were addressed to the senator, Mr Bierecki, that we have a record of low unemployment. If you compile a series of statistics from previous years, you will see that with such low unemployment, any further reduction is already a success. I would like to remind you that natural unemployment in the economy is estimated at 3 I therefore believe that these assumptions are very real and, at the same time, very positive about the budget. As regards the nominal growth rate of average wages in the national economy, it was assumed to be 4,7% in the financial year. For the macroeconomic scenario, we also assumed that the average annual price increase of consumer goods and services, i.e. the so-called. CPI, 2.3%. We also adopted a prudent scenario of the development of interest rates of the National Bank of Poland from the point of view of public finances. With regard to this year, we have assumed this scenario of zero real rates, which means that the nominal benchmark level and inflation level will be the same in the current year. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, for the purposes of the macroeconomic scenario, we have adopted such a technical path for the development of the Golden Course, which assumes that in the following quarters it will remain on average at 4,25 against the euro and 3,99 against the US dollar. This assumption, due to the costs of handling foreign debt and the level of debt in relation to gross domestic product, is a conservative assumption from the point of view of budgetary policy. This can be verified by looking at recent months and the appreciation of the gold in relation to the majority or the vast majority of currencies. As far as general information on revenue and expenditure is concerned, in the 2018 Budget Act we have established the revenue of the state budget at the level of PLN 355.7 billion and the expenditure of the state budget at the level of PLN 397.2 billion, which results in a deficit of the state budget at the level of PLN 41.5 billion. I would like to stress that this is close to 18 billion lower than the deficit in the 2017 budget bill, which is, ladies and gentlemen, a tangible proof and expression of the government's concern for a low government budget deficit and the sustainability of public finances. It should be borne in mind that the amount of the budget deficit, which is recorded in the Budget Act for 2018, is the maximum amount, the actual implementation of which may be at a lower level. I would also like to stress that the maximum level of deficit set out in the Budget Act has been prepared taking into account that the total deficit of the Social Insurance Fund will be covered by the state budget subsidy. As in 2017 the Budget Act for the current year does not provide for loans to the Social Insurance Fund. As regards the stabilising expenditure rule, the planned expenditure amounts to PLN 804 billion and the planned expenditure limit of PLN 597.5 billion. I would also like to stress that the state budget for the current year meets the criteria that I have already mentioned as a result of the stabilising expenditure rule and the criteria for the deficit of the financial sector according to the EU methodology. The projected deficit of the public finance sector, according to the EU methodology, is 2,7% GDP, and with regard to the threshold I said today, that is 3% GDP. At the same time, I would like to stress this by ensuring the implementation of the government's priority programmes, i.e. the programme that I mentioned, the family of 500+ and the programmes for reducing the retirement age, further modernising and increasing national defence expenditure. This is all included in the bill submitted. With regard to the revenue of the State budget of PLN 355.7 billion, these revenues consist of tax revenue of PLN 331.7 billion, including revenue: VAT tax PLN 166 billion, excise duty PLN 70 billion, PIT tax PLN 55.5 billion, CIT tax PLN 32.4 billion, and some financial institutions tax PLN 4.6 billion. We have assumed non-tax revenues at the level of 21.9 billion, or nearly PLN 30 billion. These non-tax revenues in the current year will be lower than non-tax revenues in the previous year due to the forecast absence of payment from the profit of the National Bank of Poland, as well as due to companies in which the State Treasury has a dominant share, dividend policy, more focused on investing funds and less on their payment in the form of dividends. Ladies and gentlemen, the projected increase in tax revenues I mentioned will be generated by economic growth. We see that we are dealing with a very good economic situation. At the same time, however, I would like to stress this. we assume the effects of the implemented and prepared systemic changes aimed at rebuilding the stream of tax revenue and sealing the tax system. These measures include: I would like to mention just a few more details about the extension of the scope of the unitary control file, the use of the road freight monitoring system introduced in 2017, the introduction of the so-called "on-road freight monitoring system" in the current year. split payment mechanism, start the implementation of the online electronic fiscal cash register system, as well as introduce in the rules on CIT and PIT income tax solutions to eliminate cases of application of the so-called. aggressive tax optimization. In addition, we provide that revenue increases will result from the effects of the Law of 24 November 2017 amending certain laws to prevent the use of law in the financial sector for tax fraud. The solutions contained in the Act include the identification and analysis of the risks associated with the use of the activities of banks and cooperative savings and credit banks for criminal activities in the field of tax fraud in relation to VAT. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the expenditure side, as I said, expenditure is at the level of PLN 397.2 billion and secures government spending priorities. I want to point out here that all the priorities I've mentioned... This security was made at comparable planned costs of handling the Treasury's debt. The draft law for 2018 amounts to PLN 30.7 billion, which is just PLN 0.3 billion more than in the budget plan for 2017. Within the framework of the Budget Act, we have secured the necessary measures to implement the financing of the 500+ family programme that I mentioned. Here is the amount of more than PLN 24 billion. Lowering the retirement age to 60 years for women and 65 years for men in connection with the adoption of the Act of 16 November 2016 amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. Here the cost for the state budget is estimated per balance of about PLN 9 billion. The value of pension benefits is PLN 5.4 billion with a rating rate of 102.7%. The increase in national defence expenditure is close to PLN 4 billion, resulting from the commitment to spend 2% on defence. gross domestic product. A total of PLN 1.5 billion is available for the continuation of restructuring tasks in the hard coal mining sector. For the financing of tasks in the area of housing, including the housing+ programme, there are more than PLN 2 billion. The increase in salaries of teachers employed in schools and educational establishments led by ministers and the average salaries of teachers at the various grades of professional promotions employed in schools and institutions subject to subsidies is PLN 1.2 billion. For financing tasks related to science and higher education is, in both parts, about PLN 1 billion more than the amount of last year. There is an increase in medical rescue grants: in reserve we have a secured sum of about PLN 177 million. There is also funding for free medicines, foods for special nutritional purposes and medical devices for people who have reached the age of seventy-five years. This is a total of over PLN 600 million both in the appropriate part of the budget and in the reserve. Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of multi-annual financial support programmes, investment in infrastructure, in health protection is almost 0.5 billion. I will not mention many others, I will mention only the implementation of the comprehensive support programme for families, which is more than PLN 200 million for life; I will also mention the financing of the programme of modernisation of the Police and Border Guard, the State Fire Department and the Government Protection Office in the programme for the period 2017 Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the outcome of the public finance sector, the revenue and expenditure I have presented, I will say that this year the planned deficit of the public finance sector is 49.1 billion. Taking into account the adaptation of the national methodology to the European methodology and the level of expenditure in line with the maximum limits resulting from the stabilisation of the expenditure rule, it can be said that the projected general government deficit, according to the Union methodology, will be 2,7% GDP, which is below the reference value. I would like to say a few more words about public debt, because it was also a very widely discussed topic in the Senate committees. If you'll allow me to light briefly, I'll present this presentation... Of course, if there are any questions, I'm at your disposal too. The first point I would like to point out is that according to preliminary estimates the nominal level of the Treasury's debt at the end of last year will be similar to that recorded at the end of 2016 (PLN 928.7 billion) in 2016. I would like to point out that these are preliminary estimates, which means that we will have accurate data at the end of March, at the beginning of April, but we can already see today that we are dealing with the suppression of nominal debt growth as announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki in the exposé. Moreover, according to our preliminary estimates at the end of last year, the debt-to-GDP level fell by 2 percentage points compared to 2016 and amounted to around 52% GDP versus 54.1% , as regards the Union methodology, which was planned for 2016. Ultimately, as I said, this level of debt will be reported later, which is at the end of March, but this is very positive news and I wanted to share this information with you today. In the 2018 Budget Act, we assumed that due to the net lending needs of the state budget of PLN 63.3 billion, including the government budget deficit limit of PLN 41.5 billion, and the deficit of the European budget of PLN 15.5 billion, the Treasury debt in nominal terms could increase by PLN 61 billion. So the public debt will increase by PLN 61.5 billion, and in relation to GDP it will remain at the level assumed for 2017, i.e. if we look at this relationship, it is 51.7. The forecast, which is contained in the Budget Act, clearly assumes full implementation, but, as I said, it is already known that these estimates that we are making for 2017 show that this level can be lower. Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of expenditure on the service of the Treasury's debt, I would like to remind you that in 2016 it was 32.1 billion, or 1.7 GDP, in 2017, last year, a limit of 30.4 billion, or 1.6 GDP, was planned in the amendment of 29,8 billion, while the implementation of expenditure was even below this level set in the amendment of the law in 2017, i.e. 29.6 billion PLN. As regards the limit on expenditure in the draft State budget to cover debt handling costs, this is 21.1 billion for domestic debt and 9.6 billion for foreign debt. So much for debt management. As for the changes that were made in the Sejm, i.e. those that were applied to the draft budget law, I will not refer to this here, because Mr President, Mr Bierecki has already described in detail what changes have been made both in parts and in reserves. If there are such questions, of course we serve information and answers. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Seweryński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u21	Thank you, Minister. Please remain on the stand, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you senators like to ask a question? You're the first Senator Augustine to come forward. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u22	Minister, quite a few debt indicators... You were talking about public debt, 61 billion, debt handling, 38 billion. I think it's worth knowing to fully understand what our situation is. And that's my question. What is the actual total lending needs of the State budget for this year? That's the first question. The second will be a repetition of the questions I have asked Mr Bierecki. Namely why transport expenditure is only 91% last year's expenses? They look similar to the National Election Office, as well as 91%. And why, in the case of cultural expenditure that was to grow this year, 75% is expected What happened last year? I follow the comparison of budget expenditure with Budget Laws 2017 and 2018. Those are my questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u23	Thank you, Senator. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u24	Thank you for these questions, Senator. As regards the exact net lending needs for 2018, the loan needs are PLN 61.3 billion, including the government budget deficit limit of 41.5 billion. This includes a deficit of European funds, PLN 15.5 billion. [[Is there a debt service here, too?]] Yes, of course. And as for the second question... [[It doesn't balance, I'm sorry...]] ...more detailed It's like, you know, it's like... it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you're That, sir, I would like to say yes. As far as these expenditures are concerned, both for culture and for road and rail infrastructure, these are, of course, not just expenditure contained in budgetary parts. As far as expenditure on road and rail transport is concerned, it is also expenditure from the National Road Fund. And now, if we look at the entire input board, where we have all the inputs for road, rail, air transport, here, compared to 2017, we have an increase of over 3 billion 200 million. We will see a significant increase in the National Road Fund, namely an increase from 29.3 billion to over 33 billion PLN. Therefore, I would like to stress that the expenditure contained in the budgetary parts of the Senator probably also means that the budgetary part 39 does not constitute, do not reflect, all the expenditure that will be spent on road and rail infrastructure in the state budget. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in the case of this type of expenditure, we also have important European funding. And here the balance sheet, which is the difference in the measures we have in 2018, compared to those in 2017, is positive, so that we also have a substantial increase in the use of European funds in road infrastructure. As far as spending on culture is concerned, here too... I'm sure the senator means spending on the budget. However, I would like to emphasise that the additional source of funding for cultural expenditure is the Culture Promotion Fund, with expenditures of more than PLN 250 million and newly created, i.e. last year, the National Monument Protection Fund, and here the expenditure amounts to over PLN 16 million. Plus... If we look at the entire department of 921 Culture and the protection of national heritage, we will of course also see expenditure from the budget of European funds, as well as expenditure incurred by local government units. So as far as total expenditure in the cultural department is concerned, this is PLN 2.8 billion, which is 0.14%. GDP. [[Minister, there have been expenses in these other parts in previous years.]] Do you still...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u25	The minister's finished answering? [[Yes.]] You're asking Senator Wach another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u26	Thank you very much. I will repeat the question I referred to the chairman of the committee, the rapporteur, i.e. to Senator Bierecki, on the amendment which the Committee on Science, Education and Sport actually unanimously adopted, i.e. amendments to the current expenditure of the Polish Patent Office by PLN 2 million. And the answer in this case was this: as far as the committee is concerned, the reason for rejecting the amendment was to identify the wrong source of funding, the wrong source of funding. What kind of source would that be? I think that as far as the Polish Patent Office and this amendment are concerned, here it is fully justified and no one denied it, all the more so because this office is one of the few offices ♪ if not the only one ♪ I'm gonna tell you, there's a surplus of revenue over expenses. In addition, he already wanted to increase the influential side at an earlier stage of budget proceding. However, we cannot change the influence side in our amendments. I'd say there's more here. Even though it's a question That this office is a reliable partner in the sense that it actually has, on an annual basis, a surplus over the plan. So there's no... Firstly, it has a nominally reduced budget, and secondly, its activities are, I think, as closely as possible, in line with the direction of the government and with the direction of, among other things, the direction of the government. with innovation. But the main question is: what source would it be appropriate to repeat this amendment now so that it can be accepted and that the source of funding is considered appropriate?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u27	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u28	Thank you, Senator. About... I understand that the senator is talking about yesterday's committee meeting in which this amendment was tabled. As far as I can tell. In fact, it was only today that I saw this amendment, that the financial source indicated in this amendment was the cost of handling the debt, and here really it is necessary to be very careful about securing this type of expenditure. I do not want to talk about the fact that debt handling costs are largely determined and, of course, dependent on a number of macroeconomic factors, including, for example, the exchange rate risk, but in all this, the relevant source cannot be accepted. I would also like to say, as far as the Patent Office is concerned, but not only, but also wider, i.e.. when it comes to increasing wages at all 'Cause I understand that in these current expenses it's... I mean. I guess I just... I don't know the case exactly, but I suppose it's about raising wages. So I would like to say that the level of remuneration in 2018 is adopted at the level of the previous year. Thus, at least in this respect there could be obstacles to such an amendment. And the next thing you know, when it comes to increasing revenue... Of course, the senator is absolutely right that the Patent Office is contributing to the increase in income, only that the revenue of the State Treasury is not a significant income, i.e. they constitute a general income and it is difficult to find balancing in terms of providing income and immediately spending on current expenditure for particular offices or agencies. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u29	Thank you. You're asking Senator Stanisławek another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this is a question and a request at the same time. Yesterday at the Health Committee meeting, we talked about securing the possibility of establishing a National Institute of Oncology. For procedural reasons, we do not make this amendment because it would not be justified at this stage in the procedure of the budget. However, without financial security, the National Institute of Oncology will not arise, and it was in the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki in a quite important place. And here's the question and the request: is it possible to secure in this budget, in which there are 93 billion PLN for health care, but these few million for the start of this institute, for expertise, for the creation of some concept of this National Institute of Oncology? Does the Minister see that as a possibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u32	Thank you. Mr Senator, indeed, Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about the National Institute of Oncology in the exposé and identified it as one of his priorities, important factors in the exposé. Therefore, like this institute, assumptions and so on... if this is developed at some rate... Of course, I see such a need to secure such measures during the financial year, all the more so because it is important to bear in mind that the creation or development of this type of project It's a process. Therefore, this year, following the preparation of this concept by the government, it is likely that it will be necessary to secure resources to carry out design studies, analyses, etc. And here I see this possibility, for example because of some flexibility in budget implementation, which existed not only in the previous year, but also in earlier years. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u33	The question is Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u34	Minister, are those economists who calculate that this year's budget loan needs will be PLN 181.7 billion compared to PLN 120 billion that had to be borrowed in the past year really wrong?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u35	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u36	Mr. Senator, I'd like to complete my earlier statement. Because I talked about the net lending needs, and I stressed that, I'm sorry, maybe not enough, so... [[I was talking about total.]] Excuse me. I told you about the net lending needs: 63... [[So I'm not wrong?]] [[Net.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u37	Thank you. You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, well, let me disagree with you about these transport expenditures, because this year they are almost identical to the ones that were in the budget last year. And when it comes to the expenditure of the National Road Fund, they are 2.5 million PLN smaller, not as you said, bigger. In fact, there is this difference that on the roads will be 2 million PLN less, and on the railways more and balance... [[PLN 2 billion.]] Sorry, 2 billion zlotys. And the balance sheet is zero. But my question is... You were talking about the unemployment rate, the unemployment rate at the end of the year is 6.4%. That she's gonna get smaller. As I recall, since 2007, 2008. She's always been down, all these years the unemployment rate has been falling. But this involved an increase in employment. And I have a question for you. Because I remember that recently employment, total employment in Poland was about... more than 16 million people worked. I would like to know whether this reduction in the unemployment rate results from the creation of new jobs and more people working, or among others. of the fact that last year some 400,000 people went to early retirement due to the restoration of the ages of 60 and 65. As far as we know, it's about 400,000 people, some of whom may not have worked, but it's still a major damage to the labour market. Therefore, in summary, I will ask: is the fall in unemployment related to more employment and what is global employment in Poland at the moment, how many people are working? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u39	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u40	Dear Senator, when it comes to employment, it is indeed... Of course, the unemployment rate is decreasing. However, I would like to address here two points why it is decreasing. Well, above all, the main accent is, however, that it is an increase in employment as a result of the creation of new jobs, and we see it on the basis of current data, current analyses. About what, Senator? Hey, hey, That's how I sensed the thesis. Perhaps this is an inheritance that is associated with early retirement, I can say yes. According to these data At the moment, I'm talking from memory. It is likely that 395 thousand applications have been submitted by the end of 2017 in connection with the so-called. Age law, only 313,000 pension decisions. Therefore, a significant proportion of the applicants did not benefit from their retirement. Thus, the decline in unemployment is mainly linked to the increase in jobs and increased economic activity. As far as the number of employees is concerned, the budget bill... I'll tell you... As regards average employment in thousands of jobs I'll mark it, it's thousands. This is exactly 10,000 457. This is exactly the kind of employment we set up in the 2018 Budget Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u41	Thank you. The next question you ask is Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Just one word of comment about what you asked Senator Florek. As I recall, in 2017 there were 240 000 jobs resulting per balance from the economic development balance. But here's my question. Minister, we have here a study commissioned by the Senate Office. I don't know if the minister had them... [[I don't know.]] I don't think so. That's right. Well, I'd like to ask you two things. The minister gave it to me, and the minister also talked about it at the committee meeting... If not now, I would ask you to give me that information in writing. According to the authors of the study... And the author is Professor Tomasz Budzyński from the Department of Public Finance of the Maria Curie-Skłodowska University of Lublin, who provides a forecast of debt and service costs. Now, in terms of public debt, in 2017 we reached 1 trillion 2 billion and 1 trillion 64 billion PLN in 2018. So there's kind of a big difference between what the Minister said and what the Minister said today from the stand. Would you mind if I had a comment? If that's impossible, I'd ask for a written ruling. I think this document is easily available at the firm. I'd like to ask the Minister one more thing. This is also in the study, namely in the study it is stated that the revenue of the state budget in 2018 will amount to 17.3% in relation to GDP, in the previous year it was 17.7%. Could the Minister comment on this difference, though small, but the difference in terms of reducing the percentage of our income relative to GDP?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u43	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u44	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I really don't know the Professor's work, so it's hard for me to respond in a meaningful way here, especially since you quoted the Senator. the author's name, and I would therefore have to read it. For the analysis of debt, and therefore a very interesting discussion took place at the committee meeting, I will allow myself to comment in writing so as not to discuss here, without seeing the drawing up or our data. And as far as I'm concerned... The second question was unemployment, right? [[No, no. One concerned global debt and the other concerned income-to-GDP ratio.]] Income to GDP... [[From this study of the Professor...]] If we put this together, we look at the ratio of revenue or expenditure to the domestic product, we will see that this relationship changes, depending on what the forecast is and the rate of GDP growth. Mr. Senator asked for such a hot comment... I would like to say that this dynamic of gross domestic product is high. If one of the variables is the same as in the fraction It's changing in a more dynamic way, so we have this relationship. So that I don't see any contradictions here, but I'd like to see this report. [[Well, maybe if the Minister sees him, then I'll have a comment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u45	Any more questions? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Good. You're asking Senator Dobkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u46	Thank you very much. yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy, I asked the President of the Energy Regulatory Office and, later, the President of the Higher Mining Authority, they claimed that they had too little budget as regards expenditure. If this expenditure budget is increased, it will be more efficient for these institutions and, consequently, for higher government revenues. I understand that the budget doesn't really compare it that much, doesn't balance the revenue and expenditure in a given department or institution, it just takes the revenue of everyone, I'd say, into one bag, and then the expenditure is divided into different... However, I believe that when analysing the entire budget, revenue and expenditure, you should take into account that, for example. The amounts of penalties for illegal excavation of minerals do not go to the Higher Mining Authority, but are divided like this: 60% goes to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, and 40% to the municipality's office. It is similar in the case of the Energy Regulatory Office, which... It seems that the funds of all these penalties, e.g. for illegal generation of electricity or for some, say, failures are all about actions that are illegal They go to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, and in the URE they have none of it. The activities of these institutions generate revenue to the state budget, while they do not... They, without means, can act less effectively. These measures are necessary to enable them to function well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u47	I don't know if that was a question, but it's the Minister... The next question is, once again, Senator Augustine. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u48	Minister, we know that in many large agglomerations there is a huge problem of reprivatization. Minister Jak has submitted or prepared a bill. What appropriations and where are they in the budget for its implementation? That's the first question. And the other. Minister Elżbieta Rafalska announced that pensioners will receive one-off funding of PLN 500 due to very low valorisation. Is this money budgeted?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u49	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u50	Thank you. Dear Senator, I will answer both questions together, because in one case and in the other case it is a concept or current ideas, analysis or statements. Both in the case of reprivatisation, which the senator mentioned, and in the latter case, I can only say that the 2018 budget is based on the regulations already implemented and on those adopted by the end of 2017. So we were based on the regulations already implemented and on the OSR, i.e. on the impact assessments of regulations on those laws that were examined and adopted last year. Therefore, a separate budget item, if the senator asks, I won't point out here, I mean... Forgive me, I don't know that much, in a perfect way, of the concept of this bill that the senator mentioned. It's about reprivatization. But from what I remember, one of the sources was the Reprivatization Fund; it appeared there as a source of funding. But that's the only way I'd like to deal with it. It is simply that measures are secured for all actions, for any legislation that is implemented or implemented by the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u51	Thank you. The next question you ask is Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! However, I would like to ask a question about the labour market. The absolute number of unemployed people is decreasing And that's very good. But I have a question. According to statistics, if I remember correctly, there are 5 million 700 inactive people. It is a potential reserve of staff shortages on the Polish market. Do you foresee any investment, in terms of investment in man, in order to activate a large proportion of those who could reach the labour market? Are you doing this kind of research, this kind of analysis? Do you have this on your agenda when it comes to addressing this issue? Because 5 million 700 is, however, a huge number and some of these people would certainly take up work after some activation, training, I don't know, various actions that could be taken. Is this the subject of any of your agendas? It's a broad question, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u53	Here you go, question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u54	Thank you, Senator. As for the labour market question, I don't want to go in here like I'm sorry about colloquialism. In the shoes of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Therefore, if the senator permits, we will respond in writing to such a detailed question concerning the plans for professional activation in cooperation with the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u55	Thank you. The next question... [[If you don't mind me asking, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, would you like to fill in? You're welcome. [[I'm sorry, Minister... it wasn't the subject of the budget committee, but I understand that there is absolutely no money in this budget to activate this group. Yes?]] Isn't there money for professional activation...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u56	Senator, when it comes to activating people in the labour market, of course there are measures. I don't want to talk about it in detail, but there are resources in both the Labour Fund, linked to the activation of unemployed people, with traineeships, trainings, etc... [[But it's the wrong group...]] However, as I said, I would like to answer such a question in agreement with the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u57	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Florek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u58	Thank you very much. Minister, an important complement to road construction in Poland is the National Local Road Redevelopment Programme. We know that this is 50:50, we know that local governments are very well prepared for this, because they always make a lot of applications. Unfortunately, that money is always not enough. That's why I have a question. Why, then, for this program... According to the assumptions for the current year it was supposed to be 1 billion 100 million or 1 billion 200 million, I do not remember exactly, but in the budget there are 800 million, the same as last year. Why is this amount not in line with the programme? And there's one more important thing. This is an important labour market for construction companies. If all road works begin to concentrate all in 2019 and 2020, also in connection with the construction of important investments in the country, then there will be few companies on the market. So this is indeed a good time to pay particular attention to the implementation of these smaller roads, so important for local governments. And we have to take into account that there is an important composition of local governments, which is very important in this context. Why isn't this amount the way it was planned, just smaller? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u60	Thank you. Mr Senator, with regard to this development programme of municipal and district road infrastructure for the years 2016 and 2019, I would just like to add that, according to the resolution in this programme, an amount of 1 billion 100 million was initially foreseen, so there was an increase from 800 million to 1 billion 100 million. It is also worth mentioning that in the current programme this amount is higher than the previous programme, i.e. the years 2012 and 2015 when it was PLN 2.4 billion. In this current programme there are 3.5 billion PLN. That's another line. As far as this amount is concerned, I would like to point out that this 800 million is not the only source from which local and district roads can be financed. If we looked at the budget more holistically, we would see that we also have the possibility to finance these road tasks from Reserve 45, for example. This provision concerns the Development Act and therefore allows the submission of an application under Article. 20a. For example, this year we have already spent providing funding for such a local road in Radom, providing more than PLN 93 million. I would also like to point out that when it comes to road, district and municipal infrastructure, it is also funds from the reserve in the poses. 4 are to a large extent dedicated to the realization of such road tasks, for which we are dealing with the removal of direct threats to public policy security, i.e. the effects of landslides or other natural disasters. In this connection, I would like to stress that if we look at the budget more comprehensively, in fact, next to the 800 million that the senator has said about, we will find other items in which funds can be used to finance such tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u61	The question is, Senator Probie.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u62	Minister! Mr. Marshal! I would like to ask you about a very small matter concerning incomparable amounts with those that you have operated here in discussing the entire budget. Namely, I am referring to part 48 of the landlord with fossil deposits, where amounts of subsidies were given for certain historical objects, such as salt mines in Wieliczka and Bochnia and the Coal Mine of the Stone Guido. Of course, our pearl, Wieliczka, is fully deserving of the amounts assigned to her. However, I would like to draw attention to the problem of the Coal Mine of Guido. It is also a unique object at least on the scale of Europe, but less known than the Salt Mine of Wieliczka. My question is what results in such a wide range of grants. I've been watching this for three years in a row, because I've been in the Senate for so long, and I can't really see how that can be changed. Would you be kind enough to justify that? I understand that you already have data on what caused such a wide range of grants, but I will be happy to read a written explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u63	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u64	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I've been through what I have so quickly, but there's no detailed data here on the breakdown of grants into individuals. Since the senator has expressed his will, of course, we will respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u65	Thank you. And for your question, Senator Rulewski is here. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u66	Minister, I'm sure you've listened to the deliberations, and you won't be offended if the subject comes back to you in a question. Namely, the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal must, of course, be respected, especially those which resulted, inter alia. from the intentions and requests of Members and Senators of the PiS, and in particular the one that has not been implemented by the current government for 2 years, and I will add to the objective that also by the previous one. It's about caring for people with disabilities. The budgetary problem is that civil court judgments are now being passed, which confer powers in their entirety, together with interest and public costs, to those persons, to be compensated or compensated. So we're dealing with a fire. And my question is: does the government take into account specific optimization? Is it not better to pay even what is due rather than to wait for judgment, expensive, charged with interest, and, above all, the tears of the guardians who have been waiting for their rightful rights to be fulfilled for the past two and a half years?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u67	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u68	Thank you. Mr. Senator, of course I listened to this discussion and of course I have a few words to explain whether I might be able to answer this question. As far as the senator is concerned, forgive me, but I do not know these judgments, I do not know these judgments. However, I can say that there is an inter-ministerial team to develop solutions for improving the situation of people with disabilities. This team was appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the end of August 2016. And as far as I know, the subject of this team's work is the development of a new system of disability case-law, on the basis of which the conditions for granting benefits to carers will be developed for independent and disabled persons. As far as budget security is concerned, because that is what I can respond to here, of course when the team will work out such solutions, when such costs are estimated, the state budget will implement such a commitment. This is completely understandable and absolutely right. I could be here about this kind of situation... If such a need arises this year, this amount will be estimated, then we also have reserve 16, which is earmarked for the expenditure of the commitment appropriations required by the Treasury. Therefore, I hope that those measures which will be assessed, which will be granted, in accordance with this judgment of the Court, will be fully secured in the budget. [[In this case...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u69	Senator Bierecki? [[Mr. Marshal, yes, as chairman...]] In this case, right? [[...a committee on this matter I'd like to...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u70	The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal referred to by Senator Rulewski is the judgment of 28 November 2014. [[October.]] [[October.]] Yeah, sorry, October. I'm looking and I can't see... In the statement of reasons for that judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal made it clear that the implementation of the decision requires legislative action which will lead to the restoration of equal treatment of carers of adults with disabilities. Thus, without this legislative initiative, the matter cannot be resolved, this judgment has no effect. We have no information on the verdicts that Senator Rulewski is talking about. We know about one sentence when the court turned the case over. So there are no valid judgments in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u71	Thank you, Senator. This is a valuable complement. And so... [[In corrigendum mode.]] Yes? Well, here you go, briefly...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u72	I am pleased that Senator Bierecki, such a nearly budget deputy, responds to such signals, including mine. However, please accept as credible my words, and if you think that I am not credible, then at least check the cases that are being handled with the support of the Ombudsman. He said there were ten cases that were won by these people for yesterday. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to make it clear that the Court refers the case ad Kalendas Graecas, which is to an initiative. The Court is a very precise institution and has ruled that the claims raised by the PiS Members are due at the time of taking a position. Which, of course, does not preclude the possibility of taking a legislative initiative, in which the problem that the Minister is talking about, the problem of case law, will be regulated. Currently, the courts, including the Supreme Administrative Court, certainly rule on the fairness of claims by persons who have been deprived of entitlement to benefits under this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u73	Thank you, Senator, for that correction. Let's move on to further questions. The next speaker is Senator Florek. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u74	Minister, the supervision of the resolutions of the local government is exercised, we know, by the President of the Council of Ministers and the voivodships, and in financial terms by regional chambers of account. Yesterday, at the meeting of the finance committee, the amendment to increase the current expenditure of the regional financial chambers by PLN 10 million was lost. The information we have from RIO shows that it is a very difficult situation that from January to October of this year 80 people resigned from work, that the inspector's average wage there is about PLN 2 000 200. There are also tasks that have been passed. Therefore, regional clearing houses may have great difficulties in carrying out their tasks. And the question is, why in this difficult situation... Because we heard arguments that chambers received some money every year, small, 1 million PLN, for current expenses, but this does not, of course, cover all expenses that are important for employees. They're leaving. They go to other supervisory institutions, for example. NIK and many others. Therefore, it is to be expected that if regional clearing houses are not co-financed, this exodus of employees will continue. And this may lead to the fact that chambers will not actually do their job. And these are important tasks for the local government. That is why this is a fundamental question: why is there no support here when we know that the situation is still difficult, why was this amendment rejected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u75	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u76	Thank you. Senator, this is basically the same question as the one that came up with Mr Bierecki. [[I answered it in detail.]] In fact... Well, I don't want to quote those arguments that have already been put forward at the committee's meeting, relating to the increase in the budget of the regional accounting chambers, the increase in wages in the freezing situation or the above-average increase in the situation of salary increases in the other institutions. So if you don't mind, I'm just going to agree to Senator Bierecki's argument.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u77	Thank you. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u78	Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, I have two questions. The first concerns the reduction of expenditure on the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. We here, in the Senate, often deal with combatants and repressed people, including political opposition activists, and grant them, with the approval of the government, an increasing number of I don't know what to call it "reparation," privileges, also financial ones, because of those injuries they have suffered in the past. But, of course, the distribution of these funds will be done by the office. The question is this. On the one hand, these amounts are increasing, and rightly so, but on the other hand, the office that will physically have them has a smaller budget. So it automatically has, like, less ability to act. The question is, isn't that a contradiction? And the second point, concerning Part 43 of the Religious Declarations and National and Ethnic Minorities. Here, in turn, is an increase of 15%. I have a question for the Minister: what is the result of this 15% increase, such as the care of national and ethnic minorities, since our minorities in other countries are not treated so well, sometimes they have no minority status, as is the case for example. with Poles and Polonia in the Federal Republic of Germany? Why are we trying so hard with regard to these minorities, we are increasing the budget in this area, and this is not mutual in other countries?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u79	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u80	Thank you. As far as part 43 is concerned, which is what the senator pointed out to support ethnic and religious minorities, this 15% increase is mainly due to an increase in the Church Fund. And these are the funds that will be used to renovate, renovate and maintain historical religious objects. So that here such a very short answer. If Mr. Senator and Mr. Marshal want us to respond in more detail, we can, of course, analyze this when it comes to the Church Fund or these measures, about how it has looked in recent years. [[If you don't mind, Minister, I'm not talking about the Church Fund.]] This is the Church Fund... [[I'm talking about minorities, whether there's growth, and if there is, how much is growth.]] All this growth that has been recorded, if I remember correctly, is an increase in the Church Fund. It's part 43, it's what the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration has at his disposal. As for the second question about the Veterans' Office, I don't have that kind of data right now. I wanted to find out quickly how much this budget is exactly smaller, but... therefore, if Mr. Senator and Mr. Marshal allow, we will answer this question in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u81	Thank you. You're asking Senator Rulewski another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u82	Minister, I have two questions if you'll agree and hold on... First question. As a result of the drafting of the budget and monetary policy, it is noted that, as a result of a certain around-budget law, wages have been frozen in the sphere, I would say, of the budget. If parliamentarians or the government were to be excluded from this, it would turn out that there is a debate in committees. There are clear deficiencies in this freezing. They are based on the fact that the public administration, such as the State Labour Inspection, in which personal expenditure is frozen, is unable to maintain staff stability, so it is unable, as the Chief Inspector said, to carry out public tasks. The question is: does the government foresee or why it does not provide for a flexible approach to these issues in this budget for the sake of sound management, of course? And second question. This budget for some elements is gracious, which, of course, I have noticed, but for other elements, as I said when I talked about carers, it is very strict, I would say it is even more strict. Meanwhile And that is the essence of the question, in Poland we were born the largest river, the river of beer. It is not true that Vistula is the largest river in Poland. The biggest river in Poland at the moment is the beer river. And it is connected with the ease with which companies, producers, also through a reduction in quality, gain profits and the state budget is not active in law enforcement as regards excise revenue. My question is: by fighting alcoholism, by fighting unjustified profits and not competing with the Vistula River, which is probably still the queen of the Polish rivers, is the government taking any action to gain the necessary resources for those areas that it does not like?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u83	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u84	Thank you, Senator. Maybe I'll start with a beer, not this river. As far as salaries in the budgetary sphere are concerned, they have indeed been subject to the Around Budget Act... the growth rate has been maintained at 100%. in other words, it provides for the freezing of wages in the budgetary sphere. I want to highlight two aspects here in principle. The first aspect concerns a certain flexibility that the senator has said about. Of course, this flexibility has been preserved because the freezing concerned the salary fund. But the payroll fund... We also do not identify this with keeping every single salary. So, to be perfectly clear, the payroll fund is a certain total. This does not mean that no remuneration of any person, no employee can increase in 2018. And here's some flexibility. First of all, because the state of employment... If we analyze ourselves at least I'm gonna say it in a technical language. The Rb-70 report, we will note that the size of the planned employment and the number of jobs made are not the same. That's the first line. Secondly, as a result of some natural savings which arise in the course of the implementation of the budget in each institution, these salaries How we look at the plans They are different, i.e. performance is generally higher. That's the first line. [[So what, they're gonna instigate their friends...]] [[Mr. Senator, you're getting answers.]] [[I'm sorry.]] The second point that I would like to say also shows flexibility. Namely, in the Around Budget Act for 2018, there was a mechanism for increasing remuneration if this remuneration comes from non-budgetary sources. An important part of the institutions and agencies that carry out economic activities, i.e. generate income, has the possibility of raising salaries thanks to such sources, provided that the state budget is not charged in the following years. And here. Maybe I'll say it immodestly. This is from the government, from the Minister of Finance, just a manifestation of this flexibility, right? So it's possible to raise wages. Well, I don't want to mention the third point, i.e. the salaries coming from the Operational Programme, for example, Technical assistance, which are also an important source of funding for the remuneration fund where employees actually carry out tasks related to EU projects and can receive such salaries from the Technical Assistance. With regard to wages, that's it. As far as the second question is concerned, I understand that this is a question with a trap, so I would say that of a kind that forces more to present a concept. Well, I don't think this is the time and place to present our concept when it comes to sealing related activities... or at all the wider excise duty agenda. So If the senator agrees. I'm going to put this in writing because I wouldn't want to be here in the middle of a budget debate... [[Good. I understand, ma'am.]] Because, like I said, I don't think this is the time or the place. [[I can even report in person.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u85	You're asking Senator Klein another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you a question about part 62 of the fisheries. The fishing appropriations have been reduced to 90% of the quota available in this part last year. What was the justification for such a significant reduction in appropriations for this purpose? And in what position did this decrease occur? That's one question. And the second question is precisely these measures for national and ethnic minorities. Here I was provoked by Senator Czerwiński, because I noticed that the funds for this purpose increased by 15%. , and I thought that this increase was related to what we talked about with the Minister some time ago at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. And that's what I asked you because there's been a reduction in funds for learning the Kashubian language, and probably other minority languages, in education grants. At that time, the Minister told me that these objectives would be financed and are precisely these measures for national and ethnic minorities. Of course, it was not quite so, it was briefly said by you, because there are different goals, etc., but I thought that to some extent this loss would be compensated for by this increase, so that it could be better spent on precisely those purposes, which is described by the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities and the Regional Language. But it turns out that expenditure on this purpose has not been increased, so de facto the funds allocated to learning the Kashubian language in the current year will be reduced by around 10%. or even more than last year. Do you not think that, in view of the fact that this amount provided for in the budget for national and ethnic minorities does not concern this element, it would be appropriate to increase these resources in some way to compensate for this loss and maybe even more intentionally and rationally spend the money that is earmarked for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u87	Please, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. The noise in the courtroom is making communication between the questioners and the Minister more difficult.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u88	Thank you. Dear Senator, may I begin with this second question, which I understand, to the question and answers of Senator Czerwinski. [[The record calmed me down, and the answer alarmed me.]] Let me get this straight. In terms of increasing the funding for national and ethnic minorities, this is where growth This, perhaps, was also mentioned by Senator Bierecki as a result of the approval of the parliamentary amendments in the Sejm. As part of the Members' amendments, there have been some changes. Forgive me for quoting this from memory. The amendments, which were related to the renovations, maintenance of historical buildings, church buildings, altars. This increase was due to the amendments. That's one thing. [[Good. I'm glad...]] As far as the increase in funds for learning the Kashubian language is concerned, there was no increase in the government project here. So much for such a specific, very detailed answer. Dear Senator, in terms of fisheries, there is indeed a reduction in the amount of expenditure in part 62. Why? First of all, because there has been a 10% reduction in the administrative expenditure of the office. And that's the amount I was talking about at the Sejm committee meetings... [[That's for the marine fisheries inspector, right?]] This is the administrative office of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, a 10% reduction in its expenditure. According to the planning material submitted by the authorising officer, the difference in the level of financing of property expenditure relates primarily to two tasks: the construction and development of the Ministry's IT system Here is a smaller amount; and the purchase of office equipment and technical equipment I don't want to quote amounts here because I don't know if the senator... that's 75 grand... So that this decline, which you have said, relates primarily to these administrative quotas, and this is a 10% decrease. [[So this does not apply to fisheries inspectors' programmes of action, etc.?]] Action programmes... According to the planning information, the main aim is to reduce these administrative expenditures.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u89	Thank you. You're asking the question, Senator Spokesperson.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the favourable indicators set out in the macroeconomic assumptions affect the relatively high revenue of the state budget and the lower deficit than last year, and at the same time, for example. Agriculture, Rural Development and Agricultural Markets are only expenditures of more than 90% expenditure of last year's budget. What is the cause of this? That's one general question. The second question relates to the overall amount of agricultural expenditure. Under the special provisions there are fewer amounts for agricultural and livestock insurance. Whether the co-financing of the Rural Development Programme, where these indicators are 93% respectively and 82% What's the cause of this? Is the village really in such good condition that it is not necessary to support the corresponding amounts of this department of the national economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u91	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u92	Thank you. Senator, when it comes to spending in the parts that you have said, namely agriculture, rural development and modernisation, I have one general remark. Speaking of expenditure, it should be recalled that part of the expenditure is covered by European funds. We are dealing with the Rural Development Programme here. The decline that the senator mentioned was largely related to the change in the financing structure. For example, the "S glass of milk' programme, which was financed by the State budget, will be financed by EU funds this year. There is a reduction in the budget that the senator mentioned, but at the moment I have no memory of any programme, no undertaking in terms of agriculture that would no longer be financed, either by budget or by the EU. First of all, there is a change in the financing structure. That's the first line. Second line. Mr. Senator mentioned the agricultural insurance reserve. Indeed, there is a reduction in this reserve for the current year. I would like to remind you that this small reduction is also linked to the non-use of the reserve last year. In the past year it was partially retrained and intended for another purpose. At the same time, I would like to remind you that for 2018 a completely new reserve was planned, which may be worth mentioning here. It is a 50-million-dollar reserve that will be dedicated to the implementation of the tasks of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. These are tasks arising from the country's policy on agriculture, rural development and processing. There is therefore a slight reduction in the reserve mentioned by the senator. At the same time, we have a completely new reserve and a change of funding structure with an emphasis on European funds. I would also like to say, in addition to this question, that there are more funding for statutory actions to combat infectious animal diseases. It will be over 1 billion 100 million if we sum up the budgets of the voivodships, i.e. the resources for the voivodship and district veterinary inspectors, and the expenditure included in the budget sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u93	There are no further requests and no questions asked. Minister, thank you for your speech and for your answers. [[Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senators Czarnobaj, Probier, Czerwinski and Rulewski. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that in discussions on the budget bill, senators cannot file a motion to reject the bill. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina as the first speaker in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's the beginning of 2018. The beginning of the year is always the time of debate on the budget law for a given year. We worked quite quickly on the act for 2018. The reason for this is that, in general, this budget law in many points brings us satisfaction that in some areas there is a clear improvement. That's what we're all excited about. Tax revenues are rising. Probably not as we expected, not as it was announced. The tax gap is not cleared so quickly, as the Law and Justice representatives have said with such determination and confidence before. So it turns out that all matters relating to the establishment, adoption of the budget are not as simple as those of the law and justice colleagues who have spent the last eight years. These sizes and this way of creating, budgeting is similar, similar, and in some areas the same as what we did in previous years. I think that for all those who so easily criticized what the Civic Platform governments were doing, it's instructive, and that it will cool down all the emotions that we had before and with you. But looking at this budget, we also judge it very critically in various areas, because we see that these effects that we could expect in the next year or even in the previous year... These cases are still being postponed. I talk about it on every occasion, I think it's still a key issue for us: the question of living on credit. Still loans, debt from the state budget. This is a problem from my perspective when I look at this budget, but I think that also when citizens look at it, the most serious. If we say that there is good economic growth, if we also anticipate significant growth for next year It's not unusual for the European Union, but it's still there. This fundamental question should be the question: why is such a large budget deficit still foreseen in the state budget? This is still over 40 billion PLN. You can even say more: in the days of the Platform, a few years ago this deficit was even lower. Of course, the execution is different, in our time it was so in your time that the implementation of the budget deficit is slightly lower than that planned. This is due to the good policy of the Minister of Finance, which in various ways inhibits these urges and spending urges of individual ministers. But here's the thing that doesn't convince me, is that, in a situation of a significant increase in tax revenues, in a situation of economic growth, in the case of inflation, this budget deficit is still set at such a high level. These are the amounts that will have to be returned in the future. For two years now, the rule of law and justice has been accompanied by inflation. She for the current year is established, accepted for budget design at a relatively high level, I would even say that at a very high level. The inflation from the government's point of view is probably even convenient, because it means an increase in income, an increase in taxes from the point of view that different types of prices are rising. As prices increased this year, we have seen, especially in this area of consumer prices, related to consumption. These are problems that affect many families. Today maybe our citizens, Poles somehow do not rebel on this issue because they received a large injection of cash from the state budget. But that's not what it's like to rule out price increases to compensate for social subsidies, that's the way to nowhere. In our time inflation was much lower, more, we even talked about deflation, which means that prices of different types of products were falling. At present, without a blink of an eye, you accept inflation into the budget and therefore increase the prices of consumer goods of all kinds. One more thing. Stopped, detained or frozen wage increases throughout the public sector, except for certain exceptions. Freezing these wages... We, as you may remember, have frozen our wages too, that's true, yes. This was also due to the various problems and difficulties we had. But freezing wages now, in a situation of inflation, means that those receiving public sector wages will really earn and receive less. And you have to realize that. In a situation where there was zero inflation, the freezing kept the current state, i.e. as I made 1 thousand zloty, this 1 thousand I received The thousand remained in my pocket or I spent it. Today, this 1,000 PLN will be less worth of inflation at the end of the year. It's worth remembering. At the same time, for two years... You kept accusing us of growing administration. There have been such things and such situations. But what's been going on for two years? The number of people employed in public administration is steadily increasing and at the level of the lower state administration, and in the central administration. The number of ministers, the number of vice-ministers, secretaries and Undersecretaries of State is the largest since the time immemorial. What are you doing? You fire the minister and shove him in another administration, in another or in a comparable position in another ministry or law firm. This is the way to nowhere, that's how you don't deal with matters related to the functioning of the administration. Maybe it's just unloading various political conflicts. I also want to draw attention to such a thing. The Minister and the President boasted about growth and various other things here. It is worth analyzing expenditure from the state budget on the various spheres of our lives in a little longer period. If we compared the data from 2014, i.e. taken into account 2014, 2015 and 2016, we would notice It's obvious. That a large part of our lives... that spending on these sectors is shrinking. I'm giving you the data from the official document prepared by the Senate Office. In heading 010 Agriculture and hunting is a significant decrease in expenditure from 2014 to 2018. These are huge amounts of interest... Next: Fishing and fishing, a similar drop, almost twice; Next: Transport and connectivity... a clear decrease in expenditure from 2014 to 2018. Well, there's been an increase in spending in the area of tourism, because it's good news. But it's still... We didn't spend enough money on it. This is money mainly for promoting tourism, promoting this part of the economy, in the country and abroad. A fraction of the percentage of revenue from this industry is spent on promoting tourism. But there's a clear increase, and that's what you have to be happy about. Next: Apartment Economy.... a clear drop. The programme is practically not running, abandoned, the program is stopped, the apartment is for the Young. The last tranche of the appropriations foreseen for this purpose has probably spread out within a few days. It was a program prepared by us in previous years. You stopped him, and the new project doesn't work. The service activity is, of course, a decline. And where did the growth take place, and it's like you could jump out of sight and surprise? The Offices of Supreme Authorities of the State Authority, the control and protection of the law and the judiciary of growth; the Public Administration of the State, a very, very large increase over these 4 years, compared to 2014 or 2015. The area of education and upbringing. Such a great programme prepared by Minister Zalewska, consisting in de facto destruction in the educational system, which today can be seen clearly... Here, too, there is a decline, a clear decline in the resources foreseen for these purposes, an even surprising decline. This is a decrease in expenditure on education, science, etc. almost 40% over the years. And, of course, perhaps the marginal problem I'm talking about here... [[Time's up.]] ...on various occasions, which is the question of learning minority languages... ...on various occasions, i.e. the issue of learning minority languages, that is the problem It's just as clearly visible. So, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is unfortunately a very little optimistic budget, a budget that creates rigid expenditure, social expenditure. It's probably a good thing, but that way, by paying off just the help, you can't rule the state. Someone must also think about development, investment, building roads. It's all been stopped. It is true that Prime Minister Morawiecki announces that this may start this year, but you are in charge of the third year. And the term of office lasts four years. [[Mr. Senator, time.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, take a look at this expenditure. Mr. Marshal, thank you for your attention. . and see that the budget should, however, be constructed pro-developmentally rather than consumerly. You're boasting about consumption, not development. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u95	Thank you. The next speaker is Senator Augustine. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! Before I talk about my assessment of the budget in terms of achieving social policy objectives, I would like to return to my questions. We must be aware that looking at the very level of the budget deficit is too shallow to assess the state's condition. Record, absolutely record borrowing needs of the state budget, reaching PLN 181.7 billion... Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we need to borrow. This is a real painting. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is almost PLN 60 billion more than the year before. Because we will probably close last year with 120 billion zlotys. The year before that was PLN 150 billion. Of course, some serve to roll debt, transfer it to a later period and it is so beautifully called that these are gross budgetary needs. But net, ladies and gentlemen, this is way above this deficit level, as the Minister said. This is PLN 61 billion. This is the situation of the state budget in a year that, in comparison with other years, has been one of the most successful for us in terms of development. I'm talking about it because we're often accused of waving our noses and pointing to debt when things are going so well. In a situation where this is going so well, we should significantly reduce the credit burden that has been on Polish budgets for years, but in governments they have reached absolutely record levels. When they should be the smallest, they're absolutely record-breaking. I'm going back to senior policy now. Ladies and gentlemen, 14 million Poles are waiting for news from this room that will flow from the government. These are not good news for pensioners and pensioners. Retirement and pension valorization levels are very low. It actually reaches 0.1%. more than the level of inflation foreseen for this group of people. This is shown in materials: 2,6% inflation for pensioners; 2,7% The level of valorization. It is clear here that this year, pensioners will be, in relation to workers, much poorer. Unfortunately, it is also difficult to look in the budget for the announced 500+ money for pensioners. Here I will remind you that this instrument has already been sought twice, even though the Constitutional Tribunal has questioned it a bit, and has been granted one-off allowances. And on the one hand, you claim that the situation is excellent, but on the other hand, you give up on giving those people relief even before Christmas. As regards the situation of older people in general, it is necessary to determine how low the resources for the professional activation of older people are. Ladies and gentlemen, you are freezing PLN 11 billion in the Labour Fund when it is said out loud that older people need to be activated and that the increase in money for this is minimal. They are also small, smaller than before, than in the years of our governments, money spent on social activation, especially for universities of the third century, from the funds of the social activation programme of older people. There is also an end to the digital activation programme, when it is precisely quick catching up that needs deficits in this area for older people. There is not enough money to protect consumers, including the elderly. We have asked for this, but there is no desire to increase these resources. Where people with disabilities are concerned, in vain we would also be looking for frozen funds here for so many years to raise algorithms for people with disabilities working in occupational therapy workshops and in occupational activities. There are no means. There is a low level of funding for PFRON, maintained at last year's level, where the needs in this area are evident. In general, it must be said that in terms of professional activation, we do not find any significant new ideas in the budget. I'm about to talk about why they're so needed right now. But before I get to it, I'd like to raise the issue of the 500+ programme. I will no longer stress here that in terms of demographic change he absolutely did not meet expectations, the effect is below expectations. If we wanted to calculate the expenditures on birth growth, it would appear that this is PLN 1 million per person. But I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that as a result of inflation, as a result of wage increases, 150 000 people have fallen out of the 500+ programme, and these are single mothers raising children and disabled people, those affected by the income criterion. This means that with inflation and wage increases, this programme will bring relief from year to year with fewer and fewer families. That's why I don't think this program is a testimonial... This budget shows that you are not learning from the 500+ programme that you are not reorganizing it, that it has no will to reach with its positive effect a huge crowd of people, almost 1.5 million families. If there is no valorization of thresholds, then those families that benefit from the program will be Okay, I'm gonna stress this. From year to year, the number of those who are ignored will grow. At the end of the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a completely new situation. It is true, as the Minister points out, that unemployment is falling. And this is a joyful message from a social point of view, but from an economic point of view for at least half of Poland it is a message that means problems. New tools are needed to activate long-term unemployed people who lack the skills to return to the labour market so as to at least meet the expectations of employers for the newly employed. Meanwhile, funds for the professional activation of these people, as well as for the creation of companies, nannies and carers, to support the employment of migrants who are here, so that they can stay with us longer and permanently enter the Polish labour market, are less. These measures are less and this is when, I stress, the state of the Labour Fund is extremely good. You're freezing that money to improve your economic indicators. But really, Minister, this is a false move, because it will be difficult to encourage investors and turn on another development engine when there is such a message, and already in half of Poland it is just that there are no employees on which to count. In my region, unemployment is approaching 3% and it is really very difficult to find hands to work. However, you do not offer modern tools to activate those who are still, to keep older people in the labour market, you do not give money for it. And I believe that soon, even in your term of office, this will be a very serious problem for economic development, because economic development is very strongly linked to the development of social policy. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] Of course, 150 million extra money for the various forms of support for the independents mentioned here in the question by Senator Rulewski, pleading for the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, that is less than a slice, not even a slice, when it comes to the needs of families who are faced with the problem of caring for older grandparents and parents. The state in this budget and in its policy completely disregards this problem. It is far too small a commitment to meet the needs of municipalities and meet the needs of families. And you can do that. One can do so to make the white economy another pillar of development, but on one condition. Such that adequate resources are allocated to this, that the care sector is developing, that new companies are being created. What you're proposing... [[Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator, time's up.]] I'm almost done. ...will allow only the basic needs in this area to be met within a decade provided. That they won't grow. And yet they will increase. We all know how quickly people over the age of 80 arrive, how society gets older, how lack of carers. The social policy budget under review is an absolutely passive budget and does not take into account actions that respond to the urgent needs of the labour market and those at risk of exclusion. In this regard, it is difficult to consider it satisfactory and even sufficient. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u97	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Rulewski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would start with this: it was important for Senators Kleina and Augustine to speak, but I think it would be more important for the Poles on the part of the PIS and how they would respond to these allegations or even proposals. So I will wait until the end of the debate, because perhaps there are better solutions in our country. So far, Senator Augustine has exhausted some of my message. I would just like to emphasise even more clearly that, as far as the labour market is concerned, this is not just about spending the funds collected automatically. This, however, does not relieve the owners of this fund from being able to manage it with imagination, vision, and above all effectively. Well, unfortunately, a mistake is made here, because these measures serve as a safeguard for the budget deficit, read: a smaller budget deficit, but in my opinion if this were to be analysed in depth, it would appear that these measures should not be included in the budget, because these are employers' resources. These are measures which constitute a specific unemployment fund which is intended to serve future objectives, because there is no doubt that unemployment is an immanent feature of the market economy, among others. because of its dynamics, the movement of people or other global processes. The reality that we have found is related to the fact that the labour force is moving. You are talking about falling unemployment, but you do not see that at the same time 118 thousand Poles Read more: The workers left their homeland, left in search of a better job. This is, of course, a situation resulting from freedom of movement, from the use of the fruits of the European Union by us. And the second benefit is that our country is also haunted by workers from neighbouring countries. There's a problem with defining these people because the government says they're 2 million refugees, others say they're just temporary workers, and others say they're just friends who visit us for tourist purposes. However, it is a force that needs to be developed. The accumulated funds, these perhaps 12 billion zlotys from the Labour Fund, should serve to ensure that these people integrate permanently, or at least for a longer period. Why for a longer period or for a permanent period? It is because the strategy of responsible development of Prime Minister Morawiecki assumes sustainable growth, and it is in those production departments where goods will be produced on our account, highly processed goods. If so, we cannot rely on the seasonal workforce. It must be a force that will find permanent anchor in Poland. This does not only apply to ideas, but also to qualifications. Well, the example of doctors proves that in other countries where there are quite restrictive corporate rules, e.g. in the UK, however, this problem has been resolved. There are no hungers or protests in England, and the English health care is doing very well. I therefore accept the Minister's promise that not only will there be an institution for employment of foreigners, but also structural processes on, I would say, the labour market, which responds to these globalisation and integration processes in Europe. I would now like to focus on the issue that has already been raised here, i.e. I would argue that the government does not manage the resources entrusted to it. It is undoubtedly a fact that the Constitutional Tribunal, at the request of the Members of the PiS, has ruled that these persons are entitled to benefits. Apart from doubts, it is that a wave of trials has started and that, as a result of this wave, citizens, following the rule of law and compliance with the law, make claims to the Treasury, of course through municipalities, and obtain favourable settlements in terms of the benefits granted to them, at the level of PLN 30.40 thousand. Add to that the cost of interest, add to that the costs of trial. And above all, this country's inflation, which cannot cope with this, the state's instability, the lack of confidence in this country of law, makes us all citizens. Also those who are not the claimants, we are subject to sanctions. And what do we find out? That the government is only a specific notary of these claims, does not undertake aggressive Minister, a dynamic policy isn't just about moving around in a circle of macro indicators. .. which are important. But also to check for each zloty that it is not spent beyond what is necessary. Well, beyond what's necessary... We spend interest, work courts, which are really overloaded, and the social condition of Polish families, carers, Polish carers is exhausted. For this reason, my proposal to the budget, although it should not be my proposal: it should at least be similar to what you did to the miners. At the moment, as the minister explained here, The coal miners' claims on the courts were growing, difficult and ambiguous, and the state overcame the reality by proposing a bill on compensation for coal miners for lost coal deposits. The question of analogy: couldn't we at least have those claims that are obvious, secured by a similar initiative, so that this debt doesn't rise and, of course, have a certain social peace? And then, like the Minister said, Perhaps the Minister is misleading To work in parallel, as the Court recommends, to solve this problem, because this is a problem. But let us not allow another financial and social debt to rise. I therefore propose an amendment which would at least put funds in this budget to halt the sovereign debt process towards those to whom the Court has granted claims. And I recommend this especially to the Senators of the PiS, who, I understand, are the heirs of those of their colleagues who, already two years ago, successfully carried out in this ugly Court defence of claims, defending justice, defending the equality of the subjects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u99	Thank you, Senator. Ten minutes even. [[Come on, Jan.]] [[We're getting better together, Mrs. Marshal.]] And I think we've been very good together from the beginning. [[Yes.]] Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! From the general to the detail I would like to say a few words about the budget, because the budget is such a law which speaks about the socio-economic situation, about the economic development of each country, i.e. it can be said that it speaks about the most important elements of the functioning of the family, whose name is Poland. I will start with what is a budget assumption when it comes to GDP growth. As the Minister said, we should be glad that GDP has increased by 3.8%. Only that I would like to say that GDP growth by 3.8% and 41 billion deficit These are no longer the best indicators in Europe. I would like to tell you that the 7 countries of the European Union today have a budgetary surplus, and that the volume of debt we are talking about is among the three most indebted countries in the European Union. And since today in our environment, in Europe, we have the biggest economic boom in the world, you can see that 3.8% It's not the best indicator. Why? Because if we have, as we say, chasing the old Union, for example. one of the most powerful economies, the German economy, and we are talking about the fact that Poland and Germany's gross national income per person should be approaching in some long term period of time, in this arrangement, i.e. when Germany develops at 2.5% , and we're 3.8% , we will achieve this around the year 2100. Therefore, in the context of such dynamic European and global economies, it is important, I ask you, that we develop and that our growth is at 6 Then we will become richer as a country and we will have more revenue in the budget, from 30 to 35 billion, which will be able to invest. And that's the essence of the action. And if we factor one into the elements now, then, ladies and gentlemen, which is the increase... Well, that's been said many times today. This is the main element of growth. It's consumption. That's 3.8%. , Ladies and gentlemen, if I recall, up to 2.6% results from consumption. Well, you can have fun for a couple of years, the Greeks showed it, consuming it for 10 years, not investing it, and having a pretty good time. But I also want to tell you that this year Greece has a budget surplus. So the Greeks realized that this investment is a common element in consumption, investment and export, and that these are the three elements that determine our future, determine our wealth, also decide what is very important for Poles, namely the level of wages. And there won't be a big wage increase if it's so weak, at 3 , growth of gross domestic product. Ladies and gentlemen, what makes up the question of income? I would like to say here that, of course, it is a very good element to seal the tax system. And I would like to say that, during this term, we voted in favour of all the laws that the Government of Law and Justice brought to the High House and which were about sealing the system. It's obvious. And it must be said that in this area law and justice are successful. But I also remember how Senator Bierecki... once I will use the example of the senator, our chairman. Well, when we flew to Gdansk sometimes in the previous term, the senator said: listen, the most important thing about changing the income structure, apart from sealing, which you begin. And now you, I speak to the Law and Justice, continue very well. The thing is, you have to reach into deep pockets. And Mr. Senator gave me a fantastic lecture about how a deep pocket is like this. banks. Yeah, I was thrilled. And I said, when the Law and Justice, do not give God, will one day come to power, it will realize it, that is, reach into this deep pocket and on the income side we will have an eldorado. Therefore, yesterday, in preparation for this speech, I looked at the statistics to see, Mr. Senator, how this eldorado looks like. We have reached into deep pockets, i.e. Polish banks or banks operating in Poland, and now the amount that affects the budget is over PLN 4 billion. Well, that's good, 'cause we're increasing budget possibilities. But what else results from the financial results of the banks? By October, the end of October, banks had nearly 12 billion zlotys of profit. And do you know how much commission and general fees have increased? One-and-a-half billion. Mr. Senator, who paid that $11.5 billion? So the budget goes from all of us, to those who use the services of banks, to the amount of 4.5 billion, and thus banks have 7 billion more as part of their financial result. And this is reaching into the deep pockets that I had previously understood differently, and now otherwise. Looks like it. Ladies and gentlemen, why is it so important that these 3 elements that talk about income, namely consumption... And this is where I sign up for what was raining here, too. Consumption is an important element. And if we're talking about the 500+ programme, which is a programme of the state and has been introduced by you, then let's note that he, in addition to the effect of pulling a large part of the families out of the so-called. poverty This is certainly a very positive effect, and it has also given an effect, which is increased consumption. I'm signing off on the comments you made to Senator Augustine. If economic growth is based on consumption, it ends badly. I want us to take an example from countries that do differently. If our neighbors, the Germans you don't like... The word "Germany," um, doesn't work very well for you. So I'm going to say that this western neighbor of ours, 2.5%. GDP growth, growth... [[We don't understand...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe people sitting in this room don't have that aversion, but I'm talking about public space. Thus, with regard to this increase of 2,5%, more than 2% is the increase resulting from the investment. And from the information received from the Minister and the Minister during the debate in the committee, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have this: 3.8% GDP growth of up to 2.6% If I remember correctly, it will come from consumption again, only 1.2% From investments and 0% It's going to come from export. Today I read what concerns export forecasts. Professionals who operate in this area estimate that in 2018 the result will be minus 0.6% of exports, i.e. there will be an excess of imports over exports. It shows that our products in terms of quality, apart from the price... They are becoming uncompetitive on the European market. We need to start creating highly processed products. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I do not see any increased expenditure on the innovation economy, on what concerns new technologies of different types, their support, the creation of new jobs related to new technologies. There's absolutely no breakthrough here. Therefore, I would like to say once again that the third place from the end of debt is not a boast, a reason for pride in Europe, as is the result of the growth of gross domestic product, as is a fairly weak one compared to expectations. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as investment is concerned, we have the lowest level of investment in 27 years. And we remember from the election campaign... Do any of you remember what you said in the election campaign about what the level of investment would be? I will remind you of 1 trillion PLN 600 billion. That was the level of investment you promised in the election campaign. What happens to investments? Investments in Poland fall, those public, private... Well, foreign people still hold on as such. Why? Well, as experts say, foreign investors like dictatorships and invest a lot where dictatorship is. And there's something about it. 'Cause that's when you get a lot of relief. After all, it is necessary to show that an external investor, a foreign investor, enters the market and needs to be encouraged. Well, we're not gonna encourage him with the stability of the law, because today we have the stability of the law, to put it mildly, not the best. And if we're talking about the tax system, it's also a completely scattered, illegible tax system. The atmosphere, about what concerns Poland... The social atmosphere, the political atmosphere, is completely unstable. Therefore, this investor needs to be encouraged. Therefore, it is important that we pay great attention to investment. And if you look at the investments in this budget in the long term, it will turn out that the result is not overwhelming. I am no longer talking about the conversion of investments into gross domestic product. Ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer talk about exports, but I would like to ask you something. If the budget is rising by 3.8% I mean, you could say we're getting richer... [[It's gonna get better.]] ...by almost 4%... it'll be about 80 billion, if I count exactly. I have a question: does it translate into the fact that Poles in Poland... [[Ten minutes, Mr. Senator.]] Is it going to be better? That's where I'm gonna end... [[Oh, that's a good conclusion.]] ...I will answer these questions later, in the next five minutes, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u101	Thank you. And Senator Piotr Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Consumption is currently working on GDP in Poland. That's what Senator Blackbay just said. There is a low level of investment and here there is no export and no investment decides, but mainly consumption. As far as investments are concerned, instead of 20% We've got 17%. In addition, we are growing inflation and we are no longer a leader in Europe as we have been so far. Worst of all, entrepreneurs are afraid to invest in such uncertain conditions. What are they afraid of? They're mostly afraid of chaos in the law. They are afraid of the changes that have taken place in Poland. We can ask ourselves what will happen when the good economic situation ends in Europe. We could save money when we're tall, but we don't. We don't direct money streams to health care. Senator Grodzki will be the next speaker, and I'm sure he'll be talking a lot about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll go to one of the departments. It's about transport expenditure. This is a very important issue, because it is a very large market for construction works. How does the 2018 project look like? Well, it looks similar to what happened in 2017. The amount is almost the same as the amount of 36.8 and 36.8. It's about transport expenditure. As far as the National Road Fund is concerned, I already said that there is about PLN 2.5 billion less there than in the previous year. Generally, we will spend 2 billion PLN less on the roads, but for this we will spend 2 billion more on the railroad. This is therefore roughly the same level as that of last year. Now it's a question of investment. Are they prepared, do we have design documentation, etc.? I told you today that when it comes to local roads, there's a lot of documentation. Self - government is prepared and a stream of money should be directed there. The work that is carried out on roads and railways, of course, requires the preparation of appropriate documentation. The state has been in charge for the third year, so you cannot say that there are such shortcomings and that investment cannot be carried out for this reason. Let me give you an example of investment on the railroad. It is the modernization of the route of E20 Poznan .Warsaw. These funds could be allocated to many other major investments. This modernization costs PLN 2.4 billion. According to information from various sources, we will travel from Poznań to Warsaw faster by 5 or 7 minutes. That will be the profit of the money spent. More examples could be given here, but it is important to see that EU money and funding, which is the support that we have, also in terms of infrastructure, need to be used by 2020. Time is running out, and companies that are on the Polish market have specific processing possibilities. Therefore, if robots are to concentrate in the coming years, it will be difficult to obtain good prices in tenders. I've only given one example. Ladies and gentlemen, I will move on to the amendments, because this is a very important issue with regard to the budget. I submit general amendments and regional amendments. The general amendments to the budget, which I would like to say and which I will not read, are the amendments concerning health protection, the National Redevelopment Programme for Local Roads, the measures for living for the Young people. We know what the situation is here. And for the Ombudsman. I'm gonna talk about the regional clearing house again. I want to say to you that if this is the case, maybe not this year, but next year, the House won't be able to do the tasks imposed on it, and our changes, then... I want to stress this: we're trying to make more money. There are also amendments to reduce emissions to air, medicines for people over sixty-five years of age, funding for Orliks. These are the general amendments. I would also like to say that together with the senators from Wielkopolska, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn, Senator Rotnicka, Senator Poslednik, Senator Libicki, we are making regional amendments, 41 amendments. These are different adjustments. We would like to remind you of the tasks that are important in our region and that have not found a place in the budget. For example, I would like to give you 1 or 2 investments. The first is the construction of a central integrated clinical hospital. Because PiS Members signed a letter of intent a year ago in which they declared that they would help build this central clinical hospital in Grunwald, Poznań. I will not mention by name, but ultimately they voted against. Poznan is the only academic centre in the country that does not have a modern clinical hospital. Hospitals on the street. Longer and Grunwaldzka function in narrow historic buildings. The building on the street. Longer is the property of the Church. The sick are in the halls, and the doctors consult them in the offices in the basements. Without the support of the state budget, the Medical University in Poznań will not be able to manage. He can't build a new hospital with the loans. We can, of course, change that. There's an amendment on our part. And maybe I'll give you another example. Amendment concerning the north-eastern ring road of Poznań. Because Poznań from the south has the A2 motorway. You know that the A2 motorway was built on different conditions, under which the concession holder was paying all the costs, and it is still very expensive today. Just drive from Konin to Poznań and back and it's already 2 times 40 PLN, or 80 PLN. That's how much you pay for the freeway. In relation to the purchasing power of Polish money, this is very big money. But Poznań also has part of the S11 road, for which there are also many conclusions, we are still talking about this road. This is the western part of Poznań. And from the east side is the road from the highway also towards Gniezno. We need to connect the northern part of Poznań... This is a very simple matter, you have to connect the S11, the Goldkovo node, with the S5, with the Kleszczewo node. And this investment is very much needed. The work has already been prepared. The environmental decision was supposed to be in December, probably in March. You can start this investment. This can be built in the system of design and build or build, therefore in our proposal, in our amendments here there is a small amount of money, about... I'm sorry, I'm just gonna take a look at it so I don't get it wrong. ... Only 2 million zlotys have been written down. There was a question of 5 million PLN, 4 million PLN, and finally there are 2 million PLN to start, to enter this investment. There are also proposals for e.g. Volunteer firefighters. Because now in the budget we have already written down by the minister, what investments are going into... Of course, about the consultation, what it looked like... Well, that's what I'm making here, too. So there are 41 amendments together, and 8 more, that's about 50 amendments to the budget bill. And please consider, for example, those I mentioned, very important, like the one concerning the clinical hospital in Poznań, positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Thomas Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! The budgetary debate is always difficult, but it is good that it takes place in the Senate under the conditions of substantive discussion. Fortunately, there are no more incidents like voting on laws in the Column Hall. [[Or occupation.]] As far as the health budget is concerned, I would like to remind you that growth is small in terms of the Ministry of Health's responsibility. And that bothers us, because at the same time we made laws increasing the remuneration of residents to the extent that they may not be satisfied, but nevertheless. And it is probably possible to cover this growth, only, as you can see from the reactions of these young people, unsatisfactory. As far as the NFZ department is concerned, there's a slightly larger increase. And if luckily, you have to say We do not differ in the fact that it is necessary to increase the financing of the system so that it does not undergo complete paralysis, so that we differ, let alone the realities of the system and its development directions, as regards the rate at which it reaches this level 6%. the gross domestic product, which, I will remind you, is still below the European average, but it may constitute a minimum minimum minimum to allow for operation. We propose in the amendment to reach this level within 4 years, having resigned, among others. out of such expenses this year as PLN 2 billion 600 million for the shooting range in each district or for the purchase of another plane for VIPs, even though those which are, for the time being, are still poorly flying. Details are included in the amendment. As these amendments seem extremely important to us for the functioning of the health system, we report them in this debate and from their fate, among others. We're addicting support to this bill. As far as local amendments are concerned, I will not tell you about all of them, because I am reporting them 9 together with Senator Štark, amendments concerning the theatre, roads, bypassing Szczecin road, etc. I would like to draw attention to one small amendment. It is small in amount, because it concerns only 4 million PLN, but it concerns an extremely important case for all of us, namely the funding of the archaeological foundation of the Institute of National Remembrance, which is responsible for the identification of victims of crimes of totalitarian systems. Let me remind you that the genetic and molecular lab in Szczecin in relation to the studios at other universities, inextricably speaking of my colleagues, I am not talking about myself. It's like a Mercedes to a ladder car. Because the detail is that the isolation of DNA from the bone, and most often we find only bones, is a completely different issue than the isolation of DNA from the tissues. If I hear the president of the IPN says it's enough to match 80% The material we found that we found the victim that came from one family or another, it's not good for us to be professional, because the standard should be 99.9%. And the genetic and molecular laboratory of the forensic medicine facility in Szczecin ensures such quality of identification of the victims of totalitarianism. Therefore, this modest 4 million PLN to improve its functioning in my opinion is a small amount, a small price for the fact that we may finally be able to find and properly identify our heroes of past times. That is why I am specifically asking for this minor amendment. I ask for it as well as all others, but from an emotional point of view, this small amendment seems to the Senate, and I hope it's the most important thing for all of us. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u105	Thank you, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! I've got seven amendments prepared. I would like to submit them on behalf of myself and of Senator Jarosław Duda and Senator Wiesław Kilian. These amendments concern the Dolnośląskie voivodship. I won't discuss them. I'll put them on your marshal's hands in a minute. But I'd like to point out a few things. One of these amendments concerns the extension of the University Clinical Hospital in Wrocław of the Trans-regional Centre for Adult Oncology and Paediatrics. We have reached this point that this is the last stage. This is a hospital in Wrocław, at the moment the most important facility for Lower Silesia and the only oncology center that must be established in our city, in Wrocław because there is no such facility in all of Lower Silesia. This is essential. At the same time, I would like to point out that the University Clinical Hospital, after years of stasis, has been expanded in recent years. We are really dealing with an extraordinary situation there, and very much of this Wrocław and all of Lower Silesia are happy. But without the adult oncology center, and this is the final stage, we're just gonna have a huge problem. And there's a request. Thank you for being the Minister of Health. The present authorities are asking us to pay attention to this. The next points I would like to talk about are infrastructure issues. And we also have a situation here that the Civic Platform government has gone through some stages, made some investments, made people hope. This is the case, Ladies and Gentlemen, e.g. national roads 12 and bypasses with bridge crossings in Głogów. This was entered into the National Road Construction Program for the years 2014-2023, but neither visible nor audible. There, great hopes were really raised. This is the way that... This is an investment in Głogów, which is sometimes forgotten, because it is a city on the edge of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, but it is an investment which is extremely important both for Lower Silesia, for the City of Głogów, as well as for the Wielkopolska Voivodeship and Lubuskie Voivodeship. I therefore draw attention to these investments and regret that this will not continue. And certainly such situations as the associated oncology center at the university hospital, the fact that such investments are being inhibited or that certain obligations are not continued... It is fatal for the opinion which prevails among the inhabitants of Lower Silesia. I'll also talk about the situation... There is such an amendment concerning tasks for mountain rescue and money for GOPR and TOPR. We're really excited because we have transport right now, but it's not just planes, it's got to be people, it's got to be handled by people. The paramedics are leaving right now, and we're in a tough spot right now. So that in such a developing region as Lower Silesia, when it comes to mountain tourism, there is no money for such basic things... Well, we can only say with sadness. It's really not much money, and it should be an adjustment. I also submit amendments concerning the national road No 30 and the construction of the Chmielenia, Biedrzychowice and Paspers bypasses. It is the way to Germany and somewhere in these 3 towns there are narrow throats which simply block completely through, in a relatively good way. This is also another stage of the great efforts made earlier to improve the quality of roads in Lower Silesia. Perhaps I will also interest you in the amendment concerning the allocation of funds for railway infrastructure, here I am talking about the railway line Jelenia Góra Lviv of Silesia. It may seem strange to some, because why this line, but I assure you that it is the most beautiful line in Poland and one of the most beautiful lines in Europe, runs through beautiful areas, is an extraordinary tourist attraction. But this line also prevents some exclusion when it comes to the inhabitants of Lwówka or the towns that are on the way, the communication exclusion, because there is no other way to get there. This is a railroad that worked fantastically before the war and even after the war, and today it is completely neglected. The money that could be put into this will be fantastic for the region and Lower Silesia in the influence of tourism. I also draw your attention to this. The question of the Bolesławec ring road and the construction of the bridge along the national road 94. It's also... an increase in spending would be to appreciate the enormous effort of the Lower Silesian authorities to prepare this kind of investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My speakers spoke on this year's draft budget from the point of view of the budgetary experts. I don't do polemics from this position, because I certainly don't have that kind of knowledge, so let me put it briefly: I'm performing here today to arrange such a standard senator's privacy, that is to put forward some amendments related to my senator's district. My senator district is small, therefore, in relation to all the investments that have been mentioned here, serious, in the field of health care or in other areas, my proposals are small, appropriate to the size of my district. Since I've been a parliamentarian for... well, it's gonna be 13 years now, I'm aware that the fate of all the amendments we make here is not in our hands, the opposition, but in the hands of the majority of the government. Therefore, of the 15 amendments that I am proposing here and I am about to place on your hands a marshal, I would like to draw attention to one, Amendment 1, because I hope so quietly that this amendment will somehow address the hearts and feelings of our Senate majority. This is an amendment that is formulated as follows: the reconstruction of the streets of Tielt and Brignoles. in Shamotula together with the construction at their crossroads of the monument of General Stanisław Maczek The cost of PLN 2.5 million, etc., etc. I want to say yes. Tielt is a Belgian city, a partner town of Szamotuł in Wielkopolska, the capital of my constituency. In this Tielt general Maczek is surrounded by the universal cult of inhabitants of all generations, generations, all ages. The knowledge of these people about General Maczek is that it could embarrass many Poles, although these people are Belgians. The town of Shamotula as a partner city has just decided that, as a result of this partnership with the city of Tielt, such a monument should also stand in Shamotula. I think that this is an undertaking of all means worthy of support, especially since today's government and senate majority speak so much about historical politics, about patriotic education. This is a good opportunity to confirm it. I hope so quietly that although in this one small aspect these words will actually translate into such a small, small act. Of course I'd like to. I'm hoping it'll happen. And so that more than one of the 15 amendments that I'm putting into your hands today will be taken into account by you by the senate majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u109	Thank you very much, senator. And there you go, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u110	Not yet, Mrs. Marshal, I'm not saying. I hope time isn't up yet. I'm setting up. [[Yeah, yeah. Good.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! To conclude with the previous speech, I think it is necessary to ask ourselves whether the implementation of this budget will lead to a better, safer and, above all, whether they can count on a breakthrough in terms of salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something Senator Klein has already spoken about. If the wage increase is 5% , and inflation reaches 2.3% And if we're talking about food, that's more than 5%, and in the case of the most commonly bought food, almost 20%. It can be said that... Well, if we add to this an increase in prices of water, energy and many other things, actually the situation regarding the income of Poles will not change at all. However, ladies and gentlemen, there are some elements in this budget that are growing above measure, and I would like to mention some of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the President's office's spending is increasing by 19% by 20%. Sejm, 17% The Senate and the Prime Minister's law firm 63%. This shows that the accent is placed not in the place where it should be done, i.e. not for investment, but for consumption, and consumption in the administration. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to make a few amendments at the end. The first is to increase the revenue of the state budget from tax revenue... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please.]] ...for the amount of PLN 9 billion, so that these PLN 9 billion is allocated to additional reserves: 7 billion to include shares in the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego as the amount of support for innovative investments and PLN 2 billion to reserve for divisions 730 and 803, which would be the responsibility of the Minister of Science and Higher Education, as support for innovative projects for the economy. I have already said, ladies and gentlemen, that our economy like oxygen needs innovation and increased productivity. Therefore, such projects are very important in terms of long-term development. Let me just remind you that at the end of the year we changed many elements of the budget for 2017. Some funds can be aggregated so that they are spent in 2018. The next amendment concerns the increase in income in point 2.3 of the amendment is about non-tax revenues from 13 billion 611 million 334 000 to 15 billion... That's an increase of 2 billion. I would also like to apply for an increase in the reserve in the item. 65, and it's about grants, about helping young people get housing. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you that within 4 years 110 000 families have benefited from this programme, and within 2 years the effect of building apartments within the framework of It is worth supporting those elements that have worked well in practice, and hence the proposal to increase expenditure in this area. And the proposal to set up a reserve for teacher increases is about chapters 758 and 801 and the amount of PLN 1 billion. I would like to say two words about this. Scheduled increase for teachers, please, in the form of 5% April 1st... From this, ladies and gentlemen, it's getting 3.8%. within a year. If we add 2,3% inflation to this, it can actually be said that this will be an increase of 20, 30, 40 PLN. If we are to invest, ladies and gentlemen, in intellectual development, we must remember that one of the most important aspects of this investment is human investment in the context of wages. We need to start this process and that is why I am making this amendment. At the same time, Mrs Marshal, I would like to make an amendment reducing the reserve from the item. 8 by the amount of PLN 1 billion 521 million 600 thousand and increasing the reserve in item. 70 by 1 billion 200 million for local roads. It's a program that worked. He was expected by local authorities, but also by residents, therefore it is worth to support this programme and not limit its financing to the amount of PLN 800 million for the whole of Poland. The next thing is an increase in subsidies for the National Water Farm Annex 8, the amount of PLN 300 million for flood protection in Powiśle and Żuławy in Pomorskie voivodship. I think someone who hosted this area at the end of last year, in autumn, knows how much it is necessary to continue this program in Powiśle and Żuławy. At the same time, I would like to inform you that I am making an amendment to increase, at the expense of reserve 8, the subsidy to the road fund for the 2 bypasses in road 55 and road 22, i.e. the ring road of Kwidzyn and the Malbork ring road. Finally, I apply for an increase in expenditure in part 42 of the Internal Affairs. It is about PLN 400 thousand for the subsidy for the purchase of an average car for the CSR of the State in Kwidzyn Municipality and about PLN 1 million 200 000 for the subsidy for the purchase of cars by the CSR in the Sztum, Malbork and Nowodworsk counties in the Pomeranian Voivodeship. I would like to say that this last amendment is the result of what I say happened when the budget was adopted in the Sejm. Such minor amendments were the subject of analysis and were adopted by the Sejm, hence... [[It's been five minutes.]] ...I declare, Mrs. Marshal, this amendment. I've forwarded my amendments to our office, and now I'm going to hand them over to Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u111	Good. Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u112	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to submit to the budget six amendments of a nature, I would say, regional. These are the amendments tabled by the senators from the 3 counties of Lubuskie Land: districts No. 19, 20 and 21. I submit them on behalf of Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Robert Dowhan and my own. The amendments we have already tabled are a consequence, ladies and gentlemen, of amendments to the Fire Protection Act. Remember, in April and May last year, we discussed the deprivation of voluntary firefighters' resources, which were a derivative of 10%. the sum of the proceeds from the fire insurance. Prior to the entry into force of the amendment, half of these measures, i.e. 5% of 10% She was assigned to the Chief of the State Fire Department, and the other half was assigned to the Chief of the Chief Volunteer Fire Department. All of this caused that voluntary firefighters could develop and modernize their units in an even way, and above all they could protect themselves, equip themselves with the necessary equipment to undertake important tasks that often save lives, but also property, our possessions, possessions of the inhabitants of the Republic of Poland. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of this law. 227 Members voted in favour of the law, 207 were against There has been a rather difficult situation in which a number of voluntary firefighters have been deprived of the resources that enable their mission to be carried out. I warned during the discussion with Minister Zieliński that such a situation would lead to tensions in the relations between the State Fire Department and the voluntary fire department, that this would lead to tensions between the various units of voluntary fire services, and finally to clientelism in the relations of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs... And as a result, it happened de facto. As we examine the draft budget law for 2018, we will note that investments are appearing in the budget, projects reported by parliamentarians of Law and Justice, by Members of Law and Justice, who have met with acceptance of the parliament's majority and which have been included in the draft law... And this, ladies and gentlemen, causes even greater disparities in the redistribution of money for the functioning of voluntary fire services, and in fact for the implementation of the Fire Protection Act. In this context, with the aim of building evenly, giving the opportunity to be active in saving human lives, property, property of Poles and Poles, I report amendments with Senators Komarnicki and Dowhan. These amendments include voluntary fire department units, but not only units from the area concerning parliamentarians of Law and Justice, but also units from the area where human life, property, possessions are equally important for citizens of the Polish state. I therefore make amendments concerning the area of Lubuskie voivodship. As I said before, it will be six amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making amendments to Part 42 of Internal Affairs, Section 754 of Public Security and Fire Protection, Chapter 75412 of the Volunteer Fire Department, Property Expenditure. The first amendment concerns the financing of fire protection tasks commissioned for voluntary firefighters by supporting the purchase of fire-fighting vehicles for fire-fighting units in the Zielona Góra district: CSR Sucha, CSR Mozów, CSR Nowe Kramsko. The second amendment concerns, ladies and gentlemen, similar or even identical tasks within the district of Międzyrzecki, namely: the Volunteer Fire Guard of the Trzciel, the Volunteer Fire Guard of the Pig, the Volunteer Fire Guard of the Bayside or the Volunteer Fire Guard of Bledzew. Another amendment refers to the fire protection tasks of Krosnień County, i.e. Krosno Odrzańskie, or more specifically: Volunteer Fire Watch Snake and Volunteer Fire Watch Szczawno. Another, already fourth amendment Here are similar sources of funding as for the first amendment It concerns the financing of fire protection tasks carried out by voluntary firefighters this time in the district of Gorzów Wielkopolski; this particular concern is: the Volunteer Fire Guard of Lubno, the Volunteer Fire Guard of Lubczyno and the Volunteer Fire Guard of Rain. Another, or the fifth, penultimate amendment that we have tabled, the same sources of funding as before. It also covers the financing of fire protection tasks commissioned for voluntary firefighters, but carried out in the district of Góra, namely: the Volunteer Fire Guard of Lipinka Łużyckie, the Volunteer Fire Guard of Tuplice, the Sieniawa Żarska OSP, the Bieniów OSP, the March OSP and the Trzebiel OSP. Finally, the last amendment we tabled concerns the Volunteer Fire Service in Trzebiel, the municipality of Trzebiel, the district of Żarski. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the work on the budget will lead you, especially Minister Zieliński, to proper reflection and that the Minister will reflect on how much harm has been done by the amendment of the Fire Protection Act, in which way She devastates and destroys the fire protection system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. [[There you go.]] Senator Czesław Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the beginning of all the pessimists and black people a year ago, I'd like to say how good it is that you've made such a terrible mistake. Let me remind you that the 500+ family programme was meant to cause armageddon, that Poland would become another Greece, for it would be worse in Poland than in Africa. I will say that after the introduction of the bank tax, the banks would fall. The financial system should also collapse due to the early retirement of nearly 400,000 people. This was also the reason for the collapse of state-owned companies and private companies. How did 250 000 new jobs happen and 130 000 job offers are waiting in the employment offices today? In short, the scale of the charges against the budget of last year completely politically discredits the opposition. This budget was better than optimistic. Where did we get the money? Someone counted that since the entry of Poland into the European Union, the legal transfer of funds from Poland to Western countries, i.e. foreign companies, companies, amounted to about PLN 700 billion. Recently, even German Commissioner Oettinger has said openly that Germany has become the beneficiary of all these subsidies, European subsidies, European budget, because it has returned to the West, returning to as much as 80 cents of every euro that Poland receives. Our government slightly inhibited this huge flow of money, supports Polish investments, creates economic groups so that as much money as possible stays in the country, enriches Polish citizens. When I was in the army, quite a long time ago, I had a superior who abused the words 'unfortunately', e.g. He said, "Unfortunately, they'll go on vacation... and this is where he mentioned names." And in this spirit, enjoying the 2018 budget, I will say: unfortunately, it is a budget that is good for you and very good for society. Especially good for society, because social expenditure, as has been said here, will reach PLN 75 billion, of which nearly PLN 25 billion is intended to be used for the implementation of the programme "Family 500+..." PLN 13 billion for family benefits, PLN 10 billion for the financing of pension increases, about PLN 9 billion for the financing of the reduction of the retirement age. In addition, it is financed by the scheme "Accommodation +', the program of free medicines for seniors over the age of seventy-five, as well as the aid for the agricultural insurance scheme. Is it not surprising that at the time of the government of PO-PSL, already in these last years, i.e. 2013, it was spent for social purposes about PLN 19 billion, and now it is four times more? Where'd the money come from? Well, you just had to seal the tax system, to be precise, to stop theft. I will not now recall those indicators which have already been reported here, relating to income, expenditure, economic growth, inflation, deficit, falling unemployment, increasing the tax-free amount of PIT to 8 000 PLN, etc. However, it is worth mentioning that in the 2018 budget health funds increase by PLN 6 billion, totaling PLN 93 billion. Well, that kind of increase in health care spending hasn't been in 28 years. Money will be among others. for medical equipment, shortening queues, endoproteses, cataract treatment, oncology, surgery, etc. Also strongly, as the Minister has already mentioned here, spending on the Polish Army is increasing because about PLN 4 billion. Therefore, the budget of the Ministry will be about PLN 40 billion, that is 2% GDP from this year, including at least 10 billion will be for the modernization of the Polish army. Additional funds, funds to raise wages for police officers, will be received by the police Around PLN 100 million as well as the Border Guard for additional posts due to the need to strengthen the protection of the Polish Eastern border. Let me get this straight: all these indicators are so optimistic that they're unbelievable. However, they confirm the fact that Poland's promotion to developed markets was justified. And let me remind you that in the last decade only two countries have been reclassified from developing countries to developed countries, Israel in 2008 and South Korea in 2009. Anything to say What was impossible under the rule of the Civic Platform and PSL has now become quite possible, real and felt both in the state budget and in the wallets of Poles. She did so, to put it simply, a vision of an honest and just state. Such an example: throughout the 8-year period of government, the Platform and PSL increased their VAT revenues by around 25 billion, and the current government took one year to achieve this. An honest and fair state, as I understand it, just means stopping tax evasion. And as it is calculated, in 2009 and 2015, 250 billion zlotys evaporated from the budget as a result of VAT fraud; there were 160 billion losses due to fraud and CIT fraud, unpaid excise duty. Is it so good with everything that comes with the budget? Of course not. I mean a public debt that reaches almost 1 trillion PLN. All governments have a significant share of this, but especially the previous team. We owe her almost half of that debt. Therefore, it is with hope that we should look at the activities of the current Ministry of Finance. Namely, foreign debt after the third quarter of last year decreased from EUR 320 billion to EUR 313 billion. It may not be much, but we finally started paying it off, not in debt. It has already been said that the pressure on wage increases will be a major challenge for the current budget. Well, the Poles are right to think: since the economy is so good, we want to make better money. It is true that we have borne the lowest wage of up to 2 000 100 gross. In the past years, this remuneration ranged between PLN 1 000 300 and PLN 1 000 500. I agree that wage growth rates in this budget are not satisfactory. This also applies to the increase in pension and pension benefits, and I would remind you that pensioners are a huge social group that is very much counting on the rule of law and justice. Finally, we would like to ask: what's next? So I'm gonna say, "Keep it that way." The 2018 budget will bring us equally optimistic fruit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! When I listen to the speeches of the Senators of Law and Justice, including my previous speaker, Czesław Ryszka, I feel that you have a great complex of government of the Civic Platform and two years after winning the election you must continue to be convinced that you are not so much worse than the Civic Platform. You keep pointing out the disadvantages of the Civic Platform, and you don't deal with the present times and your problems. High Senate, I am proposing 12 amendments to the draft budget, including 3 amendments which are regional in nature. Another 3 of them are national in nature and are just an example of where PiS is getting money. This money comes from the fact that the PiS does not consistently carry out certain projects, including those launched during the Civil Platform. My first amendment concerns measures for the expansion of the port of Elbląg. I propose that 200 million be spent on the expansion of this port. The High Senate, the Government of Law and Justice has decided to build a channel by measuring. Notabene is a lying media issue because it is a decision to build a channel in 2022, while the Civic Platform in 2013 decided that this channel would be built in 2020 and in the same place. The Civic Platform has also made a decision And she signed an agreement with the Warmia-Mazury government that she would allocate PLN 150 million to the expansion of the port in Elbląg. Because, ladies and gentlemen, what's the situation? We're going to build a channel by measuring which is going to carry 3.5 million tons of cargo. And where are these tons of cargo to be unloaded if the point of entry of this channel is the port in Elbląg, which today has a load capacity of 700 thousand 1 million t? What's going to happen to these over 2 million t? They're supposed to come in there and not be unloaded? It's like a highway was built without a exit. Building a channel by measuring without expanding the port in Elbląg, which will be adapted to unload those barges that will pass through this channel, without the quay where you can reload the 3.5 million t, makes no sense. We need to remove the obstacles in the form of a pontoon bridge, which is located on this water road, so that through this channel, by measure, we can transport these 3.5 million t and unload them. Otherwise, the decision to expand the channel, which will not be possible to transport these loads, will be frivolous and inconsistent. The second amendment I make concerns the implementation of a feasibility study on the comprehensive development of the international waterway E70. It's the same situation. The Law and Justice Government has signed the AGN Convention, the European Transport Routes Convention. There are three such routes in Poland. In the case of two water routes, the government has commissioned feasibility studies and is preparing for investment It's about Oder and the Vistula. And in the case of this third waterway, the MDW E70, which leads from Kaliningrad, or actually from Klaipeda through Kaliningrad, Elbląg, part of the Vistula, connection to the Odra-Vistula road, through Warta and Note, until western Europe, such a document is not executed. Then why build this whole highway, which means I'm measuring the channel if it's not possible to carry any more of these cargoes? This 3.5 million t is to go to the port of Elbląg, but the port of Elbląg will not be the destination for these cargoes. They should keep going. They should go to Warsaw, they should go to the west of Europe. That's the point of building a canal. If we don't build a further part of this waterway, the charges will stay in Elbląg and Elbląg will have a problem with what to do with them. Although they will of course not come Elbląg, because if there is no further way, no one will decide to send charges to Elbląg, after which there is no further way. The situation here is exactly the same as when the port is not being built in Elbląg. The third proposal concerns a comprehensive flood protection programme of Żuławy, and precisely the second stage of this programme. Let me remind you that the first stage, implemented by 2015, cost about PLN 0.5 billion. He embraced the whole Żuławy Zhuławy Gdansk, Żuławy Wielkie, Żuławy Elbląskie. We already collected all the investments that are needed for the comprehensive security of Żuław when we were in the first stage. According to our estimates, it all takes 1.5 billion zlotys. In the first stage the tasks for 0.5 billion were carried out, in the second stage the tasks for 1 billion PLN were to be carried out. What's the show like today? What is the value of expenses? 100 million zlotys. 100 million PLN only in Pomorskie voivodship. It's not a comprehensive program. It's pretending to protect the Żuławy from floods. Getting all of Warmia and Mazury out of this program... The Żuławy area is smaller, but the infrastructure is the same. As many devices and as many structures that serve flood safety are in the territory of the Pomeranian Voivodeship as in the Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship. So it is logical not to deal with Warmia-Mazurskie and Żuławy Elbląskie voivodship in the context of flood protection. On October 17th, the rain fell in the night. It only rained for a few hours. In Elbląg, flood losses were estimated at PLN 14 million. And let's imagine that on October 16th, the northeast winds would be blowing, so-called. Back up and spill the Elbląg River. Let us imagine that such rain would fall in the spring, when the Drużno would freeze off, and the water level would rise. Then we wouldn't be talking about a dozen million gold losses, but hundreds of millions. And it should be borne in mind that there would also be fatalities of such a natural disaster. These 3 proposals, which I make, relate to law and justice policy, to investment decisions of law and justice. I don't know if Law and Justice are consistent by failing to see. He doesn't finish the projects, but, you know, he does things and leaves them unfinished. If the PiS does not solve the problem of flood safety of Żuław, it will not solve the problem of launching water transport on the Vistula, it will not use the construction of the channel by measuring, i.e. it will not accept these amendments, if the senators do not support them, it will mean that they are acting logically not in a party but in an economic sense. I ask you to reflect kindly, also with regard to the implementation of your own programs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u117	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I am not an economist, but at a time when it comes to budgeting, it is difficult not to listen to authorities, economists who clearly claim that there is no such definition as VAT sealing. I'm not talking about sealing the pipe anymore... Well, you can seal the limits in terms of effectiveness, while VAT is simply paid. Another question And I understand that that's probably what this is all about. It's about preventing extortion. Yes? But in order to prove that there's no fraud, you'd have to at least accuse the people who commit it. So I'm asking. And I've been investigating this case for how many people have been convicted for it, and in how many cases the courts have ordered the refund of the extortioned VAT. Because the thing is, since it's been sealed, it means that VAT was previously detected, VAT extortion. So where are the cases? Because these given numbers are completely from the ceiling. That's what economists say, serious economists. I look at it as a lawyer, as a practice, and I don't hear it. We've had a new D.A.'s office for two years now. That there should be at least a million frauds, even though we have heard of billions here, and that there should be accusations that there should be any completed VAT fraud cases for such billions. I ask: where are the specific examples? Because that's what you're saying and what you're saying is completely common, which isn't right for you to learn economics, it's probably easy. And that's why society's being misled. That's my general remark. But I want to take care of first. 'Cause it's a good custom in the Senate or even in parliament. Or do you have to take care of... Well, in particular, it's an opportunity to take care of local matters. After all, it is in the budget that parliamentarians can, having constant contact with their district and not from the point of view of headquarters, take into account the real needs for which the funds should be complemented. And that's what I want to make. These are amendments that relate in particular to my city and my district. Thus, in Annex 1, Part 77 of the tax and other contributions to the State budget, in Chapter 756 of the statement of revenue from legal persons, individuals and other entities not having legal personality, and the expenditure related to their collection, increases revenue from the tax on goods and services by PLN 1 billion. In Annex No 2 a new special-purpose reserve is added to Part 83 of the Special-purpose Reserve:. Preparation of the design documentation and construction of the S-11 road on the Koszalin section Szczecinek with the amount of property expenditure 1 billion PLN. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the way of life: Katowice. Kołobrzeg, via Poznan. It is being prepared, in previous terms I fought for the bypass of Szczecin and it is already in effect. But now it's about this road between Szczecin, where there are huge traffic jams, where you go... I'm saying this is about people coming from Katowice, from Poznan, about the road where there's a big accident. And this road is especially necessary during the season. This is the way of life, and yet it is a tourist district. As I say, it's a tourist district. They say and they were... There have been such proposals before, but they have been removed, which is why I am now asking to modernise the railway station in Koszalin and allocate the amount of property expenses of 20 million PLN. That was the plan before, but unfortunately, he... And she's prepared... This is about fire safety, which I'm about to say. Construction of the new seat of the State Fire Department in Koszalin with the amount of property expenses of PLN 20 million. There's documentation. It was in the plan, and unfortunately, so to speak, it's been taken down, and the case is very serious. And briefly: a few amendments related just... Here, one of the senators has spoken quite extensively on this subject. It's about volunteer firefighters. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, these amendments I am making are not hat corrections. These are amendments for which I have all the documentation prepared, and my own contribution is prepared. There are also other proposals, proposals for additions, and there are very important investments in the form of... selected, from the districts of Okrębrzeg, Szczecinecki and Wałeckie. For the purchase of rescue and fire-fighting equipment. I propose PLN 250,000 each, although such a car costs at least PLN 1 million, but the local authorities have already secured some funds. I won't read one by one, but it's about the fire truck at the OSP in Zamcin, Born Sulinów and Lubów, Krosin, Tuczno It is the county of Wałecki. In Parsęcko and, ladies and gentlemen, in Ustroń Morski, the district of kolębrzeski. As far as I'm concerned, on what part of it, I'm going to say that from the office of the Prime Minister... Ladies and gentlemen, the law firm of the Prime Minister in the previous term had a budget of about PLN 132 million, now it has PLN 216.5 million. Well, I'll leave that to you without comment. Here is only about PLN 1.5 million or PLN 2 million in total for all the elements that are really... And this is not just the willingness of local governments themselves, because it was agreed with the voivodship board of TSOs. I believe that this money should be shifted, given that it is so significant, I would say that the crazy increase in the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u119	Thank you, Senator. [[And, of course, I'm making these amendments. I'm reporting amendments on CSR with Senator Grażyna Sztark.]] [[Very good corrections.]] Thank you. I've accepted these amendments. Please take the floor of Senator Konstanty Radziwiłł. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to congratulate you very warmly on this good budget. This is a good proposal and I will certainly give my vote to support it. I congratulate the Minister, but I also congratulate the government and all of us on the fact that the budget is accompanied by such good indicators. Various indicators, which are more and more on the side of developed, modern and well-being countries, are becoming better and better. Are these indicators delightful? Probably not. We are all aware that there is a story behind us, which is no excuse, as some opposition senators say, is not a complex, just a fact. She is. Poland wasn't founded two years ago. Various negligence, which concerns e.g. structures of Polish gross domestic product, are... This is our dream to go from consumption to investment and export, but it can't be done overnight. E.g. Therefore, it cannot be done effectively for many, many years. Unfortunately, those are the facts. These tendencies need to be reversed. There's no doubt about that. But you can't not be happy that GDP is growing, even if its structure is still not what we dreamed it would be. [[Yeah, sure.]] These negligence slowly, I'd say, we're unscrewing. That's a fact, too. One of my previous speakers said that he doubted whether the system was actually sealed and led to better tax collection. Here you have to look at the numbers, and the numbers say it happened, no matter what name we use. Tax revenue is higher There's no doubt about that. No change in the tax dimension, which is also to be noted. It's just better for them to be cheated. The plan for the next budget is also that the collection will be better, which means that those who are to pay will pay. [[Exactly. So there's no better cheatability.]] [[But if it's growing...]] If those who pay, pay... That's exactly what this is all about. It's about being fair, so there's no stealing. And whether stealing is stealing or avoiding the law is another matter. E.g. various tax adjustments are made in order to increase the possibility of collecting such measures as actually belong to Poland. I must say that I am somewhat embarrassed to hear about the long lists of amendments, such as the previous speaker said, the amendments from the hat. [[It's not...]] They're just made of a hat. [[They're not made of a hat.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I happen to know the health sector best. These few proposals, which have been put forward here, should be considered above all in the context of a process which must be preceded by a notification of the need to finance one or another. As you probably know, for 2 years there have been maps of health needs in Poland. It should be asked whether proposals to finance such or other local initiatives were compared to these maps at all. I mean, this is the kind of trial that has to happen. For a year IOWISZ has been operating, i.e. an instrument for assessing investment applications in health care. The associated procedure must precede the notification of any investment idea to be financed by public funds. The question is, have these ideas been evaluated? It seems questionable at least. There is a way to ensure that spending money from the state budget, especially the huge funds for large investments, will be preceded by an analytical process to assess the real need. This cannot be a way of achieving the ambitions of local politicians or a reason to show that something has come up: I have made this public and it can be posted on the website. Ladies and gentlemen, a little responsibility. As I hear that these are not hat amendments and that all of this is preceded by an analysis, I wonder why this is not included in plans for various types of initiatives that can be financed from the budgets of local governments, for example. from the budgets of the Marshals of the voivodship, etc., etc. It seems that at this stage, when the budget bill goes to the Senate, we should really be very careful about presenting further ideas. Plus, there's more. I just heard something like this. There were voices here so that someone could find a place to finance something. Well, it's just irresponsible and you can't do it like that. I think the Senate really deserves more weight. I think we should lean on the possibilities of this budget, which is ambitious, but also conservative in a good sense of the word, that is, he is simply responsible... Once again, I congratulate you on the preparation of such a balanced budget that will enable us to achieve our goals, our dreams, but in a way that will not compromise the balance in which Poland must be located. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u121	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Indeed, this budget is conservative, but only in the sense that it refers to the tradition of last year. This is a consumption-based budget, that is, a budget where economic growth does not go through investments in which economic growth does not involve increased exports, in which economic growth of the fumes is on increased consumption. And in that sense, it's conservative. Last year's budget... In this Chamber, we considered that budget to be illegally adopted by the Sejm, and therefore, on our part, it was not for him... we, on our part, did not consider it. That budget was also based on increased consumption. There wouldn't be anything wrong with that. It's just that it's impossible to drive in the long run. This is a short-term perspective for the development of the country, a short-term perspective for the development of individual sectors and, finally, a short-term perspective for the development of individual households. And that's the problem with this budget. It does not give a deep breath and does not create a broad horizon that is required in modern, betting on the development of economies. One example of this approach is the national defence department. As far as this department of National Defence is concerned, we have decided in this Chamber that for the coming years there will be more expenditure. I think it was a unanimous decision of the High House. We as the opposition supported it 100% because of increasing threats mainly from the east, but also from the south, as regards the area of Europe in which Poland is located. Therefore, this instability at our eastern border was the main reason why we supported the increase in national defence spending, because national defence is strengthening the security of citizens. However, as the famous Secretary General of the North Atlantic Alliance said, the point is not only to spend more but also to spend more wisely. And smart spending is, first of all, investing in the future, which means that in the defence budget, you eat less and you invest more. And in this sense you may have reservations and we have reservations about the national defence department that the increase in absolute expenditure on modernization of the Polish Army is too slow, that due to personal expenses of both current and pension benefits there is a slow increase in expenditure for modernisation purposes. Last year's practice only confirms our concerns. What happened last year? There was nothing about the two fundamental modernization programs of the Polish Army. It was supposed to be, if I remember correctly, 10 helicopters, and after changing the preferences of the previous government, there is no new helicopter. How can modern troops operate without ensuring mobility, which has been NATO standard for many, many years? This mobility is achieved, among others. by modernising the helicopter park. No helicopters were purchased in 2016 or 2017 and there is no indication that they were also purchased in 2018. The failure of the helicopter program is a confirmation of our concerns. Secondly, the government is in the corner with regard to the most important modernisation programme, namely the anti-missile defence programme. This programme, which was ready, was essentially for the final signature in 2015, and which was modified, negotiations with the American party were resumed. And as a result it turned out that yes, Poland can obtain modern Patriot batteries, but first, for an amount many times higher than it was planned by the previous government, secondly, later, because the Americans will finish their research and development on the command system only in 2022, if I remember correctly, and thirdly, for an amount of $10.5 billion. The government, at its own request, was in a dead end. The fiasco of these 2 major modernisation programmes against the background of spending money from the MON budget e.g. on the shooting range, not sports, but military shooting galleries, in every county or advance aconto future acquisitions on a gigantic scale from last year's defence spending budget is just a confirmation of this bad fiscal policy of the national defence department. All that remains is to hope that the new Minister of National Defence will take the issue of defence more seriously and take the issue of technical modernisation of the Polish army seriously, but he has little time left. Therefore, from this point of view, I would like to express my concern about the very shape of the defence budget, in which modernisation expenditure does not increase as we would like, and most of the resources, increased resources, substantial resources and rightly earmarked for defence, are simply being eaten over. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u123	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's hard to be patient, but the Senate is committed to patience. I listened to these speeches, I listened to the amendments that the senators had made. We will, of course, be working on them in committee, although, I share the opinion of Senator Radziwiłł In fact, these amendments seem to be invented solely for the purposes of the political debate. In fact, I could say that I wish the Minister that she would be blamed for the exact same things about future budgets. Well, if you're blaming us for the fact that unemployment has fallen and it's hard to find people to work, then I'll be honest with you: you can even crucify me. And I think a lot of people in my formation will be happy to take the blame. You blame us for the increase in tax collection, and you even question the increase in collection, although as you look at the studies, these opinions that are attached to the budget, you can see that we have a marked increase in tax revenue. There's a clear increase in tax revenue, right? And that's what you have in black and white. So if someone said otherwise, they'd have to show other numbers. Finally, we have here repeating like a broken record the motive that it is awfully bad that this economic growth is driven by consumption, that there is no investment and that we have no exports. Well, I looked at the hard data. I'll start with export. If we are talking about the assumptions made for this year, the increase in exports is, after all, foreseen in the budget for 6,4%. But the data published by the CSO in the first 9 months of that year, for 3 quarters of that year, indicates that the value of Polish exports in these 9 months amounted to almost EUR 150 billion. That's almost 10%. more than last year, 2016 Thus, exports are already responsible for a quarter of economic growth. The Polish economy has become an export economy. Investments that are supposed to be gone. The European Commission, in its forecasts of Poland's development, has increased its growth projections to almost 8%. 7.9%. Imagine that this is more than the government has planned in this budget. Because in the budget there is an investment increase of 7.6% and the European Commission believes that the increase in investment in Poland will be almost 8%. And how does this look on the map of Europe? What does it look like compared to other countries? Well, as far as investments are concerned, in the euro area, 3.9%. So next year Poland will have almost 2-fold more investment growth than the euro area countries. It is expected to be 3.7% for the European Union as a whole. So if someone says that there is no investment in Poland, that the development engine expires, they did not check the data. It's a deficit issue. The numbers, the numbers really sound fascinating. The number of zlotys we need to spend on the service of public debt resulting from the deficit is increasing. Yeah, but it doesn't matter that much. This is in proportion to the gross domestic product. On page 15 of the opinion attached to the budget, you have a table showing the debt of the general government sector in relation to GDP in the 2016-2021 period. And, ladies and gentlemen, this debt to GDP is about to fall. It's supposed to be 54.2% next year. , in 2019 - 54%; in 2020 - 51.8% to reduce to 48.9% in the horizon by 2021. And that's the way to look at it. on the issue of this debt, in relation to the gross domestic product, which, after all, is growing well. Well, what does it look like compared to other countries? In EU countries, public finance debt is on average 81% GDP. In the euro area countries 87.2% GDP. So we're with about 53% of us. A little over 53%, we're in a very good position. And that's what you have in this table, in your opinion. So that I was surprised by the speeches, the speeches, the crying over the growing debt. Finally, the issue of inflation. I'm already finding it. Well, in my speech, when I was asked as the rapporteur of the committee, I said that we are precisely for inflation purposes set by the National Bank of Poland, so we are not dealing with something unpredictable, with some spike in inflation. This inflation appears because there's a lot of money on the market, but 2.3% of inflation needs to be kind of touched if we want to look at it as populously as the Senators on the Platform said that this cost has come to us. With an increase in average gross wages in the enterprise sector by 7,4% For the last year, right? That's not too bad, is it, Senator? So this budget is a pro-development budget, it guarantees financial sustainability and, contrary to what you said here, it is a very well-prepared budget. With great effort we rebuild public finances. I promised to show you the table. This is a table, a graph that shows what you've done with public finances in your years of government. Between 2007 and 2008, the revenue from the main taxes on gross domestic product was 20.2%. In 2009, these revenues collapsed and dropped to 17.6%. In the end of your governments, i.e. in 2013, 2014 and 2015, only 17%. In 2016 we were rebuilding the tax base and in 2016 it was already 17.4%. Data for 2017 I will read with interest and I will be happy to report to you on the next occasion. So the tax collapse, which was during your reign, is as much as 3.2%. gross domestic product. That is how tax collection has decreased during your reigns. These are hard data. I highly recommend to you the Convergence Programme. Updated 2017, from there I took this data. Yeah, but how come there were no taxes? The laws that we have adopted over the last two years to seal the tax system in order to rebuild tax streams have been impaled. The Minister mentioned the laws we adopted. A huge job was done by the Ministry of Finance to quickly fill the public money. For years you have not noticed that the Polish border exceeded on average 650 fuel tanks, and after the statutory changes we introduced, their number dropped to 132. And there's no shortage of gas, is there? Their numbers are down to 132. You didn't notice the scale of the fraud that destroyed the tax collection. Just because you didn't notice, it's... Well, sitting in the Senate, it's hard to see, you can't see the limit, you can't see these 650 passing tanks. But the fact that you've stopped adopting those laws that we've taken in sweat over the last two years is your card. So I think, going back to the beginning of my speech, that there's nothing more you can say but criticize us for doing a great job. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u125	Thank you, Senator. High Izbo! Some people are charged with these kinds of charges. I understand you, Senator Bierecki. Others are charged with other charges. Of course, you can point that out. What I'm trying to say is that it's not like the proposals for change in the budget are mostly invented and taken from the moon. Each of us is in our own region, in our own city, more or less knows what needs are. So don't be surprised that there are proposals and amendments to the budget. It is also normal that the opposition does this more often than the coalition, which has the possibility to influence the budget even when this budget does not affect Parliament, has the opportunity to talk to the ministers of its governments, has a whole range of other tools that it can use, and that is also not wrong. So please do not say that if someone makes amendments, it is something to be criticised. We have the opportunity, and in the Seym we have the opportunity, and we in the Senate have the opportunity. I want to say that I want to make an amendment too. I thought the senator who lives in Tri-City would make sure that Senator Bierecki took care of it. Well, we all ride the ring road, which at the moment is an urban road, built up and built up. This is the possibility of moving in the city, just in Tricity, because these 3 cities are obviously conjoined organisms. It is clear to me that without the metropolitan ring road, the operation of the inhabitants of this Tricity, especially during peak hours, will become increasingly difficult. This bypass is needed, it's becoming more and more necessary. The sooner we start building this bypass, the sooner we'll get ahead of the problem that's already visible, and let's assume that in four or five years it's going to be a very serious problem. I therefore propose such an amendment concerning the transfer of certain funds. These are not huge measures. But from my point of view and the people of the Tricity, this is not an idea. And I ask Senator Bierecki, who knows the situation very well, because he also drives this ring road to support this amendment. I realize that my amendment only has a chance if the senator begs to back it up. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, you had a chance to report this to Donald Tusk.]] Thank you very much. [[Also from the Tricity...]] Now, Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! They mobilized me to perform some of the previous speeches that pessimisticly sounded here. I must say that we are living in times of extremely dynamic development of our civilization, building an information society and a knowledge-based economy. The dynamics of economic development depend on what part of the economy will include these latest technologies. More should be said about this, but we are moving slowly towards the end of this discussion, so I would just like to mention briefly Mr Morawiecki's plan for new technologies, innovation, reindustrialisation, national assets recovery, resulting in a radical decline in unemployment, wage increases, the creation of favourable conditions for the economy, for business. It's happening right in front of us. Of course, the role of science and education, both at a higher level and at primary and secondary levels, is crucial in these processes. This is extremely important. I must say that the macroeconomic indicators that have been set out in the Budget Act adopted by the Sejm are extremely upbuilding in terms of both projected GDP growth and planned budget revenue. So it's not just consumption, as some people just said. In her speech, the Minister said that the increase in debt had been stopped. These are incredibly important things. As for consumption and investment, we know that huge billions are provided for in the Operational Programme "Innovative Development," in the Operational Programme "Digital Poland," and that large measures are also reserved for innovation resulting from the effects of the 2 innovation laws: the first, the smaller, and the second, which is a large innovation law, in which the incentives for innovation in the economy are indeed significant. I would just like to say briefly that the planned GDP growth is an increase of 3.6% as it was last year, up to 3.8% but the increase in budget revenue is an increase from 325 billion to 355 billion, which is an increase of 9.3%, while spending only increases by 3.2%. So I don't know where you see only this consumption here. I would also like to say that expenditure on education alone increases by as much as PLN 1.5 billion. We know that education is very important, so we are glad that this growth is. And, of course, an increase in science at a level that hasn't been recorded in many years. 900 million zlotys, that's as much as 13.1%. As far as higher education is concerned, this is an increase of PLN 400 million. And when it comes to sports, this increase is more than a percentage, because it's up to 12.8%. , i.e. the current budget is 112.8% last year's budget. In the case of specific items, the Physical Culture Development Fund increased by as much as 19.9%. , Sports Activities Fund for Students The increase here was 34.2%. Therefore, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, on the one hand, by proposing an amendment to increase the patent office's budget by 2 million... We regret that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance did not support this amendment. However, as regards the remaining parts of the budget There were many of them, because it is also education, and science, and higher education, and Patent Office, and the Polish Academy of Sciences, and sport It was the Committee on Science, Education and Sport unanimously, because 8 people were behind, 0 against, 0 abstentions, adopted these budgetary parts. So we appreciated it very much. And I'm asking you to talk about this budget in a real way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u127	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u128	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When it comes to budget, it's always a little demagoguey, probably on each side. Of course, the government side, that is, the law and justice colleagues, are so searching for data, and they're putting it together so that it suits them as much as possible. But if we looked at this more widely, we looked at various indicators concerning individual years, remembering what the overall and global economic situation was, what the situation of the Polish economy looked like, these assessments should be much more balanced and balanced. Even in the last speech, Senator Wind spoke of extraordinary resources allocated to science, that there is an increase of PLN 400 million... [[To learn 900 million PLN...]] Higher education, right? For higher education there is 400 million PLN more. But if we looked a little further back, we would see that in 2014 it was an increase of 800 million PLN or almost 1 billion PLN, in 2015 another.... [[That wasn't the case, Senator.]] But it is, it's in the official documents... [[It wasn't like that in science.]] We're talking about higher education, right? About higher education, you gave an example of higher education here. So these increases... Of course, this money for higher education is always not enough, but in quota terms it was far more than it is now. I'm not criticizing, I'm just trying to show the truth in this matter. Senator Radziwiłł talked about the fact that taxes, fees, etc. did not increase. Well, next year's excise revenue will increase by 2.9%. So basically... The question is: if so many hundreds of oil trucks or other types of fuel were entering without excise duty, without taxes, why is it so small that the percentage increase in excise duty in relation to previous years is so small? Excise is the primary income from this source. [[Voice from the room:...growth...]] Growth, I'm saying, this increase is only 2.9%. At the same time, for this year the Sejm, the Senate and the government introduced an additional excise duty on products which had not previously been subject to excise duty. You just have to be honest about it. Disgusting that the opposition is making amends, it's so outrageous that... And what have you been doing for the last eight years on the budget? Those amendments that we've made a lot of... The chances of taking them are different, we will see what the vote will look like, but there are many times fewer of them than you have made. Yours were often made of a hat, but no one argued with it and no one denied it when someone was talking about a fire department, I know, in some tiny village. It just happens, it's done, it's done, it's done. There is another point that is worth paying attention to, and it is not just a matter of budget, but also of budget. The point is how many investments have been retained in recent years The example here is these road investments. Saying there's no money for it. The money, the money came up in some extraordinary amounts right now. But they're... That's why. These road investments aren't moving? Why are they carried out to a lesser extent than in the days of the Civic Platform? Such a classic example, which I used to give here many times, are road investments in Pomerania. Expressway No 6, Kaszubska route from Szczecin to Gdansk, the area most communicationally excluded. She wasn't built in our day, it's true, the construction has been started. And you might ask, why didn't you build it? Because we built different roads one by one. This investment was prepared 100% , including the funds guaranteed for this investment, the whole tendering procedure and everything. This investment has been completely stopped, completely stopped. What kind of waste of public money?! After all, in a moment permits will expire, environmental operations and all sorts of other things, you will have to reconstruct this path, etc., and there is another way, I do not say that unnecessary, in another place where there is no chance to carry it out in a short time. So what's being prepared... Good governance lies in this, gentlemen of the Senators, Mr. Senator, and also the Ministers, that if one government prepares something, it simply continues calmly. There's a way to criticize it. I'm not gonna argue about that. But it must be said that stopping or reversing different processes is a waste of public money. It's been said that taxes haven't been increased. Well, taxes have been increased. Tax rates, taxation, etc... In plenary, it is easy to say that thieves have been caught that various other things, etc. It is easy to say here, but at the meeting of our Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, where there is a substantive discussion... Of course, sometimes there are speeches in which someone will swim, and they will fly. It's a normal case. But there's usually a substantive discussion there, there's questions. As we ask the Minister, the directors, how it is with this tax gap and so on... [[Mr. Senator, it's been five minutes. So don't ask the Minister any more.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done. It turns out it's not that easy, it's easy to calculate and pass. The Minister says that at the earliest in March we will be able to give the first estimates of the impact of all these sealing measures and the changes resulting from economic growth, inflation, on budgetary revenues. So such demagogical talk is simply harmful. What Senator Ryszka was saying, he's just going through a human concept. Well, that was... At first, I thought I'd start by talking to him, but I finally thought it didn't make sense, 'cause that's saying... [[But it hurts.]] [[Thank you very much...]] It doesn't hurt. It just... That's not the point at all. I'm almost done, last sentence. It doesn't hurt. It just... [[On the polemics with Senator Ryszka...]] ...when someone says... [[No, no. It's been five minutes.]] ...that here we are returning the state enterprise and so on... In the Polish People's Republic all companies were state-owned. This longing, such understanding of the economy as in the Polish People's Republic, is simply the way to nowhere, Senator... [[I've given numbers, I've given numbers.]] With all due respect, we know each other and we like each other...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u129	Thank you, Senator. Thank you, because they're gonna suspect me of bias. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome. [[But how...]] Senator Ryszka wants to argue, but there's nothing to argue with. [[That's too bad for words.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u130	Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! First, there's a general issue. Yes, the budget with its deficit does not look bad against the budgets of other countries of the European Union. Yes, this deficit is within some necessary framework. But on the other hand, Mr. Senator, we must remember that public finances should be healed at a much faster pace during economic times. When it comes to reducing debts in the Europe to which you referred, unfortunately, we are not among the leaders. It's the opposite. The scale of debt reduction lies within the European Union itself. That's the first point. [[France has 100%...]] Two. It is true that we should compare debt with GDP. Agreed, only that GDP can change, and in times of crisis it can even fall, and the debt does not, the debt remains. There are some countries that are worth taking an example of, e.g. from neighbours who have had to have... [[Czech Republic.]] ...balanced budget. It's constitutionally written there. The budget must be structurally balanced. Estonia has a debt of 9.5% GDP, Bulgaria 29.5% , Czech Republic has a debt of 37.2% GDP and Romania 37.6%. There's someone to compare to. And you have to try at a faster pace, Mr. Senator, the Minister, at a faster pace and now, right now, and not at a time when the debt grew... ♪ While we were doing ♪ the government was a crisis, it was a crisis, and then the debt grew. And then, Mr. Senator, that charge couldn't be done. I'm just a corrigendum. I agree with you on some points, but I refer to other statistics where it doesn't look so pink. And we should keep that in mind. [[In all these countries there was no Rostowski.]] Of course, we should propose such amendments to the budget, let's call it regional, which have a chance to implement and which are really important. It shouldn't be, okay, some dumbass or minor corrections. I didn't do it with the senators from Wielkopolska. We have tabled a series of amendments concerning only those sections of the road S11, called by us, in Wielkopolska, the road of life, which lead from the district of Kalisz to the pilski road, throughout Wielkopolska. And this road is almost 400 kilometers away. The lack of this road is a huge negligence, it's a huge difficulty for so many companies, so many people... There's protests, blocks, there's an association that defends it. This is not a fully prepared investment, therefore it is not possible to plan the budget for the entire eleven. However, there are such episodes that buy-outs can already be started, and can already be designed, for which it has already been so-called. STEŚ, and there was an evaluation of projects, you can even invest. Unfortunately, these measures were not planned or planned in trace quantities. I would therefore like to ask the senators to consider that these amendments which have been tabled by the Greater Poles and which relate to the S11 road are justified. They are not taken from a hat, but result from an absolutely highest need, as is the case in the case of modernization of the Bydgoszcz railway line Okay, I'm gonna It's a cross. Ladies and gentlemen, Wielkopolska was so determined to repair the railway road to Piła, my city that the Sejmik Województwa Wielkopolski himself allocated the amount necessary for the modernisation of this road, without looking at the PKP or the central budget. To that extent, she was determined. But there's also a second direction, along the so-called. Tens. Ladies and gentlemen, this year on the S10 road, which leads from Warsaw to Szczecin, several people have already been killed. We're taking this on our conscience. It's the same thing for an 11-year-old. Accidents multiply very quickly. [[Senator, I'm sorry, but time...]] I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. And lastly, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of historical policy. It's a minor adjustment, but it's a heart-to-heart adjustment for us. Namely, it is a small shift of funds that are planned in connection with the great celebration of independence, which falls under the heading "Independant." We have recently adopted a beautiful resolution on the Greater Poland Uprising. We would like to see the great celebrations of this uprising The celebrations, which, as we have accepted in our resolution, are to be part of this great matter of regaining independence, were seen and financed. That's what we're asking. That's what we're asking for in this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u131	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! During the budget debates in general, the question is whether it is right or wrong. Well, I can say, in general, it's pretty good. The results of the public finances we record are actually better than they used to be. I just always remind you that in the world economy there is such a thing as economic crises and these economic crises affect the performance of individual countries. The economic crisis, which broke out in 2008, followed for a long time and Poland, although it was not in the eye of the cyclone, was affected by the crisis. Let me remind you that, at some point, GDP growth decreased to up to 0.6%. So such a simple comparison of the present situation with the situation from a few years ago simply sins with some unreliability. I advise my piss buddies to consider it after all. The link, which has been changing since around 2015, especially in the world and in the euro area, of course also affects the Polish situation and allows us to develop much better, faster. You can't hide it. Perhaps here I will argue with some colleagues from the Civic Platform that the government continued some of the actions already taken by the previous government, others were new, but actions aimed at ending... no, tax fraud simply or abuse of law in this regard have been effective. And that's what you see in the budget influences, so it should be noted. ♪ But you gotta watch ♪ also a little forward and wonder how today's decisions will affect Is it positive or negative for the future, which is eventually unknown. I will only mention one point, namely the issue of investment, because Senator Bierecki raised here that the investment for next year is planned at 7.9%. So we're starting a case... [[7.6%.]] 7.6% Even, yes. [[7.9% is the Commission...]] Oh, the Commission even us... Yes. Okay, so 7.6%. , careful. However, I would like to remind you that in 2016 the number of investments decreased by 11% compared to 2015. In 2017, after 3 quarters, still 1%. Perhaps the fourth quarter will bring some changes. So it's an increase of 7.6%. Next year, it won't even equal... We will not return to the 2015 level of investment. They're gonna be about 5% more. lower. They may not be able to catch up with this level until, probably not until 2018. Now I'll remind you a little bit of the forgotten document. I'm a little surprised he's not being judged, even by the will of most parliamentarians, the majority of the government. Namely, I am talking about the Responsible Development Strategy. In this strategy there are many indicators that were left there by the Prime Minister, then the Deputy Prime Minister, Morawiecki... They've been accepted by the government, they've been distributed over the years. By 2020, up to 2025. Well, my good advice is to account for it, to sit on it one time and see how it is implemented, which are well implemented and which are not implemented or badly implemented. Well, Prime Minister Morawiecki raised very strongly, then even as Deputy Prime Minister, such a thesis that Poland is threatened by a trap of medium development. So we're not going to dig ourselves out of the height of the row, let's say, 3.5-4%. In fact, this will not allow us to catch up with highly developed European countries. And that it needs to be changed. What are these changes supposed to mean? Well, first of all, it's about raising the investment rate, i.e. value of investment in relation to GDP. By 2025 this investment rate In the first version, I think the year 2022 was supposed to increase to 25%. GDP. Well, ladies and gentlemen, she has fallen and reached historically low levels of 18%. That height that Senator Bierecki was talking about here, 7.6% ... if we confront it with the growth of GDP, which is planned to be 3.8% , plus an increase in prices, 2,3%, then we'll see that it's about 6.1% , i.e. nominal GDP will increase by 6.1% investment is expected to increase by 7.6%. Now, ladies and gentlemen, this means that the share of investment in GDP will increase from 18.1%. About 18.3%. That's where 25% is. ? There should be an increase of 0.8/0.9 percentage points per year in order to achieve this level of investment. And it just doesn't exist. Similarly, with regard to foreign capital, Prime Minister Morawiecki cursed this foreign capital and claimed that we were colonized, that there was too much of it, etc. Well, that wasn't absolute at all. The share of foreign capital in the country is roughly at EU average level. In the UK it is half as big as e.g. It's our place, isn't it? They don't feel colonized. So that's not the point at all. But what happens now in these two years? It is happening that investments in the Polish private sector are either standing or falling, while investments in foreign capital are growing. Let me put it this way: good luck, because if they didn't grow, it would be a disaster at all, but it just completely contradicts this thesis that we're going to somehow push this foreign capital out of us, that we're not going to take it, and so on. Of course, Prime Minister Morawiecki contradicts himself, because as soon as there is a Mercedes or someone else, he immediately lifts him up to heaven, makes press conferences and shows how good it is that we are here to collect such capital. So I'd suggest you give up some myths. It's a first. And second of all, really... Because the opposition can do it, but the opposition will always be treated as such, so to speak, crying out in the wilderness, so as not to say worse. And if you take care of it, if it is Senator Bierecki and his committee who will take care of it, for example. will analyse how this programme is being implemented, how this strategy of responsible development is implemented in these aspects, even in those I have talked about here, but there are others... Well, here, Mr. Senator Bierecki, you can really contribute positively to our development, to the removal of various traps and to history What do I wish you? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u133	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Waldemar the Member State.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! My fellow Members! [[Senators.]] Excuse me, senators. I'd like to address the senator who spoke here... I'd like to refer, but I'll wait, Senator, until you... [[No, no, Mr. Senator, continue.]] But Senator Klein was busy, and I want to talk to him. [[I spoke to Senator Ryszka.]] Well, that's okay... But I want to have eye contact with you. [[Good.]] [[Look at me.]] Mr. Senator, if I heard correctly, you just said here that road investments are being abandoned in Pomerania. They were prepared, they were advanced, but as if because of our government... [[That's right.]] Either you don't know something I don't believe in, or you're just deliberately manipulating. I want to tell you that these investments have not been stopped for our governance good change. This is your leader from the Platform, Mr Leszek Grombala from the municipality of Kolbuda, protesting environmental decisions. And another gentleman from the Żukowo commune. You're the ones who blocked those investments themselves, and it came back to me... Everything stopped. Don't mislead the Poles. Thank you. [[Way to go, Waldek.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u135	Thank you, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Only as a correction, because you've already spent five minutes. [[Yes, sir.]] Yeah, well, I'm gonna have to ask you briefly. [[Was he a good uncle?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Bonkowski is basically wrong about this case I was talking about. Senator Bonkowski was talking about the metropolitan ring road of the Tri-City, which I didn't mention at all. This investment was really halted because of protests by one of the voivodships, or possibly by the inhabitants. We're talking about the metropolitan ring road... [[It's about the ring road that the marshal was talking about...]] ...and I was talking about expressway six. It begins with the Tricity ring road and extends towards the western border to Kołbaskov. This investment is carried out partly from the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, it is delivered to Koszalin and at the stage of Sianowa it was stopped, even though tenders were conducted. On the other hand, from the Tricity ring road to Lębork, tenders were announced, financial resources were guaranteed for this investment, but this case was stopped. At this moment, however, after protests of residents, voivodships, local governments, etc., all of them, the General Directorate for Road and Motorways announced a new tender on the section from the ring road of Tricity to God's Pole, which is also irrational.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u137	Thank you, Senator. You explained it wasn't about this road. [[I was talking about a whole lot of other things.]] Thank you very much. [[I would like to take the floor as a correction. As a correction, from the point of view.]] Corrections? But you still have five minutes, Senator. [[Out of the way, out of the way.]] [[No, no, from the spot.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u138	From the point of view. What I'm saying is that this bypass, this Kashubian one, is part of the S6 road, and this... [[It's not.]] ...what did you say... [[These are two different investments.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I didn't interrupt you. [[Senator, don't interrupt. Senator Bonkowski wants to correct.]] [[You two can talk later.]] And the construction of the S6 road will be to Lębork, but it was not because of us that it was stopped, but because of your omissions, negligence. And there's just a problem that the ring road, which I'm also working for, is the town of Lębork. Because she's supposed to finish before Lębork, and there's traffic in Lębork. So that this bypass will be realized. And you're talking about it as if we've given up everything. [[Not the bypass...]] That's not true. We're just gonna... We're starting to keep this up and clean up after you. [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u139	Thank you, Senator. [[Speaking of bypass, this Kashubian...]] Thank you, Senator. [[She's part of...]] You've already explained. [[...part of that bypass you said we stopped... because you generalized...]] [[Poor man doesn't even know what's going on.]] Thank you very much, Senator. You've already explained, you've cleaned up. [[Not the bypass. It's about...]] Mr. Senator, don't argue anymore, really. [[I'm not polemicizing, I just...]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Jarosław Duda, Mr Jan Rulewski, Mr Andrzej Kobiak, Mr Piotr Florek with a group of senators, Mr Tomasz Grodzki, Mrs Barbara Zdrojewska, Mr Jan Filip Libicki, Mr Ryszard Bonisławski, Mr Leszek Czarnobaj, Mr Waldemar Sługocki, Mr Jerzy Wcisła, Mr Piotr Zientarski, Mr Marek Borowski and me, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. Oh, excuse me, Senator Waldemar Slugocki and Senator Władysław Komarnicki. [[Yes, sir.]] The discussion is closed. I'm informing you... Oh, no. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Yes, if you don't mind.]] Please, Minister. Minister Czerwińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened with interest to this debate, which sounded here, about the 2018 budget law. In the meantime, I've written myself a lot of comments and references to those words that came from ladies and senators. Nevertheless, I would not like to respond to this in such a very retail, substantive manner, because many statistics have fallen here, and from the opposition senators, and from the coalition senators, the ruling party. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to extend this, but I would like to say two points. The first is the issue of statistics. As it happens, I am an academic lecturer, a professor at the University of Warsaw, and for many years I have been conducting research and teaching at the University. And I have an appeal to all your senators, to the High House, to present the data in a comparable way, so that we can present the data fairly, so that we can actually face the arguments, both on the tax gap that Senator Bierecki and Senator Radziwiłł told us about, as well as on the growth rate of gross domestic product, the distribution of individual factors of production into GDP. We could discuss a lot then. Here there were also examples of many countries. We told you, depending on... When we talked about the distribution of GDP, the names of the individual countries of the European Union fell. When we talked about debt, the names of completely different countries fell. So, ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about certain matters, I very much call for comparability. If we are talking about the distribution of GDP, let's compare ourselves to the countries to which we can compare. If we're talking about debt, let's measure it with the exact same measure. If we're talking about the VAT gap, In fact, there was a very interesting discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances. Let us also make these arguments in a very reliable manner. I also understand that the Senate debate is governed by its laws, and that is why I humbly listened to various kinds of arguments. Of course, I would like to say for my part that, as Minister of Finance, I am very obsessed with your arguments, supporting myself, and as far as the analyses we are conducting are concerned, research, we are also at your disposal, senators and senators, so as to serve explanations, information, if necessary by the State, the High House, will rise. And the other thing. I would like to say that, in the light of these statistics, which we have talked about very much here today, it must be said that the external environment, other countries or the European Commission, in terms of economic parameters, evaluates us much more graciously than we ourselves. Here, there have been many arguments about the pace of GDP growth and inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only invoke such an entirely, I would say, objective assessment, so-called. market consensus, which is what Reuters polls present, what is provided by Reuters. We see there that GDP forecasts are significantly higher than those prudential, very stable ones set up by the government. The same is true of the GG sector deficit, the data of which Senator Bierecki reported here today. Also these forecasts of the World Bank, the European Commission, are below the fiscal notification given on the basis of very cautious, very balanced forecasts presented by the government. And one last thing to finish. I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, the senators very warmly for this substantive, also a long, comprehensive debate, and to thank all the participants for the efforts put in place at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, just as Mr Senator President, who is extremely efficient, and to ask that this budget bill be welcomed by the senators. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u141	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held in the voting block. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 702, and the report of the Commission In print No 702 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, a report on the meeting held yesterday on the Law amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. This is a very urgent project, notified in the procedure, can be said to be express, because these changes concern direct payments, the development of an electronic system which all farmers will have to apply already this year, except for exceptions, because in some cases it will still be possible to do so on paper. But in general, it is one basic provision that will affect farmers to be able to fill in applications in electronic form. As the Minister claimed, all services are being prepared, are in the process of being implemented and there will be significant assistance from support institutions, advice, so that these requests can be electronically completed this year, helping farmers, although, as I said, exceptions will be allowed for which an application can still be submitted on paper. And that's why this bill is being dealt with as a matter of urgency. We've got 14 days to do this. A provision has also been introduced which makes certain provisions enter into force on 15 February. It is therefore a request that the High House adopt a law without amendments so that it can be published as soon as possible and that farmers can already implement it. I stress that one of the provisions is already in force on 15 February. If it didn't come in, probably with an earlier date... There was a request from the Minister to proceed as quickly as possible with the bill, to adopt it without amendments as soon as possible and to hand it over to the President so that farmers can follow the European Union's recommendations, which now requires electronic applications. There are still a few minor changes, but if necessary, the Minister will explain. Thank you very much, and I would like your support.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u143	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. [[There's a question. Excuse me!]] I'm sorry. Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question about one regulation that is important from the point of view of the law and from the point of view of the agency's work. Namely, the Act states that the principle of submission of applications for direct payments and area payments under the Rural Development Programme in electronic form is introduced. If the farmer is unable to submit an application in electronic form, the paper form will be allowed, with a note The Agency's staff will be required to enter this application into the system so that it is accessible electronically. Here's my question. Was there any mention of this at the committee meeting, Senator? My fear. At the same time, it is a question. It is such that the scale of applications submitted in paper form will not result in the work of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, and thus will not delay the payment of the funds that Polish farmers are waiting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u145	Thank you for that question, Senator. Here's what I'm gonna say. There was a conversation about it. The Minister explained these matters, which is why I, in my introductory speech, said that this would be an acceptable form under exceptional circumstances. Today most applications are written on paper and are processed by employees. There won't be a threat that they can't handle. That's what the Minister said. The number of such applications will be small. If you need a detailed explanation here, the Minister will explain it directly to the senator, but we have discussed it. There's no danger here. The Minister claimed that the staff were prepared and that nothing would be delayed. That's what he said at the committee meeting. In fact, he felt that everything would work better than before. That was the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u146	Senator Slugocki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u147	I was intrigued by what you said, Senator, by the committee's work. It is about uniqueness, about who will decide about it. How is this uniqueness to be understood? I assume that the law defines the criteria on the basis of which this uniqueness will be determined. I understand that this will be extremely transparent, i.e. that the farmer Kowalski will be treated positively and will be able to submit an application in a paper version, and the farmer Nowak will not be able to do so. I hope it's so-called. exceptionality criteria You have used such a term, Senator, for all those who will submit these applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u148	Thank you. I think I've already preconfirmed it. If you want a very detailed confirmation, the Minister is prepared to explain it to you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: I will answer.]] I don't want to say it again. I'd rather the Minister explain it to the senator, which is why I'm sending you back with this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u149	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Senators can now report... Sorry, it's already been done. Thank you, sir. [[Thank you.]] There are no more questions for you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does Minister Ryszard Zarudzki wish to speak on this bill? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today we are pursuing a law on amending the Payment Act under direct support schemes and certain other laws. As already presented yesterday, at the Senate Committee meeting, and today, here by your rapporteur, the act concerns three fundamental issues. The first is to apply for direct payments in electronic form. The second key issue is a statement within the scope of this proposal, so that the whole application is not needed, only that, if nothing changes in the previous year's payment application, a statement is sufficient. And the third very important issue: competitiveness. We're simplifying this so that in the context of the accepted... This is not only about direct payments but also about actions under the rural development programme. It is about competitiveness in the context of the proposals, in the context of a factual and financial statement. If the tasks of the in-kind-financial statement are in the amount of 20,000 or more, then we run the competitive mode. This is too low. To simplify this procedure, we are raising this amount to EUR 30,000. And now if the task is over 127,000, we're going to put in a competitive mode. If below No, no, no, no, It'll simplify the process, speed it up, make it easier... So that this administrative pier... will relieve the farmers. This is the first of those fundamental issues that were discussed at the Senate committee meeting. And also reference to the relevant amendments... As for the questions that were, the introduction of paper form, there will be no problem here. What do we care about now, Senator? We are all responsible for this because we want farmers to benefit from these measures. In line with the guidelines of the European Commission First of all, second of all, according to the progress of civilization... Well, let me be honest: if some things were done in 2014, in 2015, in 2016... Although we came in November, it was no longer possible in the 2016 campaign. And this time we used maximum. Yeah, 100%. applications in Europe in electronic form, 75% ...We have 1%. We have to do something. And I'm asking everyone to mobilize: 100% electronic applications. If it happens... And that's the first message. Of course, we are open, of course we are fully friendly, that's what administration is for. And in the steering wheel in the county offices, they'll be required to introduce, show farmers... or refer them to a counseling center. I'm coming back from the agency where we're working on putting it all together, making it better. There will be information centres in the centres, information centres, technical centres in the county offices, but most of all I'm an advisor. And it won't be a problem to get into the system, it's just gonna go to the counselor. Or, if anyone has to submit, in exceptional cases: death, accident, random event, fire... But it's gonna be qualified by the office manager every time. Why don't we reserve it? Because there are many ideas, but we want all farmers to apply as a result. And the point is that writing everything down doesn't technically mean that some farmer doesn't fold it later. And I think it's all in accordance with certain rules and regulations. That's why we made those rules. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u151	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Minister, this answer absolutely convinces me. I am talking about those issues relating to the possibility of submitting paper applications. I would like to congratulate this innovation by allowing such statements to be made. I'm rational. My statements are never devoid of logic and meaning, Minister, so don't be surprised. You don't seem to be around much, but that's such a digressive remark. But I have one more question, quite important, and I'm considering it, of course. It is worth considering whether it is possible, for example, for technical assistance under the Rural Development Programme to provide training for farmers not only through the ODR, but also in some way... You can think about it. Maybe we'll do it as part of these projects. I don't know if that's possible. This will be difficult in this perspective, by the end of 2020 or 2023, difficult in terms of programming, implementation, but the idea is to oblige farmers to buy computers and combine this with the activities of agricultural improvement centres. It would be good to simply equip farmers with the necessary knowledge, so that every farmer who submitted it in paper version will start a new perspective by doing so in a fully electronic manner. I don't know, it's my idea. I think she's worth considering and thinking about in the department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u153	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. I don't think I'm a rare guest in the Senate. Perhaps when I'm here, the senator is not always present. [[Maybe.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I've been here so I think this communication is very good. Thank you for the vote. As far as the electronic version is concerned, here's what I'm gonna say: holy truth. We have a revolution to do. We are trying to implement this digitalisation, computerisation, and it is an absolute challenge for the new period of our activity to be applied by farmers in electronic form. There's nothing to discuss. We're already putting it where it's possible. There are some systems in... well, we're trying to run some information systems here. We have a lot of work to do, all the more so that... Here's what I'm going to say: this digitization is associated with delays that we can't make up for in two years. But I totally agree. Looking at the European Commission's communication, on the new rules after 2021, I think that this e-application should be the first, so to speak, a positive shock in this context. We'll show that we're going this way and that there's no turning back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u154	Thank you very much. Senator Slugocki. [[I would just like to thank the Minister kindly for a very good and substantive exchange of views. Thank you.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Zarudzki: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I'm informing you... There were no conclusions? [[No.]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the third item on the agenda: the Act on electromobility and alternative fuels. The text of the Act is contained in print No 706, and the report of the committee In print No 706 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u155	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission yesterday dealt with the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels. At the committee meeting, you were present with the Deputy Minister of Energy, who answered the questions raised by the senators, as well as the invited guests. This is a difficult law which requires us to introduce Poland into an area in which Western Europe already operates. This is an obligation arising from commitments to the European Union. The Legislative Bureau has tabled 19 proposals for amendments, which the legislator has presented for over an hour. These proposed amendments were not understood by the Minister, the Minister did not support any of them. Then the next senators in the Chamber asked questions, and because they had some observations, they also submitted amendments to the bill. But neither of these amendments found any understanding or support from a government representative. The experts then spoke, and they came to the meeting very many times. They were both representatives of associations representing the automotive industry and groups of representatives, e.g. Polish employers. There were also two people representing the smog alarm movement. You also represented the interests of the developing electric car market. Having clarified the doubts raised by both senators and experts by your Deputy Minister, the President proposed to adopt a law without amendment. And the committee, by a majority, recommends that you adopt the law without amendment. As far as the report on what happened directly at the committee meeting is concerned, so much for me. If... if you'll excuse me, maybe I can tell you a few more important things. Besides, the Minister is here, so he'll probably talk about it too. Well, the law is undoubtedly difficult, because this type of law was not yet in Polish legislation and this type of issue it hasn't been in Poland yet. Many of the topics discussed in the Act are technical issues and it would seem that they are unambiguous for this reason, but they are not yet confirmed in reality. For example: one of the senators pointed out that the bill describes ways of charging vehicles of the future 'Cause these are some vehicles of the future. That haven't found the equivalent yet in reality. And that's the way it is. The Minister pointed out that we wanted to point out a direction of development through the provisions of this law. Another senator paid attention to naming, e.g. the fact that in the act we use the slogan "zero-emission bus," which in Polish conditions cannot be confirmed in reality, because even if such a bus would be powered by electricity, after all, under Polish conditions electricity is produced in an excellent advantage from coal, in a manner that is as emissionable as possible. The Minister has confirmed that it is indeed such a bus, without an emission by name, even if it does not emit anything into the air itself... In fact, 80% or 80 percent. Several percent of emissions take place somewhere in the country Just so you know, the exhaust pipe is somewhere else. The authors of the bill promote the development of purely electric cars and those which are powered in a way considered emission-free. And in these ways, there's hydrogen power, and I don't think there's any doubt about that, because of the so-called combustion. It's inverted electrolysis. Water and electricity are being generated, but unfortunately they are also included here... I say 'unfortunately' because I am an energy man. Well, gas is also included here. However, an attempt to breathe what comes out of the pipe of such a carbon-free gas-powered bus will end in disaster. But here it's thought to be an emission-free vehicle because it doesn't emit particulates. Carbon dioxide emits exactly the same amount or almost the same amount as if we were burning classic fuels, i.e. oil, gasoline. The authors of the law also provide some reliefs for vehicles of the future, i.e. decided to completely exempt electric vehicles from excise duty And this is one of the 3 taxes that accompanies the purchase of e.g. in Poland a vehicle from abroad. So, if you bring a car from abroad, from outside the European Union, next to VAT, we also pay a customs duty in addition to excise duty. But the senators also pointed out that the choice was made unambiguously, i.e. Electric vehicles are electric vehicles and dot. However, one type of hybrid vehicle was also included in the group of vehicles to which excise duty exemption would apply, namely vehicles with technology enabling it to be one of the existing types of technology. the connection of the vehicle during a stop to the charging station. In other words, this is about connecting traction battery cells to charge. This is a technology called the English plug-in. That's the English name, and I'm sorry to serve it, but the Polish counterpart hasn't made it yet. And what will all this result in? The senators have shown quite a lot of preparation in terms of reviewing the market for electric vehicles, real for today. In fact, these types of vehicles, plug-in vehicles, there are few in our market. In practice, these are cross-technologies. Senators were concerned that these technologies were not necessarily emission-free. You can e.g. buy a hybrid plug-in vehicle and this vehicle may never pass a kilometer on electricity. In other words, electricity is only a certain addition that you can use, but you don't need to. However, this will result in a full deduction of excise duty. I'll give you an example. There's a car available today like Porsche Panamera S E-Hybrid Executive. In the price list this car is valued at PLN 968 thousand 780. The legislator proposes to relieve this car of excise duty, then owners would pay less by PLN 174 thousand 380, which is already very, very noticeable for them. However, the lack of exemption from excise duty on all vehicles makes people who want to buy so-called. classic hybrid, of course, I'm talking here in a nutshell. The people who want to buy these most common hybrids, advertised today on television, whose sales are at the level of several thousand units per year, will not get excise exemption. This exemption is reserved only for vehicles which, let's agree, for ordinary, average Poles are expensive and not available. I checked, the expense on the cheapest vehicle of this type, the plug-in type, is in order... the cost of such a vehicle exceeds 100 thousand PLN. If these costs were to be borne I'm talking about it because during the committee meeting we talked about it. To the basic version of such a vehicle, it is... In the catalogues of manufacturers, these plug-in vehicles are at least twice as expensive as their cheapest counterparts, the same types, only with combustion engines. This was quite a long one, because a few hours ago yesterday's discussion. I think I have exhausted the report at this stage. If any of you have any questions, I would like to invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u156	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I do.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u157	Thank you very much. I don't know if this question will be addressed to you, if you might want to ask the Minister, but here's the deal. This politically important law is certainly very important, because it sets out the purpose for which we are to aim, and which will be achieved after about 30 years, by 2050. It is a law that actually informs the public about what our future is to be like. However, by 2020 nothing will actually change, because only then will there be some administrative... administrative order to have a certain number of electric cars, at least in the case of state administration and central administration, because it is actually out of the reach of most of our country's citizens. It's the right thing to say to yourself. That's it. - As you said, sir. Technical law. I will still ask the Minister about a few things, but I would like to ask you if there was also a broader discussion about a certain basis for all of this. What will this apply to citizens e.g. in large agglomerations? Because at this point one of the provisions of this law causes concern among the inhabitants, namely the so-called. clean traffic zone I think that's what it's called. Where, of course established by the municipality council, a ban on entry into this zone for cars other than those which do not emit anything. Whether it's best or wider... What's my point? To the fact that actually and electricity is the result of anything other than getting energy to a large extent, at least in our country, from coal, and the conversion of coal, etc., derivatives... Well, we'll have to sing the rest. Was there any mention of this, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u158	There were some questions. I will try to answer that because these issues were actually addressed at the committee meeting. As far as cities are concerned, and their preparation for the introduction of this infrastructure today, because we have to tell ourselves honestly that today... First of all, it is a technology that is already entering the West of Europe, quite bravely entered... E.g. Norway recently noted that 52 newly registered vehicles last year... [[Percent.]] 52% The newly registered vehicles last year are hybrid, electric vehicles. To be honest, let me tell you this: the Norwegian experience is so easy that 156 000 vehicles are registered in Norway every year. This does not apply to Poland, where there are 1 million 200 000 vehicles registered annually, in other words It's not that scale. It was not enough that one of my colleagues in Norway, who I spoke to, quite rightly pointed out to me. The Norwegian unemployed earns about twice as much as you, who is a senator of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: What about courses?]] He's making money, which means he's getting it from the state. That's the basic condition. However, Norway has, for example, established a certain cut-off, the upper limit preventing the purchase of luxury electric vehicles of the Tesla type. The legislator cut it off. Norwegian experiences, Swedish experiences, which I could tell you more about, because that's what I was doing... That is, the situation in which the purchase of vehicles is so fast, that in Stockholm there is an evening fight for sockets. Stockholm has 40%. sockets less than willing to connect to them in the evening. In practice, if we use 230 V sockets, classic ones, it's loading a new vehicle... The newer the vehicle, the longer the charge. Why? Battery capacity is growing. It turns out that older batteries don't work in the northern countries. In Poland too, I suppose. Because a large part of the energy is used to heat the vehicle. But people don't want to break down, they don't want to drive cold vehicles. I was talking about Norwegian experience, briefly about Swedish, but very interesting is the Dutch experience, because it was founded and here I will refer to the current that you are talking about, that people will load these cars at night, during the so-called. Silence of the night. It is natural and it would be very desirable from the point of view of the recipient. Besides, government officials also pointed out that it would be good for people to load their vehicles at night. However, the Dutch experience shows that this is an abstraction. It would be good if we did, but we've already confirmed that people can't be persuaded to do that. That is not enough, I will tell you what is happening in Poland if Poles try to dominate a certain order of energy use. In July, August 2015 blackout took place. As a result of the 19 and 20 degree of power supply, they were so-called. restrictions on energy supply. One thousand 600 businesses were ordered to reduce consumption within the statutory time limit. This ended with the fact that entrepreneurs in 1 000 200 cases did not submit to this order. In other words, we can forbid many things in modern times, but we cannot forbid people from having access to electricity. How do we know that? In the same year, mandatory procedures introduced by the Energy Regulatory Office were launched because Poles did not submit to this process of forced power shutdown. As far as urban infrastructure is concerned, in the bill, according to the reality we have today... Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important And that's the kind of pick that makes it possible to do a lot of operations. That technology is changing every year today, this technology. And that the standards that were in force at the time of the introduction of electric vehicles in the West today are completely different. This is because the weakest cell of electric vehicles, i.e. the production and charging of batteries, is developing very intensively. It's a gigantic advance that's hard to keep up with. But this is also because the way they are loaded changes. Classic charging, if we're talking about urban infrastructure, from 230 V socket, in the case of a car that looks normal, so I'm not talking about some electrical Toys, but with normal cars, e.g. charging e-Golf, for today takes from 13 to 14 h. That's the time of full recharge of this vehicle's batteries. There are faster ways to charge. This car can be charged in 30 minutes to 80%, but provided that we have a very high current charging station. However, this is a technology which excludes the presence of random people, mainly because we would have to give certificates to Poles to operate high power devices. There's no way you're connecting something that's going through a solid current of several dozen amps, close to a hundred, and that's for a simple reason. Well, mistake, error will probably end deadly. It's a lot of electricity and you have to be able to operate it. The number of accidents would have had a very bad impact on the development of this whole zone. That's why we know there are solutions. I know that, unfortunately, from the press. But the chance of such stations standing next to our blocks is none, unless humanity goes in such a direction, in such safeguards that disable the presence of people. Technologies are known in the world I didn't say anything about it, but I'm just gonna say it a little bit. Wireless charging e.g. buses during their stop at stops. Only that after leaving the bus it would be necessary to disable the possibility for someone to enter this stop because they could boil on this disc. Well, there's known technology, and it could be used. That would be wise. There's a bus stop, there's a bus pulling up to this bus stop, people get in for 2 minutes, it takes two minutes to load up, and the bus leaves full of energy. It's possible to charge cars on the way right off this road. Only then you'd have to build all the roads all over again. And there's also the risk that someone's gonna make a mistake, not adapt to technology, and get on that road, and it's gonna end up uncomfortable; you have to be careful that the current is fast. Sorry about the joke. Urban infrastructure is not prepared for this today, but that's what this bill is for, to make some preparations. And thank the government for taking up this difficult challenge. And that's a tough challenge. Yesterday's committee meeting Perhaps somebody would like to follow up on its course, showed that this is a very difficult challenge. As regards the possibility of connecting with these charging stations e.g. on the estate where I live, in a housing estate made up of dozens of blocks in a small town, I'll be honest: I don't see it, and that's for a simple reason. It's hard to put a car in my neighborhood. When I come tonight, the parking lots around the blocks are full. And I'm fighting to find a place somewhere further away, 300, 400, 500 meters from the block where I live. And where I can do it, for example. Under the woods, under different circumstances, not necessarily legal, I'm gonna leave this car, and I'm gonna go home angry. I'm sorry to say this, but that's the way it is. That's not much, I can't really imagine how you can pull out of a block... I mean, I once saw a situation where someone was charging the battery, and on the third floor, he was pulling the tritical extension cords connected to this battery to charge it. It's possible, but I'm afraid that's not where it's going. And another thing. This fast charging of electric cars in today's technology takes place through three-phase networks. Triphase networks due to high voltages and higher currents That's more power. They are also not suitable for use for ordinary mortals. Therefore, the possibility of such charging by outsiders is excluded. You can buy a single-family cottage, but these stations aren't cheap. Question: "Why aren't we going towards not giving off so much as financing the charging station?" That's the question to the government, to the legislator who prepared the bill. Why am I talking about this? Let me give you an example of Ireland, a very interesting example. Ireland has recently paid EUR 600 to the charging station and EUR 6 000 to each electric car. Everyone. If the car has any hybrid element, that's the bonus. For obvious reasons, we can't afford it. We are a country at a different level of development, but we will strive for this in the future, also because today our vehicle stock is a dozen million vehicles that we would like to exchange. There is still a sensitive issue about the state of our energy networks and the possibilities of our power plants. This was also mentioned at the committee meeting. These are already very technical, very specialized cases. There was a forecast presented by the Ministry to take account of the development of electromobility, the development of the network, which showed moderately delicately what would happen if, in 10 years' time, this was the plan. We will have a million electric vehicles in Poland. The senators also expressed their opinions. They were slightly different from what the government represented.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u159	Thank you very much for your very comprehensive and at the same time extremely interesting answer. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, like your marshal, I've listened to all of this with great interest, admiring your detailed knowledge, but I can't draw any conclusions. Are we supposed to support this bill... [[Voice from the room: Support.]] ...or should we be against it? I couldn't get it. [[That's right, for or against?]] [[At the committee meeting, we couldn't figure it out either.]] Would you suggest anything at all?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u161	Mr. Senator! Dear Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm in quite a predicament right now. The senator knows I'm on the stand as rapporteur now. It is my duty to report what happened at the committee meeting. Allow me not to answer that question. Mr. Marshal, may I? Because it doesn't concern the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u162	I am surprised that the Platform senators want to receive instructions from the PiS senators on how to vote. I'm very pleasantly surprised. [[One hint, Mr. Marshal.]] We can pass on our ballots to you. [[Because we generally have trust in people.]] Senator Hare and then Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u163	Thank you very much. The Senator rapporteur used the term "difficulty bill." I would rather say that she is very complicated in her own matter, because it concerns many aspects. We worked in the Foreign Affairs Committee some time ago on EU documents on the electromobility market, low-carbon mobility or zero-carbon mobility. Such wordings were used in these documents. Here you have developed it very widely, for which I thank you very much, because in a way I understand the difficulty. I would like to ask: is there a Polish manufacturer of low- or zero-emission vehicles? Will this law not lead to the entry into the Polish market of foreign entities? Do we have stations, bases, charging stations? You say it could be stops and different points in the road. The top-ups are huge, but they combine with a large amount of financial and organisational resources. And one more question. Did the committee discuss the interest of Polish cities, namely local governments, the use of low-carbon vehicles or emission-free vehicles in public transport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u164	Question one. Are there Polish producers? They exist. I know myself, and I'd have to do an ad here... Yeah, but I can tell that producers like that exist. E.g. There is a manufacturer in Silesia who has been doing this successfully for years and has done so at a very high technical level, because since he has been involved in energy, electrical machines, he has some of the best engine and generator designers in Europe. This is the company Komel, which has 100% electric vehicles in its offer. These are not vehicles built on the basis of random form, but vehicles implementing technical solutions to existing bodies. They implement different solutions e.g. the name will fall here again, but there is no other way to say it. Fata Panda. And this is a perfectly decent body, which means you can get into this car... I say decent because there are also electric vehicles dedicated to society, which are deprived, for example. The side window. Well, it would be difficult in Polish conditions to move a vehicle in which the driver sits in front of the passenger round, because inside, between them, like there are batteries in the tunnel, and there are no side windows. Well, these are solutions a little bit more for... But there are solutions to that, too. There are manufacturers installed in Poland who have electric cars in their offer. I do not know if you know that in Poland there is a majority of Fiat 500 produced in the world. There is also an electric Fiat 500, which is 100% The comfort car, when it comes to the comfort of sitting in it is heating, is air conditioning if anybody wants. Of course, today's problem is coverage, which means it's over... limited ability to travel all these miles... All experience resulting from the comfort of driving such a vehicle indicates that this is a step in the right direction, because these vehicles do not generate vibrations or additional sounds, except for the minimum. And that makes the comfort of driving such a car very high. There is also a proposal of Opel, specifically Opel in Gliwice... [[The senator is doing an advert for individual entities.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But that's not the point. As far as Polish producers or producers installed in Poland are concerned, because this is unforgettable, such producers exist, but they never had support at a level that would enable them to develop nationwide. They never got that support from the government, they didn't get any support, none to make it clear. About the communes... That's an interesting problem. There is a fund in Poland, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, which announced that it had signed an agreement until 2023 with 27 municipalities in the country... [[With local governments.]] ...with local governments. And he's replacing this community. It's a public statement. And these municipalities, in accordance with the decree of both the government and this fund and the authorities of these municipalities, are to be supplied with nearly a thousand... There was a 923... 922 cases... [[Vehicles.]] ...they're supposed to stock up on the back of vehicles, zero-emission buses at the expense of this fund. The planned cost of this public aid is PLN 2 billion 200 thousand. And this is a step forward towards collective transport in cities. As far as the zones are concerned, because I didn't talk much about these zones, actually the disengagement zones are controversial. Controversial is e.g. the fact that not only those vehicles from which nothing is extracted are to be admitted into these zones, but also those vehicles which are supplied with gas. Vehicles are to be allowed into these zones, from which something is most extracted, i.e. both diesel and petrol cars, which are in the privileged catalogue. But the interesting thing is... That's what the senators asked, too. That you can find in the catalogue e.g. employees of the National Tax Administration, with a total of tens of thousands but no disabled persons. To me, it's... That's what I asked, but... Well, that's how the legislator planned it. [[The designer.]] I'm sorry. Not the legislator, of course the person Excuse me, senator. The guy who designed it. That's the plan. Well, people with disabilities... [[We're the legislator.]] Yes, sir. You're right, Senator. I'm very sorry about that, sir. So much for development in the zones. As far as the development of collective transport is concerned, I said... But as far as the development of collective transport is concerned, they're still... I know about two forms of funding. The first form is funding by the National Centre for Research and Development, except that the amount that is officially given in the literature I know her from literature. It's from 100 to 200 million, so this range is wide. These are 50% different amounts, that's a giant discrepancy. In fact, it is not enough, because such a completely zero-carbon electric bus must have an additional charging station and must have dates for subsequent courses adapted to the capacity of its batteries. As far as hydrogen technology is concerned, I must admit that I do not know the practical application of hydrogen technology in the country. There may be experimental applications somewhere. [[Japan.]] Perhaps... [[Japan applied it.]] [[Voice from the room: Engines two?]] No, no, I'm talking about practical application in Poland. There was a question about practical application in Poland. I don't know how to use it. I don't know of a case where someone buys hydrogen on the free market to drive a carbon-free vehicle. There is also the question of the inclusion of gas-powered vehicles in the Act. These vehicles do not need to be specifically subsidised, because there are very, very many of them. This is technology. It's almost common. It turns out that it is according to the draft law so emission-free In particular, it is about solid particles, i.e. those responsible for smog That it can be used. However, there is a danger that one of the masters, namely Mr.Kuba Faryś from the Polish Association of Automotive Industry, paid attention to. Yeah, he was talking about it at the committee meeting yesterday. The danger is that no restrictions have been imposed on the type of gas-using engine. In other words, he pointed out that a vehicle whose engine meets the EURO 2 criteria may have a very archaic design, but if it is powered by gas, it will be considered emission-free. These are traps, gentlemen, which we found during the work on this bill. People will come up with it one way or another, because technology in this case goes in very many directions. There's something you need to decide about. And these are the proposals contained in the bill that was presented to you yesterday, which I also discussed today.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borowski. [[I was first, Mr. Marshal.]] Mr. Marshal Borowski... [[There isn't? There it is, there it is.]] [[I'm letting Marshal Borowski pass to...]] Yes? Maybe you were the first senator. [[No, I'll let your marshal pass.]] [[A voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal has switched and there's been a commotion.]] Yes? Maybe now you're Marshal Borowski, then you're Senator Slugocki and you're Senator Zając. [[Mr. Secretary's keeping a list, so maybe... please, Mr. Marshal.]] Unfortunately, there is no secretary in charge of the list, and I have to settle it myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u166	I was beginning to think, Mr. Marshal, that I would report to you on Twitter because you read everything there. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You're welcome.]] So, referring to Senator Grodzki's question about whether you are in favour or not, I would like to explain that this is necessary knowledge. It's not necessarily about instructions. It's just that the opposition senators need to know how to vote. I'll be brief: if you're in favour, they'll vote against it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[It's time for the senators to speak up, and I'll speak up, too.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law is so complicated and goes so far ahead that I believe it must be adopted without any discussion simply because it is the government that takes responsibility for it. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that in 2025... [[A million!]] ...there will be 1 million electric cars in Poland. [[Let's give him a chance.]] He needs a bill for that. Well, what's the point of getting involved? That's why I think that... I don't have any special questions. Just to help, maybe I'll ask you about those charging stations you need. It's supposed to be 6,000 stations, but it's gonna take a long time to charge, half an hour. Can anybody even imagine that we're gonna have 1 million cars that charge in half an hour? [[Longer.]] [[Voice from the room: After 12 hours.]] And after 12 hours. [[Yes.]] I'm sorry, and I said half an hour. So what's gonna happen at these stations? [[I'm gonna tell you, really.]] And there's only 400 high-speed charging stations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u167	Mr. Marshal, I've been reading a very interesting yet futuristic vision lately. [[Yeah, that's right.]] I'm not Stanislaw Lem, but it made me laugh. Namely, a situation in which... you probably know that in the meantime, the technology of autonomous vehicles is still coming. You've probably heard of it. And try to imagine a situation where we communicate with a car using our smartphone. I don't have it, but imagine that those who have it communicate in this way and set themselves up, so to speak, a meeting with the car for an hour, with a certain level of charging it, and the car is circling the city and looking for a free station. [[And that's in the Responsible Development Program, too?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal, I'm talking about a project in 2025. You're asking... But I can go any way you want. I don't represent the government, so as rapporteur, I sailed. Sorry about that, Tall... [[But Senator Borowski is positive...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u168	Mr. Marshal Borowski promotes a very constructive approach Thank you very much for this. But here it is necessary to meet 2 conditions for Prime Minister Morawiecki to implement this programme: the adoption of this law and another election victory, so that we rule by 2025. And in this other matter, we also expect the constructive attitude of the marshal. [[No, no. I can help you on this first case, and I can't help you on that first case.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Senator Slugocki... [[But, Mr. Marshal, quite frankly, this is unspeakable today, because...]] [[Senator Pekkis changed his name? Because Mr. Marshal said Senator Sługocki, and you started talking.]] Yes, I gave the floor to the senator. Unless the senator wants to complete the answer. [[No, no. My wife would be miserable if I changed my name.]] [[The senator isn't happy about this bill at all...]] Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u169	Senator rapporteur, I, of course, value your answer on how you will behave, and that you do not want to reveal how we, the opposition senators, should behave. But I'm not a member of your committee, and I'd like to know what the conclusions were, the results of the committee's work were. Have the senators, ladies and gentlemen, members of this committee, expressed their opinions and opinions? There may have been some vote on this bill. I'd ask you to report it if there was anything like that. And referring to the digression you've made, i.e. Stanisław Lem... I was trying to find an answer on the Internet. Because Stanisław Lem also said that the Internet is the answer to unanswered questions But as for this bill, I didn't find the answer. And I would end up like this, Mr. Senator: let's not put sand in electric car modes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u170	Don't give up. I'm all for it. Don't talk. Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, as far as Stanisław Lem is concerned, the committee was de facto not involved. Besides, Mr. Stanislaw Lem, the sacred memory... [[Yeah, that's absolutely...]] ...is an absolute pattern for futurologists. And as for the question, I'm... sorry, I'm looking here... Yes, there was a discussion at the committee meeting, which lasted several hours in total, so various questions were asked. I tried to briefly summarize the inspiring ones, it seems, the greatest emotions. There was a vote because the committee president proposed and this proposal was accepted... supported by the committee To support the adoption of the draft without amendments. [[No corrections.]] And that was the farthest conclusion. And since this was the farthest conclusion, it was supported. [[Voice from the room: Oh, that's why...]] [[But are you happy or not happy?]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u171	Thank you very much. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! First note: I think it's a saying not to put sand in modes, in case of electric drive, it's out. It doesn't use gearboxes... [[But it was like that with a wink in my eye.]] ...because the range of variation in turnover... [[Voice from the room: There are no modes.]] ...is very wide and there's no need for modes... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: It was a metaphor.]] First, I have this question: is there a map of energy availability? It's about the electricity of the country. Because it seems to me that to this extent we will have the first problem if we want to start electric cars, because most lines, especially on the right side of the Vistula, are barely able to withstand the light load, a little forceful, and sometimes it is turned off. So that you can run the charging station where the power consumption... Well, you know, here some perpetuum mobile expected by everyone doesn't exist, so you have to. it will provide a huge amount of energy distributed roughly equally across the country, and that means huge investments. So the first question is about this map.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u173	The European Union obliges our country to create such stations and equip them with maps as part of existing major transit routes, operating the movement of European Union citizens. Not much, these maps must be available on the Internet. Few of this, each charging point from this map must be marked on the Internet in an active way, i.e. on an ongoing basis, whether this charging point is available or not, after which time. These maps will be created. As far as the actual state of national energy networks is concerned, because that's what you ask the senator, I guess, then I'll say that these maps are known to PSE, the Polish Power Networks, and these maps are presented when it comes to power supply. In fact, from these maps, as the senator rightly raises, you can read where there are areas called areas of energy poverty, areas to which, due to long delays, this energy simply does not reach and does not reach. And there's no way, technically... I mean, no, there's speech, I'll say... I would not like us to narrow this down to the situation that we are dealing with today, because the interesting solution is to combine the autonomous charging points that Germany has proposed. This is a combination of multiple alternative energy sources attached to one large battery. Only that when it comes to this concept, there's no big battery for today. It was proposed to combine photovoltaic sources with wind sources, i.e. wind turbines, and an additional enigmatic source, perhaps very small reactors, but this is really the future. These sources, which already exist, are these: the photovoltaic cells are connected to the windmills, they power the batteries. When someone comes up, even if there's no energy in this place, the devices are powered anyway. I will say that this type of solutions is used by the Polish state during the construction of gates on motorways. If you are moving one of the highways, see that on the poles, so-called. Bridges, such as openwork, at one box there is also a small windmill with a generator and a photovoltaic cell, that is characteristic. This causes that somewhere in the field where humanity has not arrived and will not reach for long, there is energy. You're right, well, we're talking about a future... From my knowledge for today, the electricity grid in Poland is very imperfect. I can only say, it's such a curious thing to say that we have interesting connections with neighbouring countries. On the one hand, the European Union has committed to this, on the other hand, we have not been given the resources. In other words, we do some tasks within our own tasks, but this is due to reasons other than... This is not directly due to the desire to develop our network, but to try to prevent energy deficits in the country. The most energy, and this is a curiosity, we buy from the Swedes. We have this line... Unfortunately, I don't remember the name of this village on the W-W-W-W-W-Well, I believe that's what it's called, that's the line from Believin to Karlshamn in Sweden. The line is 256 km long, the total current cross section is 2 000 100 mm2 and this line allows the transmission of 600 kW. In other words, in this way, we can buy energy from Sweden and, by the way, from Lithuania, what we do, but we can also use this way to help countries that are not able to do it. The interesting thing is that in this way, such a network between two countries is supported by the German people, who, due to some elementary errors in the development of their energy in recent years, had enormous problems with energy. Another country on the list of these deliveries is Ukraine, we take a little from them. We take a little bit of energy from the Czechs, we're on the downside, so we import, we take a little megawatt hours from the Slovaks as well. We don't have a connection with the rest of the countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u174	Thank you very much. [[Can I add one sentence?]] Senator Hare wants to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u175	I would like to add a point to that. Well, in one of the scientific publications I was able to read that there are countries that have been rebuilding their energy network for several years, based on completely new transmission technologies, preparing for the use of electric propulsion. [[And what would new transmission technologies be?]] For example, the transmission lines are constructed completely differently. This is about Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u176	Russia does not have this problem, but Russia's energy potential is incomparable with the potential of any other country in the world. As a result, energy potential... If Russia wants to develop its energy in any direction, it can afford it simply because there even energy carriers have no market price, the price of energy carriers in Russia is a certain economic and political concept. It is similar with the attempt to exchange this energy with other countries. The exchange of such energy is not... But we're totally running out of it. I'm sorry. What the committee was discussing. We are talking about some geopolitical issues. Here is the economy, the economy, the technology development... This is mainly the pursuit of political goals. It wasn't at the committee meeting, really. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[We believe, we believe.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u177	Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I rarely ask questions to the senators, but in this case you want to, because you want to listen to the answers. First question. Why is an average electric car, purely electric? I mean, from what I'm gonna say, driving point of view... Yeah, wheel technology, transmissions, bodies, etc. It's been contained a long time ago. What happens when you take out the internal combustion engine and put in the electric car that suddenly costs so much, practically twice? Is this an artificially maintained price level, or is it a result of something? Is there any rational reason for this, or is it simply so? Question two. Can cell technology at the moment assure us that by 2025 we will be able to move by car, I would say, generally available, which is not urban, whose range is, let's assume, up to 100 or 150 km, but one that we can average the distances we travel in our country without charging? All right, I'll shoot, 500 kilometers. Our country is not that big, and few cars drive from the end to the end, let's assume that it will be a route from a given village to the capital, to the headquarters and back, well, let it be 600 km. Are there such technologies at the moment? Can they be financially available, or will they develop enough to be accessible to the average user? And one last question. I found in the opinion that we are also implementing the Directive of the European Parliament. If I hear something like that, I'm starting to orb, the red light is starting to shine because these directives are different. Question: "Do we simply have the task of implementing the directive, or do we really... mean not so much to implement the directive as to write down the law that this directive is implementing, or do we really want to develop electromobility?" 'Cause I'm not sure these two things overlap. This is the first part of the question. And second: isn't it e.g. Is it too early for that? Simple thing: are there standards for plugins used to charge an electric car? If we use the car that we use here, we go to Spain, we charge it too?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u179	Okay, one at a time. As far as the price of an electric car is concerned, it is mainly shaped by the price of cells. It is said, because unfortunately there is no objective information about this, that the price of batteries, cells is half the value of the whole vehicle. For hybrid vehicles, this is a lower row, but for purely electric vehicles, we are talking about volumes that must ensure smooth movement at a speed of up to 120, 130 km/h. And the assumption is that these... [[Voice from the room: Hybrids.]] ...the cells ensure smooth movement in the ranges established by the manufacturer if the car moves without heating and air conditioning at a speed of up to 90 km/h. As far as prices are concerned... Purely electric vehicles, vehicles which have achieved market success In other words, their qualities are not primitive, but correspond to what people want to drive. For example, these are Tesla vehicles. At the same time, Tesla emphasizes that despite the very high prices of its products... He's got three models at his disposal now. I'm not really suggesting you try to buy any of them, because you're not gonna get them, new vehicles. I'll tell you why. As far as Tesla's most expensive model is concerned, it is available on one of the portals on the Polish market. But I understand that's not the gentleman's question. Because it is a price which is absolutely abstract for most of us, even we present here, not to mention the rest of Poland. The prices of Tesla's cheapest models start at $35,000, there, abroad, and these are models that have the capacity of batteries. I'll give it to you at 60 kWh. As far as electric motor technology is concerned, except for a very expensive and quite rare element called neodymium, which is used in electric motors with fixed magnets... These are the ones with the highest efficiency 96% , approaching 96% efficiency. The only limitation is the availability of neodymium. This neodymium, no matter how much we put on the table, it's just not in the world. That's the reason for the inhibition... This is, for example. one of the main reasons for stopping the next generation of windmills entering Germany. Because the Germans stopped not because they have no technology, because they have developed technologies that enable the efficient conversion of wind energy into electricity, but they lack this element, neodymium. And that's why we hit the wall here. That's why we use basic technology, we go down with the efficiency of the electric motor, it increases its mass, it decreases its parameters, it increases energy consumption, which is not the desired direction. As far as the amount of energy we can store is concerned, I gave it to you. It is in completely electric vehicles that are able to drive 200, 300 km... That's the range the Americans give, and he's reliable. This is the top today. Of course there are other vehicles. Tesla offers vehicles that range 500 km. But, ladies and gentlemen, the price of such new vehicles exceeds $100,000. This is an abstraction for us. When it comes to Golf, e.g. e-Golf's latest generation, the manufacturer states that it is able to travel 130 km on batteries after full charge with possible heating or air conditioning or 160 km in favorable conditions, i.e. without providing thermal comfort. And this is a range of large but real in purely electric vehicles. Is there any chance of a vehicle being built that... Oh, what else is very important? Ladies and gentlemen, purely electric vehicles, which are the desired solution in connection with the installation of a large number of cells However, it is a 60.80 kWh of energy, that is, the powerful power accumulated in this vehicle. They're heavy, they're about 20/30% heavier than a classic vehicle with a corresponding combustion engine engine. And unfortunately, the heavier the vehicle, the more energy it takes to move. If we add energy, we add kilos, so the vehicle gets even heavier, so we need even more energy, we have all the traction parameters. If the vehicle is heavier, the tyres that have to withstand not so much acceleration, because there is no problem here, as the braking, because this is a problem, must be wider. If the tyres are wider, the rolling resistance changes, i.e. energy goes to loss due to rolling resistance. And this is an attempt to find solutions, an attempt to find the optimal that will give the best effect. With today's technology, the real range is 200 km with favourable weather and road conditions. [[Voice from the hall: And with the wind.]] I didn't say that, but I'm afraid so. [[Voice from the room: No air conditioning?]] Yes, Mr. Senator... I mean, with the air conditioning, with the heating, honestly... The producers are very honest about it. In the case of this mentioned e-Golf... Because it's a very good solution in the sense that he doesn't scare his looks, he looks like a normal car and that's why he's so popular. Fewer, some developed countries They're proposing something like this... And that's a good solution. Germany proposes an e-Golf package with a basic Golf for 30 days. If you use a car just to drive around the city, and once a year you go on vacation or twice a year, you get a rental regular Golf for a vacation, and you drive an electric Golf around the city. Only that Poles very much like private property and therefore subscriptions, rentals, etc. That's not an option. [[What about the plugs?]] I'm gonna ask you one more time. [[It's about the plugs. Are they standardized yet? Isn't it too soon?]] But I'm expressing... I'm sorry. At this point, I'd have to express my opinion, because last night, absolutely no one talked about it. It is true that today we have three types of charging: so-called. low-voltage charging, which is not low at all, because it is 230V, three-phase charging and DC charging stations, but I will not answer that question. [[Mr. Marshal, may I make a formal point?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u180	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u181	Mr. Marshal, your knowledge of Senator Pekkis is so vast that we won't get out of here. I'd like to draw from this place as long as possible... [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] ...but there are limits. And my formal conclusion is, Mr. Marshal... I am modeling here on the request of Senator Martynowski, a motion made at his own time. Namely, I suggest that we move on to the next stage, so, I guess, hearing a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u182	It's amazing that the opposition wants to embarrass the debate in parliament. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[See, that's what happened.]] [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Unbelievable. [[But we're modeling on the ruling crew, just like that.]] Unbelievable, Mr. Marshal. [[This is a formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal, so that if there is no objection, let's move on.]] And can we still allow Senator Hare to speak? [[There you go.]] Thank you. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u183	It's a beautiful thing to say. It's catchy, even if it's really humanistic. I would like to ask you about one problem, very serious, related to electric cars, especially the whole charging system. What about the electromagnetic field? We're in a box called a car with a huge electromagnetic field gradient. What's gonna happen to us?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u184	I'll answer that. I'll be honest. I once discussed this with the senator, who has experience, also has knowledge, but, Senator, this was not the subject of yesterday's committee deliberations. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u185	I don't know if I can let the senator speak. Will the marshal agree?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u186	Mr. Marshal, this whole thing, this whole bill, if you'll allow me... Mr. Marshal says it's okay. [[You'll be here in a minute, Mr. Minister with responsibility for matters...]] I would like to ask you this precisely because yesterday, when we discussed this subject, this point, this bill at the committee meeting, I had the impression that the senator was as if he were even critical of this law. [[No.]] That's how I figured it out. And I'm anxious to say that I'm a little worried about it, and I'm not hiding it. My question is this: do you think that we should proceed with this bill in this form, or should we make a lot of amendments to it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u187	Mr. Marshal, this is a question that repeats itself. I ask you kindly to skip them because my views were not the subject of the committee's work yesterday. I'm very sorry, senator, but... [[They were very clear, and that's why it bothered me. Because I'm late for this discussion...]] Disturbed? Come on, Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u188	But I understand that after these suggestions from Senator Golby, the Platform will support this bill. [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Energy has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening... Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u189	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but I'd like to ask you something, Minister, to talk seriously about this bill. Well, I have three questions, actually. The first is: what is the main purpose of this law? Whether we want electric cars to drive in Poland and, let's assume, by 2025, 1 million of these cars, whether we want to implement a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, or for example. Do we want the electric car industry to develop? I don't know, let's say we're building a factory, a editing plant, and we're jumping a stage. We don't make cars that go away, we just use ready-made solutions and jump right into the level of the electric car. Or we can go in another direction. Suppose we spend a lot of money on the development of research and take over the fantasy maybe a little bit. World leadership in research into new technologies related to cells, batteries, in general electricity storage. Minister, I would ask you to explain to me why we should issue this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u190	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! Thank you very much for including me in this discussion, actually very interesting and raising a number of different questions that I think will be answered by me on the one hand and the world on the other. In a sense, electromobility is a trend that is conditioned by a number of different breakthroughs. First of all, we are clearly dealing with a technological revolution. As far as energy stores are concerned, they're getting cheaper. This revolution comes to us primarily from small electronics. For the first time lithium-ion batteries in this miniaturized version were used in devices such as smartphones, so in this sense the technological progress that electric vehicles use today is somehow independent of the automotive sector. It was only at some point that the thought began to arise that a battery-based vehicle could, in the longer term, be an equivalent vehicle in terms of profit and cost, in relation to the combustion vehicle, and over time also outrun it. Indeed, today's analyses show that in the years 2020 to 2022 such a breakthrough will take place and that the electric vehicle will at least compare with the combustion vehicle at its cost of use. However, we must take into account that there are two costs here, which consist of the total cost of using such a vehicle. The first is undoubtedly the purchase cost. As far as the cost of purchase is concerned, today it is a cost higher than the cost of a combustion vehicle, but we must remember that this cost-benefit balance also largely consists of the cost of use. As far as cost of use is concerned, the electric vehicle has a very high advantage. Why? Because the electricity that's needed to drive an electric vehicle 100 km in relation to the fuel that's necessary at that distance... Well, the ratio of these costs is like one to a few. If the electric vehicle uses between 15 and 25 kWh per 100 km today, the normal vehicle will consume at least 6 and 25 l of fuel in the urban cycle. Depending on the type of tariff we are going to apply, these 15 and 25 kWh costs between 5 and 10 PLN. In relation to these 6 and 7 litres of fuel, which today costs on average, rounded, 5 PLN for 1 l, we are talking here about an amount of 30 PLN. So if we are talking about this electromobile revolution, we are talking to a large extent about the cost-benefit account, which is gradually changing more and more in favour of the electric vehicle. We estimate that such an average vehicle will give at least PLN 5 000 a year fuel savings. Let us not forget that this is a vehicle that is otherwise constructed. We say about the combustion vehicle that is made up of several thousand moving parts, the electric vehicle does not have many of these moving parts. He also doesn't have an engine that needs to be heated constantly. It directly transfers this propelling force from the battery to the electric motor. If we looked at such an electric vehicle, we would notice that the number of moving parts used in this vehicle ranges from 18 to a maximum of several dozen. So a row of magnitude, or actually, in a physical language, 2 rows of size less, or more than 100 times less moving parts are in an electric vehicle than in an exhaust vehicle. This affects, in some perspective, a very important element in terms of the cost-benefit calculation of the use of such a vehicle, namely lower maintenance costs and significantly greater durability of such a vehicle. Therefore, the idea of a gradual transition to alternative vehicles is an idea that should lead to global resource savings in the future. And from the perspective of the user, you can say that this vehicle will be cheaper. Today's assessments of how large the market will be when it comes to electric vehicles say that in the 2030 perspective, the global market for electric vehicles will be worth around $1,000 800 billion. However, it must be said that today it is a market in its infancy. The value of the market, which falls on combustion vehicles today, also largely includes the know-how which is related to the combustion vehicle. As far as traditional producers are concerned, e.g. leading European companies, this percentage of their intellectual value is today linked to an internal combustion engine, this is where the most patents are located, this is where the most intellectual values are located. These 1 000 800 billion dollars I mentioned, i.e. the global value chain in the 2030 perspective for electric vehicles, is completely complete. a new area, a niche, which today is found in its infancy. In a way, we're dealing with a kind of new hand. This new hand is undoubtedly an opportunity for industry, an opportunity for those who will be ready to respond to this new challenge. Do we know all about how this market will develop? No. Are we able to predict all the issues today? No. That is why we are talking about a certain anticipation of the future, we are talking about some innovation. In other words, such a road map as in the case of established trends and their extrapolation must replace us with a certain direction, a compass. Depending on what direction this compass will show us, we will have to choose a path that will maximise the benefits for the Polish economy to the right extent. Mr. Senator was kind to point out that this electromobile revolution could be an opportunity for Polish industry. It could be a very big chance. We are doing everything we can to prepare the Polish industry to prepare these thousands of companies working today in the automotive sector, so that they can find a new place for themselves in the manufacturing chain, which is connected with electromobility. Because this chain, as I mentioned, is going to be very transformative. If today's global so-called. Tier 1 suppliers for car manufacturers, which means the biggest ones... These are largely also organisms that are based on this know-how accumulating over the last dozens, and sometimes more, because even 100 years in Western Europe... And they de facto led to the fact that it is very difficult today to be a first-order supplier for companies such as Mercedes or BMW. This is largely for subcontractors in Poland in the framework of the second and third order subcontracting. These 1 000 companies, 170 000 jobs, production of more than 100 billion PLN... Today, to a large extent, they are suppliers of the second and third order. If we want our industry to be able to produce products with higher added value, and thus, if we want Poles to be able to obtain higher purchasing power, then we need to create a chance for them to jump to this higher place in the process of technological reshuffling that is taking place today. Therefore, the very important motivation for the entire electromobility development plan, part of which is this law, is the very important motivation for this law, is the issue of industrial development. But the implementation of the EU directive mentioned by your senator is also not meaningless. At EU level, this issue has already been resolved in such a way that a Directive on which for the first time was discussed in 2010, it was implemented in 2014. With the intention to ensure that all Europe is able to move on the basis of these alternative fuels. Because if the European single market is to be a trampoline for the new industry, and here I am talking from the perspective of the single market, i.e. all EU countries, we must ensure that this infrastructure can move across Europe. And each country has its own set of alternative fuels that it develops, to which it is partly obliged to develop by the Directive, and in part it may be the subject of its choice. Therefore, this second element, which is very important from our perspective, is the implementation of the 2014 Directive. And finally... We, considering this new venture of electromobility, also wanted to anticipate the emergence of new business models. And this anticipation in many places is complex, technical, but also based on the evolution of the market, which we do not know exactly how it will develop. In other words, we have included in this law elements that allow different types of entities to create new business models. It is a question of energy storage, it is a question of such, not another way of developing infrastructure. I therefore assume that other business models will also be created on the basis of this regulation, not just the implementation of the directive, but that different business models will be created, which will be looking for new market niches, will first exploit those places that will be the most forward-looking, and in time they will build new technologies, while these technologies, as I mentioned, will drive the Polish industry. So all the three components that the senator was willing to say are present in this bill. This bill certainly does not exhaust them all. We are in the process of proceeding at government level with the Transport Low Emission Fund, which will provide funding for the development of electromobility. It will also provide for additional regulations that will allow us to move forward, as I said, in this regulatory thread. Maybe that's it, Mr. Marshal. Answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u192	Thank you very much. Senator Radziwill, and then Senator Klein. [[I was the first one.]] Yes? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Okay, I'm sorry. Then Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I will refer to yesterday's committee meeting because this is important from the point of view of proceding this bill. You said you were gonna check it out. If we do not adopt this law without amendments, then the legislative process will be extended and Poland will have to pay penalties for not implementing this directive from 1 February. Are you really confirming this, and it is so, and so many of our comments and questions make no sense? Because no one wants us to pay the penalty on 1 February because of the failure to implement this directive. Therefore, it would be urgent to amend the law, because the Minister himself suggested, in agreement with some of my proposals, that it should be introduced into the law. So this is an important question when it comes to proceding. The second simple question is: if one of us has this type of electric car... Will it be possible to charge these batteries at home, in your garage, your house, without any restrictions, and there will be those sharpenings that result from the bill? Third case. You say here that this law creates opportunities for creating a new market for entrepreneurs who will be able to operate in this market, but in practice it is being introduced, e.g. in this area related to charging cars, i.e. charging stations, de facto monopoly, because only energy distribution system operators will be able to supply and sell energy at these charging points. Is that necessary? Shouldn't we rather open up the market so that wherever possible, we can build, create these charging stations and everyone can install them? They must at most meet the right conditions for everyone to be able to connect their car to this device so that there really are no such restrictions. Why on earth would I say that? Your vision of opening up the market at this crucial moment is about monopolization or duopolisation of the market. But the first question is essential. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Michał Kurtyka: Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u194	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u195	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. It is indeed justified and, as I mentioned at the committee meeting, indeed on the part of the European Commission... There is a risk that the Commission may request a periodic penalty payment and a lump sum in the event of non-implementation of the directive, and indeed this deadline is chasing us, as the senator was gracious to say. [[We're not gonna pass February 1st, we're gonna pay the penalty.]] Yes, unfortunately, there is such a great deal of risk. Therefore, I would think that... [[You're saying it so softly.]] This is a decision that is based on the new guidelines, Mr Senator, and it is not entirely clear how the Commission will implement these new guidelines. We are in a somewhat precedent situation where this implementation involves the entry into force of the Commission's new guidelines at the same time. Therefore, there is such a very serious risk. From my perspective, the issue of this law is undoubtedly an issue that we will have the opportunity to discuss, which we will certainly have the opportunity to return to. Why? That's because, like I said, It is a law that must live, which must respond to changing market realities. We will certainly ensure that, as close as possible to dialogue with the sector, we eliminate these elements at non-legal level, but I also do not exclude that we could return to your senators with possible changes at the level of this law or others, because, as I said, The matter is very complex. It concerns not only the creation of a new law, the creation of a new regulatory space, but also road law, the functioning of local authorities, the functioning of administration, energy law. These are very complex, very overlapping issues. Indeed, the intention of the Ministry of Energy is the maximum favourite charging by use at night. This bill certainly gives us the opportunity. It's making some kind of major change at all. The charging service is no longer licensed, this service becomes a normal part of the entrepreneurial activity. And the senator will be able to charge his vehicle as much as possible in the garage in the evening, and the speed of charging will, of course, depend on the power of the charger, the power of the house. However, it is not the intention of the creators of this project any monopolization. It is very important that we are trying to find a formula in which we can reconcile maximum flexibility, the maximum opening up of this new market space, namely electromobility, to new players with the safety of achieving the objectives of the directive. Because what does the directive require us to do? The directive obliges us to establish some kind of core infrastructure in Poland in the perspective of 2020. This core infrastructure has been defined by us as 6,000 free charging points and 400 fast charging points. We would like this infrastructure to be created by the forces of entrepreneurs, and therefore for the first two years this law operates on a market basis. She's opening up the regulatory space. Yes, it will be supported by the Low Carbon Transport Fund Act I mentioned, which will also include a separate envelope, a category of infrastructure development funds. The inclusion of distribution system operators is treated by us as such a final way to fill the gap in places where this infrastructure will not be spontaneously generated by the market, in this case it may also be supported. But we're talking about this situation here... We define that in 32 agglomerations these 6 000 400 points should be created; these are 32 agglomerations and trans-European transport corridors. If such infrastructure is not created by the end of 2020, then distribution system operators will fill the gaps but only quantitative ones. The point is that we are sure that we are pursuing the objectives of the directive, but that we also believe in electric mobility in such a way that electric vehicles can move throughout Poland. So we want to open up this market to the fullest extent to businesses, at the very end, ensuring that the objectives of the directive are met. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u196	Thank you very much. Minister Radziwiłł, right? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u197	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, our objective or duty to implement the directive is obvious and difficult to discuss with. However, it is always possible to implement this directive on the basis of I understand this bill goes on. than implementation. Undisputed to me is the objective of supporting the development of industry to the extent that this case is concerned. However, I would like to ask a question on the other hand, that is, from the side of those who drive cars. Here, on the Village where we are, you can see around cars whose price is probably between 80 and 120 thousand; they are a little cheaper, they are a little more expensive, but there are a lot of them. However, it is enough to travel a few miles, not to mention several dozen kilometers, to meet cars whose price varies between 15 and 20,000 and the age between 10 and 20 years. And such cars drive a lot of people in Poland. Isn't that... Otherwise, I'm gonna say it. How big is the risk that these poor people will finance rich people with very cool toys? Well, there's something like that, isn't there? Now we're gonna donate these plugins, and we're gonna donate them in different ways, and we're gonna give up excise duties... For example, this example, given earlier by your senator, is an example of this Porsche for PLN 1 million. Can you explain the situation? I have to say, it's very disturbing. How many ordinary people can there be somewhere on the horizon the prospect of buying a car like this and using it? And if that is not the case, how much will they simply bear the cost of these wealthy people who can afford such expensive cars to drive them? And the most disturbing are the signals that are out there somewhere in this project, about zones that can only be accessed by electric cars, without- or low-carbon cars. There's a country like Turkmenistan that only lets white cars enter its capital, Ashchabad, because it suits the guy who runs it. These records look like some of the worst possible solutions. I'd be afraid something like that's gonna happen. People who are simply not wealthy and who cannot afford an electric car will not be able to enter the centre of Warsaw... [[Thank you very much, Minister.]] What's the risk?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u198	It's been a minute. Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u199	Thank you very much. The electric car is a car, which will most likely receive in small agglomerations in the first row. Excuse me, in urban agglomerations, but not necessarily small. Small, large and medium, but generally urban. Why? Due to the fact that there is a limit to battery capacity. Moreover, urban agglomerations are currently facing excessive pollution from emissions of various types of substances and excessive vehicle density. A city like this. Warsaw... We're in a city where 63% pollution is coming from transport. It's a lot. In this context, going towards electromobility is a way for us to broadcast in city centres. as little pollution as possible. We assume that, as I mentioned, around 2020, 2022, when the price of an internal combustion car equals the price of an electric car, we will also have an offer of cheaper urban electric vehicles, which, first, will be more accessible Priced rather than present, and secondly, will be vehicles produced in Poland. Hence, the whole effort involved in this programme, Minister, is to support the development of Polish producers. 4 power companies joined forces to create ElectroMobility Poland, which announced the competition for the Polish electric car. All those who applied for the competition had the opportunity to present vehicles in 2 categories: either L7e or M1. These are small urban vehicles. In the case of a L7e vehicle, there is a limitation on speed, but also a very significant simplification from the point of view of approval. Vehicles of type M1 are normal small urban vehicles. The price that vehicle manufacturers assume here is the price from PLN 50,000. So we're talking about a completely different row of sizes. At a time when we will be able to enter the stream of small urban electric vehicles which would be either mounted or produced, built in Poland with the greatest possible added value, then we would have the chance to properly synchronize between the issue of reducing air pollution in city centres and the development of industry. Of course, there is always a dilemma where to start. We found that it was necessary to start by making vehicles that are equipped with a socket, so-called. plug-in, were vehicles that will be supported in the front row. The possibility of supporting hybrid vehicles will very quickly be excluded by the law. It will last until 1 January 2021. We must have the ability to launch a new market, to launch electric vehicles on roads whose presence will justify the creation of infrastructure. And as the production costs of electric vehicles decrease, I hope that they are also built in Poland. We will be able to devote more and more production to the Polish market. It is still very interesting and important characteristics of the Polish car market. The Polish car market is indeed about 1 million 100 thousand, 1 million 200 thousand vehicles, but only about 500 thousand of them are new vehicles. Our entry into the European Union has caused a massive flood of low-cost vehicles with lower parameters in terms of ecological opportunities, vehicles that have come to us from Western Europe. The fact that this market of 500 000 vehicles is a market that is growing very much, because we are increasingly switching to the purchase of a new vehicle, and the fact that we will be able to synchronize with these two movements, i.e. around 2020, 2022, there will be a Polish small city electric vehicle or a vehicle in which a significant part of the value added will be generated in Poland... In such a situation it is a positive flywheel for industry and for the economy, and for society it should start to function.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u200	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u201	Thank you very much. I wouldn't share the senator's opinion, because she's also coming from my feeling that we're used to moving around in the car. But I want to refer here to urban agglomerations, because every major city is working on a strategy of its development and also adapting to this electromobility, but above all it is aimed at achieving a clear improvement in air quality. As the Minister mentioned, and we all know that, however, cars are, to a large extent, especially those old and smoking, a major threat to air quality. With regard to the role of local governments and the responsibilities that the law imposes on them in a way, I would like to ask whether from this fund you mentioned... Is it designed only for the construction of infrastructure, or is it also designed to support the development of electric or gas rolling stock? And what could be the relationship between bus and tram transport? Because some cities put quite significant resources into tram traffic, and not necessarily in bus traffic. And for now, we're just talking about buses, possibly trolleybuses. What could the Minister tell us about this? How could you adapt to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u202	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u203	Thank you very much. Indeed, as the senator points out, it is very important to launch a certain dynamic on the part of urban agglomerations and local governments. They're the ones best placed to take into account the specifics of their cities... [[In development plans...]] ...to identify those areas or zones that would require special treatment when it comes to, for example, the limitation of traffic. And I think we have here... There's no need to reach. up to Turkmenistan or another country that the Minister was gracious to mention, because there are many cities on the domestic European soil that limit intra-city traffic. This is Paris, this is London, these are even cities where automotive companies are based. Because the cities in which BMW and Mercedes are located, such as Munich and Stuttgart, also introduce very far-reaching sharpenings in terms of combustion vehicles. And these sharpenings are also of the nature to which the senator pointed out, namely, to the inhabitants of a certain proposal for the substitution of a vehicle... [[Communication...]] ...group communication. Alternatively, these are new forms of this collective communication, e.g. car sharing, i.e. sharing vehicles, or e.g. such vehicles that can only be rented for minutes, which are left during the day in a normal parking lot and can be used as far as possible. It is true that the car is one of the most prodigal civilizational goods in some sense, and it turns out that we only use it on average for 4% of the time. I am not talking about the fact that in most cases we are far from using its maximum capacity. Such a vehicle, which can take several hundred kilograms, usually transports one, up to 2 people, on average in cities probably one or two people move such a vehicle. Therefore, all actions that are moving towards supporting collective transport are, from the point of view of congestion of cities, from the point of view of ecology, absolutely priority. The Low Carbon Transport Fund is a fund that we've been working on for a year now. This is a fund that will provide significant resources for the development of various types of initiatives developing electromobility. Of course, the fundamental issue is the development of fleet of vehicles powered by alternative fuels. The Act lists many of these alternative fuels. We also have a separate programme, which was recently launched by the National Environmental Protection Fund and the National Centre for Research and Development. We have PLN 2 billion 200 million for the program "Bezemisian transport," which will lead to a thousand of the world's most modern electric buses on Polish roads in the perspective of 2019 to 2023. This thousand electric buses are one of the biggest projects of this kind in the world. And this is the place where together we support the development of industry and at the same time rationalise urban mobility. But this thousand electric buses are not everything we would like the Low-carbon Transport Fund together with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management to support various types of pilot actions, e.g. comprehensive electromobility strategies for local governments. We've asked the National Fund to build a project like this. In this case, all forms of electromobility or alternative fuels, but also the rationalisation of collective transport, will, I think, be promoted. Also the ones you mentioned to me by the senator. It is worth adding that collective transport is not only a bus, it is not only a tram, but also a trolleybus. Cities such as Lublin and Gdynia reach for solutions based on trolleybuses. In the context of electromobility, these are especially interesting vehicles, because on the one hand they are loaded from the pantograph at the moment when they drive and on the other hand they have a certain, so to speak, battery autonomy, in other words, they can separate from the pantograph and drive a certain section. This increases their autonomy and at the same time does not undermine the costs associated with the development of infrastructure. So that all these elements that your senator was gracious to mention, we would like to address, so to speak, the sisterly bill to the Low-Emission Transport Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u204	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? I don't see... Oh, Senator Czerwinski here. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal, last one, really. I promise. And short. Minister, there is only one point in this bill where one small thing is said, namely bikes, mopeds or electric bikes. I know the question of opening up to an electric car is very important because it's so forward-looking, but maybe we can tame people with this electric drive from scratch. Please note that in large cities bike docking stations are the most popular way to travel from one point to another for a symbolic fee. Can he make an electric bike station like this, start with that? Instead of filming around this town, let's go for electricity... It's thanks to this charging station of these bikes. Well, it's nice and useful.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u206	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u207	Thank you very much. Indeed, in the definition of charging we have included the possibility of charging vehicles other than cars, i.e. bikes or mopeds. Therefore, this law gives this possibility. On the other hand, what kind of action I think will depend to a large extent on local communities. They will be the ones who will take the initiative. I assume that the Low-Emission Transport Fund or the National Environmental Protection Fund in this comprehensive piloting component will be able to... It's about addressing such demands. I think he's very good. It is worth this adventure with electromobility to start with the bike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u208	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There isn't. I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I'd like to speak with Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Are you a senator? There you go, Mr. Senator, for a vote in the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! We sometimes make big plans, Prime Minister Morawiecki also, about electromobility, about the fact that it will be one of the pillars of our economy, that we will be able to jump into this moving train, which is the development of low-carbon and electric drives, but in fact we are already late. The number of points that we have is many times smaller than elsewhere. We are implementing the EU directive and we are already falsifying it at the beginning. It's already past the deadline. We want so much that we can't make it with what is mandatory and imposed. And yet the ambition was: we are leaders. That's one thing. Two. I asked questions at the committee meeting, so I tried not to duplicate them here, but I have to say that it is some paradox that the law, which concerns a lot of stakeholders, please countries, these are property owners, these are local governments, these are entrepreneurs and these are consumers, that is road users. The law, which should be comprehensively consulted and which, as the Minister said, more than a thousand actors, is still considered to be the law that was properly adopted without reliable consultation. Why? If these consultations looked more or less the same as in our committee's meeting, we can't be surprised. Ladies and gentlemen, amendments have been tabled. Some were considered reasonable, some even right, only that the final conclusion was such: adopt a law without amendments. Well, if that's the case with those consultations, then I'm not surprised at the bitterness and the voices. We'd like to do our utmost to meet this new challenge, but, as you know... There was quite a lot of talk about this in the discussion not only in the hall, but also outside. I listened to those questions. Of course, it's about stimuli. Some seem very accurate and not necessarily expensive, modelled on Western solutions, especially Danish ones. Well, if you can get into the low-carbon zone, if I have a guaranteed parking spot, if I can get a parking space under my multi-family building because I have an electric car. These may be the incentives that those who can afford in this initial phase of development will make use of this. 'Cause they're gonna say, "Yes, I'm gonna do it, 'cause there are extra benefits to it, except for the financial ones that are. It's positive, it's undoubtedly good. But if those who are to invest, especially in the first period, which is supposed to be actually market-only... the Minister has emphasized it several times. In the first phase these investments will be governed by the market, and incentives are to be provided by the Low Carbon Transport Fund. Therefore, we can expect that this fund exists, that there is an account And that there's money on it or it's supposed to be. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Nothing like that. We're off the budget, and it's not there. This is to be financed by excise payments. Which excise duty? What's the size of it? No response. The impact assessment says that costs will be about 1/3. And 1/3 will be the costs that will fall on consumers. How do you and I go to the voters and say, "Great thing! Look, we're going this way! The voters are gonna ask how much it's gonna cost them, and we're gonna say 1/3. But how much? On what? What's this 1/3? It's the same when it comes to self-government. That's a third, too. And that's where the answers are missing. The Ministry simply writes that there is a difficulty that there is no possibility to estimate. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that in terms of funding we are in complete fog, and yet this should be hard to say: we have so much and so much money, so they will be spent, such and such assistance we can expect. This is a serious conversation. That's why with all due respect for the enormous work... I will soon be bothering the senators with a bill that will create a whole new quality in some area. I'm looking at the minister here because, of course, it's about looking after the seniors and the custody check. It's gonna be a whole new thing. I know how hard this is. I know how hard it is to estimate something and imagine how things will work. It takes time. I understand everything, and I'm respectful of this job. Once again, I'm pointing that out. But I think that such very serious gaps are unfortunately too many. In what I'm going to show you, I wouldn't allow myself to do this kind of thing because I'd be afraid that I'd be exposed to harsh criticism and ridiculous that we're offering something, and we don't know how much it's going to cost, where it's going to come from, who's going to finance it, and so on. That must be the answer. Unfortunately, with this draft law, the answers are... I'm not saying there are no calculations at all, because there are tables and so on. But the answers are partial, backed up by such a number of butts. It depends and when it's really hard to come up with anything. One thing's for sure, ladies and gentlemen. If we are to behave responsibly, we must acknowledge that all this will cost, that this means an increase in excise duty or some new excise duty that will have to affect the fund account, that it will cost consumers and that it will cost local governments. It's from the OSR. It's just that you don't know exactly how much it's gonna cost. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I urge that we be cautious. I think it's wrong, Minister. We could only accept the part that concerns the implementation of EU measures and the other part, because of the rank and seriousness of the matter... It was clear from the questions that we were all keen on this issue and that there were no opponents here to choose this direction. It seems very attractive, also socially and even politically. Except you can't burn it. It would be awful if the bad bill embarrassed such, I think, a sensible project. And she's really not good today. Finally, I would like to say that to some extent this market is already developing in Poland. We can see how many gas cars there are. This is one of those directions, maybe not the most important one, maybe not the one about electromobility, but definitely. At least Senator Pekkis wouldn't agree. However, it is more environmentally friendly if not low-carbon, as it is called in the Act. But, Minister, I will make three amendments. I'm asking you to seriously consider them on the committee. The point is that we take advantage of the fact that we have a terminal, that we have liquefied gas, and we have the chance to create a good European distribution network that meets the requirements, so that this drive becomes even more widespread, especially in collective transport. Mrs. Marshal, I'm gonna put these amendments forward in a minute. I'm just gonna reach...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u210	Okay, I get it. They're on the counter. [[Yes, sir.]] I'll have them from the senator in a moment. Okay, thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Przemysław Terminski, Barbara Borys-Damięcka and Kazimierz Klein made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. You have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. [[Please, please, these are the conclusions. But I think there were others, Senator Terminski...]] [[Those were conclusions.]] Oh, those were conclusions. I'm sorry. [[Senator Klein, too...]] So it was a conclusion. I'm sorry, then I take back what I said. Legislative proposals were submitted in writing by Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, Mr Przemysław Terminski, Mrs Barbara Borys-Damięcka and Mr Kazimierz Klein. The discussion is closed. I'm informing you... And yet, would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Michał Kurtyka: Yes, briefly.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u211	I'm very brief, Mrs. Marshal, but to answer at least the questions that the senator was willing to ask... Undoubtedly, this project is part of a broader idea. And the Low carbon Transport Fund will also be the subject of the House's deliberations, I hope, in the near future. This is an undertaking which covers PLN 4.5 billion, which is a very significant amount, but does not create any new burden, that is only within the framework of the existing excise duty. The target is 1.5%. this excise duty, which is already reserved today, but was not used by the Minister of Energy to promote alternative fuels. This will be aimed at promoting and developing electromobility. However, we also have very important EU funds, which are already and are being used by local governments. Today, around 80 electric buses and dozens of gas buses drive on Polish roads. Next year this number will be significantly multiplied. And all of this is already handled by existing funds, EU funds or by the programme I mentioned, which was constructed by the NCBIR and NFOŚiGW. As far as the impact assessment is concerned, I would allow myself to disagree with the senator. We have thought very carefully and analysed this issue. As for the 1/3, to which the senator refers, this applies. only one small component of this law and cost, not the whole cost. Because this applies to a situation where distribution system operators would have to step in to fill in infrastructure gaps. In this case we have adopted a very conservative scenario and even in such a conservative scenario this row of magnitude is really very small, that is about PLN 34 million per year for the whole of Poland as regards the impact on the household tariff. This really is not a significant burden, and in this case it seems to me, firstly, irrelevant, and secondly, very fairly calculated. Undoubtedly, as far as the number of subjects who came forward for this consultation was concerned, they were not, as the senator was gracious to mention, one thousand, only 100... [[Voice from the room: Dozens.]] [[And that's what I was wrong about. I'm sorry.]] ...and the comments made by these entities took over 1 000 pages. That's why this amount, she, so to speak, duplicated herself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u212	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on Special Arrangements for Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 701 and the report of the committee In print No 701 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Minister, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union a report on the meeting held on 16 January. The Commission has examined the Law on Special Solutions for Organisation in the Republic of Poland of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is an urgent act. This is the bill from the government's submission. The conference will take place at the turn of November and December of this year. Another document, as important as the bill under review, will be an agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Secretariat of the United Nations Framework Convention... It will be an international agreement, hereinafter referred to as an agreement, which will specify in detail the obligations of the Republic of Poland towards the secretariat. The law was adopted by the joint committees by a majority. The committees propose that this law be adopted without any amendments. Although I must say that at the committee meeting, the legislator proposed two amendments. They were not supported by the government, nor were they taken over by the senators, members of the joint committees. I therefore ask the High House to adopt this special law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u214	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for the Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Paweł Salek, Secretary of State, Representative of the Government for Climate Policy, is with us today. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Paweł Salek: No. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the Act on the performance of certain activities of the central authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. The text of the Act is contained in print No 705 and the report of the committee In prints Nos 705 A and 705 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to present a report on the work of the Legislative Committee and a report on the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which discussed the law on the exercise of certain functions of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. This law lays down the principles and procedures for the proceedings of the Minister of Justice, the courts and other bodies in family matters covered by 4 acts of international and Community law: the European Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Judgments on Babysitting and the Restoring of Babysitting, established in Luxembourg on 20 May 1980; the Convention on Civil Aspects of Child Abduction Abroad, drawn up at The Hague on 25 October 1980; the Convention on Jurisdiction, Competent Law, Recognition, Enforcement and Cooperation in Parental Responsibility and Child Protection Measures, drawn up at The Hague on 19 October 1996; Council Regulation No 2201/2003 of 27 November 2003 concerning jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters relating to parental responsibility, repealing Regulation No 1347/2000. The Act specifies that the central authority which carries out the tasks provided for in those conventions and regulations will be the Minister of Justice. Pursuant to the Act, the Minister of Justice will accept requests, i.e. letters made on the basis of the provisions of the Convention and the Regulation, which constitute the basis for the initiation of legal proceedings and letters containing requests for information or other activities provided for in those provisions submitted by the applicant or by a foreign central authority. This law amends 4 laws: the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on Family Support and foster care, the Law on Police, as well as the Opinional Teams of Experts. The Act provides that cases for the removal of a person under parental authority or under the care of a person under the 1980 Hague Convention, initiated and not completed before the date of its entry into force, shall apply to the existing provisions. The Act is to enter into force six months after the date of the announcement. 5 amendments were tabled during the work of the Legislative Commission and 4 amendments were tabled during the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Legislative Commission voted, adopted 3 amendments and 2 amendments were not accepted by the Commission. A minority request has been made to present Senator Shark. On the other hand, in the Legislative Commission... Sorry, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions accepted two amendments and rejected two amendments. Both committees unanimously request the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u216	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, Senator Grażyna Sztark, to present the proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u217	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to propose to you that you accept the amendments of minorities. I would like to say right away that these amendments are strictly technical. They were proposed by your legislator during the process and do not result in substantive changes in the law. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill. Minority amendment concerning Article. 1: In the entry into the calculation, the word "Polish," the word "Polish" and the word "Polish" are deleted. Another amendment: in the article. In paragraph 3, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1 'Polish body' is replaced by 'organ'. Come on, in the article. 26 The words "Polish' are deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 27 in point 3, in Article. 5691 in §4 the word "Polish" is deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 27 in point 5, in Article. 5794 in §2, the words referred to in the provisions on family support and foster care shall be replaced by the words "old-timers', in view of the place of future replacement care. And last amendment: in Article. 27 in point 6, in paragraph 1, the word "Polish" is deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report... Oh, Senator, the rapporteur, please. You're Senator Ambrosik again, aren't you? Excuse me... As rapporteur for the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions... [[I've already introduced...]] Same conclusions, right? [[Yeah, same conclusions. I also presented a previous report on the work of the Human Rights Committee.]] Good. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Wójcik is with us today. You're welcome... Minister Michał Wójcik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u219	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Although the High Chamber is not numerous today, I would like to share some recent information on both our reform in the above-mentioned print, the national part, as well as what is happening on the international stage, because I believe that this is also important. Just today, just a few hours ago, I was in Norway, where we talked about the situation of placing children in the foster families of our citizens. As far as this bill is concerned, I would like to say that the most important thing is that there has never been such a law. There has never been a law that regulates proceedings under the Hague Convention, regulated at the central authority level, and in this case the central authority is the Ministry of Justice. It was a very large loophole in the whole legal system, because some of the cases were dealt with in a customary way. Today we have a very strict procedure, which determines exactly what to do at the level of the central authority, that is, the body, which on the one hand is something more than the office itself, the ministry, but also something less than the court, so it is, you can say, an intermediate body. And that's probably the most important thing I want to discuss here. So it's just that there's going to be a bill. The second point is the issue of specialised courts dealing with such cases. Such cases have so far been dealt with by regional courts at first instance and by district courts at second instance. And there's a lot of district courts at first instance, there's over 300 of them, and there's 45 of them, there's that many district courts. And it was a mistake because in the world, in the most developed systems, this kind of judicial system functions as a specialist judicial system. I would like to tell you that this law introduces a new model: 11 courts of first instance - That's one court for each jurisdiction area of the court of appeal. 11 district courts and 1 appeal court as appeal court. There will be an uprising at the Appeals Court in Warsaw, which will deal with such cases. And that's case number two. The third case, which is important, is a ban on giving children after a judgment at first instance. So until the decision is final, it will not be possible for the child to leave the territory of Poland. This is an important issue, because so far we have had such situations, that even when the proceedings were ongoing and there was no valid ruling, the child was exported from Poland, so the continuation of the activities was significantly difficult. And that's the third important thing we're bringing in here. The fourth important issue is the so-called. Lawyer's coercion. Some of the experiences I've had over a period of months of observation have suggested that something needs to be done about the situation in which we are dealing with citizens and children... Evidence shows that citizens are indeed in the law I'll tell you what. In fact, the child should be with the parent, but they can't prove it. You have to be able to prove it in court, no matter what the role of the court in this case is. And here they often collide with lawyers who represent mostly, in a classic case, a citizen of another country. And they lose, and they cry, and there are dramas, and then they turn to the Ministry of Justice for help. Therefore, we propose a lawyer's compulsion, i.e. lawyers and lawyers will have to act on all these matters. If a person cannot afford to pay the costs of such a professional proxy, then he will be assigned of his own motion and the costs will be charged to the State Treasury. That was the fourth line. And the fifth important issue is the matter of the cassation complaint. An amendment has been tabled on this cassation complaint, which is an exceptional remedy. We agree with the senator's proposal to extend the deadline for filing a cassation complaint from 2 to 4 months. It's practical, so to speak. Indeed, today, when the bill has been passed and emergency actions are involved, where there may be a very short period of time for authorised entities to file this cassation complaint, three such entities are listed in the Act: the Attorney General, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman of civil rights, it seems that nothing will happen if we extend this period to 4 months. And thank you very much to the senators for this amendment. Of course, we agree with her. As regards issues related to other amendments, the conclusions of minorities presented by the honourable senator, these are indeed technical proposals. In the first case, the point is to delete the word "Polish" in the various situations that the senator was talking about. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We did it on purpose. Since this law uses the wording of a foreign central authority, for counterweight to make the text more transparent, we leave the word "Polish" instead of "Polish Central Authority." It's okay, it doesn't have to be. It doesn't seem to be that important. As regards the second amendment and the replacement in Article. 5794 §2 of the Civil Procedure Code, which refers to the need to consult, I would like to say that we are, in fact, referring to the article in this provision. 35a Act on support of family and foster care system. And it seems unnecessary to lean kindly over this particular amendment. Well, it's a technical amendment, but we've read the text a few more times and we don't see our mistake here. So that, ladies and gentlemen, I would be grateful for the adoption of this important... this important reform in fact, because it is a reform of the justice system in the very sensitive part of it. Children appear in the background. These things may not be very much, but enough to actually arouse huge social emotions. These things appear in the media. And you know that very well. These things have a huge emotional charge. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u220	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would anyone like to ask such a question? Senator Sagatovsky. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! That's what happens to a special person like a child, and I mean... because you just got back from Norway, didn't you? In painful matters of Polish children... Besides, it is not only in Norway, but also in the Netherlands, everywhere in Europe there is such a reception of Polish children. And I'd like to ask you something. In Norway in a special way... As chairman of the Committee on Emigration and Poles abroad, I receive such signals from our countrymen and their families. What is the chance to improve these relations? Like the Norwegian government after the conversations you were having, and I followed... I ask you to tell the High House whether there is hope for Polish families in Norway that children will not be taken away from these Polish families.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u222	Please, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: May I ask more questions, Mrs Marshal? I would've referred to a few right away.]] Good. Will there be any more questions for the Minister? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions for the Minister. The first is strictly about the text. A cassation complaint may be brought by the Attorney General, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman at the moment. And why not an interested party, of course, using solicitor's coercion? Have you deliberately limited this to only 3 entities? This is the first case. Two. We, by the way, regulate very well here issues related to conduct in Poland. But such the most sensitive and appalling public opinion were cases concerning Poles outside the borders. Question: Are there symmetrical procedures here, and will we have a greater right to demand symmetry on the other side, especially in Norway or Germany, after this law has been passed? I don't want to mention Jugendamt here at all, because it's... The question is, will it help us? Will ordering our procedure be helpful to the Minister or to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in demanding a proper procedure on the other hand and proper treatment of our children?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u224	Are there any more questions? Please, Senator Lydia Staron.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u225	Dear Minister, I have a question for you. I heard just a moment ago that you were talking about a lawyer's coercion. So, as I understand it, either a legal counsel or a lawyer will have to represent a party, a participant in the proceedings. And if that happens... I understand that there will be an office attorney if the defendant proves that he can't afford a lawyer. Right? And if there's a situation, that... well, I've been dealing with these conclusions a lot. The court really measures very much whether, I would say, it assigns a representative from the public office very cost-effectively. That's the case with all the cases that are going on in the courts today. And if there is no office attorney in such cases, then what will be the situation? Will there be a course of action, or will there not be a course of action? Is the page... If the site is not represented by a professional proxy, what will it look like? She's gonna say she can't afford it, and the court is gonna say she can't afford it. I just want to know what it's gonna look like technically.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u226	Thank you. Senator Zbigniew Silence. Yes, Senator? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u227	Minister, I have a question. [[I don't think the microphone went off.]] Can you hear it now? Yes. Minister, my question concerns the question of the deadline for filing a cassation complaint. Originally, in the law passed by the Sejm, there was a two-month period. Now we have proposed a four-month period, and I have a proposal that it should be six-monthly, which is that it should be done on general terms, such as are valid for other types of civil proceedings. I believe that the multiplication of existences in terms of deadlines for filing a cassation complaint is not very intentional and causes just unnecessary confusion. Let me remind you that these terms are very different. In criminal matters, the time limit for lodging a cassation complaint shall be one month, and in civil matters it shall be two months. Of course, I'm talking about pages. In civil matters, for public entities, i.e. the Attorney General, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman, it shall be 6 months. And I think it's worth keeping that term six months. I am aware that these matters require a special acceleration and a special pace, but what harm do we have to give this six-month period? After all, it is known that public bodies who are entitled to lodge this complaint are aware of the importance of the matter and will probably act sooner than this maximum period of six months requires. But for the sake of clarity, I think it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u228	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u229	Thank you so much for these questions. I'll start with the first question. The senator asked about Norway. Of course, there are self-government organisations in Norway. This is the whole problem, namely that a minister who operates at the central level can always defend himself, saying that in a given country the system was designed so that such cases, i.e. placing children in foster homes, are decided by local authorities. That's Germany, that's how the Jugendamts work, that's how the Norwegian organizations called Barnevernet operate. And that is a very serious problem because, in fact, those caring issues, which most often raise doubts about our compatriots... I'm talking about situations like this. there is a caring procedure and you have to put your child in foster care. Why they are placed in the family, where, for example, the child cannot speak Polish, which violates the Convention on the Rights of the Child, Article. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child 8th and 20th? Why can't we change this system from federal level, so to speak? Well, that's how they have a built-in system. And I would like to tell you that, as a minister, I am unable to change Norwegian law or German law. But I can do something that might lead to systemic changes. It is precisely today that we want to amend the Brussels II bis Regulation, which applies to the Member States of the European Union. Norway doesn't, because as far as Norway is concerned, it works differently. However, in principle, if this amendment to the Brussels II bis Regulation were adopted, in some period of time Norwegian law would probably also be amended in this respect. I am talking here, in particular, about the practical dimension, not just the formal legal dimension. What are we talking about? It's about us always putting the baby in foster care, keeping the baby's identity. Because that's why drama is born. The preservation of identity means the preservation of language, culture, tradition and religion. And that's what we're talking about in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This is not in EU law, it is not in Community law. There's a huge loophole not filled by any recipe. As a matter of fact, you can say that every country regulates itself. And that, in my opinion, is the cause of many dramas. Because a Polish child is placed in a family where it is spoken in a foreign language, he does not understand it, and sometimes even situations happen... A few months ago, there was a situation in Britain where a Christian girl was placed in a family where there was another faith. And that was the problem. The British media discussed whether it was acceptable, what with the identity of the child. I even had the opportunity to talk about this in London a few weeks ago with the spokesperson for the rights of the child, Mrs. Longfield, who knew the issue because we drove around Europe to seek support for the Polish proposal, which was created in agreement with the entire Visegrad Group. This may not be spoken of loudly in the media, but now Poland is really a leader in this respect in the European Union. There were 3 proposals for Polish, Slovak and Hungarian . which have treated the issue of amending the Brussels II bis regulation differently in terms of what needs to be done abroad, when the central authority or the court knows that it is dealing with a child whose country of origin is completely different, and in order to preserve his identity it may be appropriate to place this child in a completely different family, not in a family that uses a language other than the child. And we have created one amendment, the Visegrad Group has prepared such an amendment, you can say, compiled with 3 proposals, Slovak, Hungarian and Polish. It has also gained the support of the Czech Republic, or the fourth country, and we already know for sure that also Romania. Such an amendment to the Brussels II bis regulation will be tabled, ladies and gentlemen... first will be discussed at an informal meeting in Sofia at the end of this month. Everything points to it. It will be formally notified in February, in a few weeks' time, to all the Member States of the European Union. If we could, ladies and gentlemen, amend the Brussels II bis regulation in this respect, it will be a revolution. What is it? The point is, when a case goes to, for example, the foreign court and he sees that the citizen, by example, can tell Polish is associated with another country, speaks only Polish, he is even born in Poland, has Polish parents, how can you place him in another family? What will it be necessary to do because of his identity? Inform the central authority of the country of origin, namely Poland, which will first find someone related to him, because this is the greatest guarantee of maintaining the identity of the child, and if not, the foster family in which he will be able to use the Polish language or in which other elements of the identity of the child will be preserved. And that's very important. The senator asked me what was going on in Norway. I would like to say that there is even a provision in Norwegian legislation that is talking about the need to maintain identity, but perhaps there is a problem with the practice of applying it. But I do not hide the fact that there was a lot of kindness on the part of both ministers, with whom I met in Norway, we talked about this. It's not like that either. And I really want to stress that here. That thousands of children are being picked up. Sorry, I met with such information that Jugendamt receives 20,000 Polish children annually, that in 2017 he received so much. This is bullshit, ladies and gentlemen! To the central authority itself, i.e. to us, to the ministry, such cases are affected by slightly more than 100. We just can't play on social emotions. In Norway... I asked how many of our compatriots live in Norway. Officially over 100,000, because sometimes they come in the season, when some agricultural work is, our countrymen come seasonally. But as a rule, it's over 100 grand. 22,000 are children, our countrymen, who have Polish citizenship, i.e. blood... well, you know. As far as statistical data are concerned, for 1 000 Polish children 3 children are placed by Barnevernet in foster homes. On average, 7 children out of 1 000. Yeah, that too... So in general, we're talking about the number of about 60 children. Well, we're not talking about tens of thousands. I'm not talking to the senator here, but it appears in public space. That's false information. It's also very important that every child just... For us, it's extremely important to just look at every case, but it's not thousands or tens of thousands. The situation will improve in this regard, I am sure of it. The second is the question of why these are three entities. Well, we've identified the most professional actors. Of course it's today, it's still there, for example. Article 2 577 of the Civil Procedure Code, which states that any final judgment could be amended if there are any particular circumstances. There's a rule in the Civil Procedure Code that works. Besides, the Supreme Court leans on this case to make it funnier, and today he leaned on this case, today there were interrogated persons, and on 31 January he will give a ruling in this regard. The question is whether it is possible to amend a final judgment in a situation where we are dealing with a case under the Hague Convention. It's a pretty important thing. But it's art. 577 was sometimes used and sometimes not used by the court. You didn't know how to use it. But the cassation complaint wasn't at all in these cases, that is, an extraordinary remedy. We are introducing this, but we need to adopt a certain professionalisation in this area. Well, there are only three entities that are eligible in this case: the Attorney General... You can, of course, go to the Attorney General, and the Attorney General will know that there is one thing or another. But we also need to remember, Ladies and gentlemen, that we are dealing with extraordinary situations, these are situations where we really need to make a quick decision, because this is about the welfare of the child. There can't be a situation here that someone is playing with us, for example. that Article. 577, 'cause the baby's well-being could be compromised here. That's why we assumed that the cassation complaint... And I'm also answering to the senator, by the way, why four months, not six months, well, it was originally two months. Because there's a speed of procedure, a professionalization of the procedure, and that's why we did it. Please note that in these regulations we very often introduce deadlines, a deadline for the first instance, a deadline for the second instance. Please note that there is a judgment but justification It's already official, you don't have to apply. This is about the speed of this procedure. After all, it is known that a good lawyer will use the fact that the child is in the country, that the proceedings take place for a long time, that he will submit any means of appeal, then he will extend it so that at some point the provisions of the Convention can be used, he will say that the child's welfare is at stake, e.g. It's about the child's psyche, and it's already gonna be unreasonable to release the child, to return to his country of origin. After all, such tricks are used in every way, and we know it very well. Yeah, that's what I'd say. Will this help us abroad? Yes, it will, Mr. Senator, because the abduction proceedings under the Hague Convention often relate later to caring matters. This will help us because it will lead to the professionalization of the settlement of these matters in our country. A lot of times, anyway... Not often... Sometimes even institutions such as Jugendamt may even make such cases. applications for children under the Hague Convention. It seems that this professionalization, which is this specialization, is that there will be 30 or a maximum of 40 judges, and not a few thousand hypothetically, is very important. It's also kind of an experiment. Because it's a professional, specialized judiciary... I mean, every court is professional, but this is a specialized court, specialized. This is not in Poland. So we're also trying to find out how specialized judges, trained at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office, can handle justice. Even as far as the prosecution is concerned, guidelines have been issued in this area and every such case is involved by the prosecutor. But the second step is precisely what I was talking about, Mr Senator, which is the Brussels II bis regulation, which is in the European, EU field, the pursuit of this kind of thing. Of course, this is not just an EU issue. It happens... there are countries with which, for example. We don't have any contracts, and that's when the drama begins. There are such cases, unfortunately there are situations in our resort, when the parents ask whether the mother is asking for help from the Ministry of Justice and I can only ask from the position of the person asking for the central authority to be graciously interested in the matter, because nothing ties us, there is no agreement between us. There are such situations and these are very drastic, very difficult situations. It's a cost-deductible issue. As far as cost relief is concerned, the senator was asking what would happen to such cases. I don't think there's going to be a situation where even if we're accepting a lawyer's coercion. A participant in the proceedings whether or not the applicant will act without duress. Why? The senator knows that better than anyone. There's no inhibitions here. Here you fight to the end, and if you fight to the end, all resources are used, and you do not expose yourself to the fact that the actions concerning this participant of the proceedings may be omitted because the participant was unrepresented or was not properly represented. I don't think that's gonna happen. But as far as I know, I think in the proceedings before the Supreme Court, I'd have to check it out. This is also the case... These are very special situations. I haven't heard there's a problem with the need for a lawyer, there's a lawyer's compulsion, and someone doesn't set up a lawyer because they don't think he can afford it. In these cases, costs are not a problem, as the senator knows perfectly well, of which the senator is well aware. But I imagine that in that case the actions would simply be omitted.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u230	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[I'd still like to ask.]] Of course. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u231	Minister, I also asked you this because I found the statement of a major specialist in the Ministry's Legislative Department, Judge Robert Kowalczuk, and he said this: "If the person involved in the proceedings, contrary to the wording of this provision, does not want to be represented by a lawyer, then her actions will not be taken into account... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Exactly...]] ...and further: The case will normally be recognised because there is a requirement for a lawyer to act. I mean, that kind of thing, 'cause it could happen. We have a situation where the court, as I say, is very conservative. I know that from experience. As regards the assignment of an official representative. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: But the Minister of Justice will decide, i.e. on this first level... because I don't know which level you're talking about, whether it's this preliminary level, or when in court... in court, right?]] If he's already in court, yes. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michael Wójcik: Okay.]] And what's our situation now? There's a lawyer's obligation. We don't have... Page e.g. She doesn't think she can afford it. There are also situations I've been dealing with that I've had two interventions. The situation was that mom was fined very high for every day she didn't give her child. She's a part of this. The Court of First Instance does not take this into account, but takes into account the state of the property which it puts forward in the application. She can't afford that attorney because it's a couple thousand zlotys. I'd like to know... Whether this happens or not, I don't know. I'd like to know what's gonna happen in this situation. Will it then be as it was said, that the matter would be recognized, but such a participant would be left out of the way? Because there's this solicitor's compulsion: you don't have an attorney. You do not have the right to vote, you cannot participate in the proceedings, although it concerns you, although you are a party to the proceedings, party to the proceedings. I'd like to know what's going on in this situation. This could happen, and that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u232	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, I'll say it again. I'm glad this line is consistent with Judge Kowalczuk's position. Such an action shall be omitted by the court in the resolution of the case in question. But that's not gonna happen, and I doubt that's gonna happen. I say again: in the interest of the party to the proceedings whether the applicant is It's to establish a proxy. That's one thing. Second, if he can't afford it... As I understand it, the senator is afraid... Well, the courts decide differently, and that's why... [[Yeah, because the courts...]] Yeah, I get it, I know it. That's why it's supposed to be 30 judges or 40 max. The point is, the case you're talking about... Because it happens in other countries that the mother who abducted the child has to pay powerful fines for every day And at some point, they're making giant money out of it. [[This may apply to Polish citizens.]] Yeah, that's right. There are countries that have such a system. Well, I really regret that these systems work, but they do. But the court will take this into account, it will be obliged to take into account that such a judgment has been issued in another country and that person must pay a very high fine. The court will take that into account. Please also note that the cost of public proceedings is rather low, because this is... I don't want to give you the amount not to mislead anyone, but it seems to be very low amounts. What we insist on is the professionalization of the court in this area, the people who will rule. They know perfectly well that these are sensitive matters, that there are different systems and that there may be people that the senator was talking about. There may also be people who hypothetically They're just gonna want the court to admit it, and the court won't want... Besides, you can appeal. Remember, too, that such a provision can be appealed against. It's not like someone's gonna decide, and it stays once and for all. But, as I say, I don't think this is gonna happen. I say again: we place emphasis on the professionalisation of judges in this area, so that they are particularly trained and investigate such situations. But I don't think that's gonna happen. This 22-month practice of mine indicates And every such thing in Poland goes through my hands That's not gonna happen. I don't think she is. And even if it was, there's a safety valve. You can appeal. The first safety valve is the professionalisation of judges, the second is the fact that the prosecutor is involved, who is a public-interest advocate, and the third is that you can appeal. So I don't think that's gonna happen. [[This is the last time. May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u234	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u235	Conclusion. So, in a situation where the court does not grant an attorney of office to a person who feels wronged, a participant in the proceedings who is fighting for his child... In the context of the solicitor's coercion, the situation is as follows: if you don't have a proxy, then you can't take part...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u236	Activities will not be taken into account... [[...as a participant in the proceedings. Acting like that...]] Yes, but I do not think that in practice this situation has ever happened, which I would like to emphasise once again very strongly. [[Well, I deeply believe what the Minister is saying, and I hope so much, but the recipe says it's still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u237	Good. Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Minister, thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Thank you very much, Marshal and honourable Members. I'm counting on the support of this post-political project. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the Senators did not make legislative proposals in the discussion, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm asking Senator Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u238	Thank you very much, Marshal. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Legislative Commission on the examination of applications submitted at the fiftieth Senate meeting of the Act on the execution of certain activities of the Central Authority in the field of legal trade in family matters under European Union law and international agreements will take place on 18 January at 8.30 a.m. in room 179. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the fiftieth Senate meeting to the 2018 Budget Act will be held today at 20:00 in room 217. Wait a minute. One more announcement. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of proposals for the Act on Electromobility and Alternative Fuels will take place tomorrow at 8.45 in room 176. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much...]] Wait a minute. Excuse me. There's another announcement. I kindly inform you of the 60th meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, to be held on 18 January at 12.10 in room 179. Order of business: opinion of the committee on the formal correctness of Senator Maciej Grubski's statement of 16 January 2018 on the acceptance of criminal liability for the actions referred to in the application of the Head of the Łódź Department of the Local Department for Organised Crime and Corruption of the National Public Prosecutor's Office in Łódź of 20 December 2017, submitted via the Deputy Prosecutor General to the Senate Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-17-senat-54-1.u239	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 18 minutes 53]]
