ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let's resume the session. Mr. Senator Secretary, please take your seats at the president's table. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to keep your conversations quiet. We proceed to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation im. Wenceslas Felczak. The text of the Act is contained in print No 729 and the Commission's reports In print Nos 729 A and 729 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to be the rapporteur of the Polish Senate's Committee on Culture and Media, which discussed the draft law on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak. The meeting took place on 13 February. We propose that the High Senate approve the attached draft resolution. Of course, I can inform you that our Legislative Office has tabled 8 proposals for amendments that we have tabled in one block. They've been voted out. These amendments are introduced by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There's also one amendment that's here... There is an additional amendment whereby the capital city of Warsaw is replaced by the capital city of Tarnów. If I can explain in a few words And then, of course, we're gonna talk, we're gonna debate about the bill, and I'm gonna say that the president of Tarnow's town, Mr. Roman Czepiela... [[...Tarnowa.]] I said Tarnowa. If I said "Krakow," I repeat: "Tarnowa." [[Not Krakow...]] [[Voice from the hall: I thought Krakow...]] [[You said Tarnowa.]] I said Tarnowa. Thank you very much. Mr. President of the city of Krakow... of the city of Tarnow... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[This beautiful city.]] [[Come on, come on.]] Mr. President of the city of Krakow presented the project... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Again.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Tarnowa, Mr President.]] Colleagues from the city of Tarnów, who are now watching me and this picture of the palace, now the palace of vows, which your president for your knowledge has assigned to the seat of the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation, justifying this relationship, which Tarnów has had with Hungary for centuries... I'm not talking about Józef Bem's character anymore, but I'm talking about being a Hungarian king for a while. Tarnów was the capital of Hungary, because if there was a king... It is understandable that the capital was where the king was. Historians may correct me, but I am based on documents. Of course, the Minister was responsible for arguing that the institute should be located in Warsaw, but by President Ryszka an amendment was tabled to introduce it into the bill, and the committee recommends that this amendment be adopted. I will, of course, take part, Mr Marshal, in the debate on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. All I have to say is that we believe that this is the creation of a new institution, which essentially duplicates the existing institution. These words fell in the debate from the mouth of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. We got the Minister's answer that it wasn't like that. Nevertheless, I don't really want to agree with that. But if we had... if I were to support this bill, it would only be when the High Senate decided that the Institute would be the city of Tarnów. I'll answer your questions, of course, and for now, if you'll excuse me, I'll end my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u3	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Alicia Zając, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union a report on the procedure of the committee on the Polish-Hungarian Cooperation Institute Act. Wenceslas Felczak. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union adopted, by a majority, the proposed draft Law No 729 B. The discussion also raised the matter of the Institute's headquarters in Tarnów. We have received information from Minister Paweł Szrot present at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee that it is possible to locate a branch of this institute in a city other than Warsaw. During the discussions with the Hungarian party, this was not the case, and the Minister was against it in order to change the location of the Institute from Warsaw to Tarnów at this stage, but did not rule out the possibility of a branch or branch of the Institute in Tarnów, which in fact has huge links, long-term and multigenerational contacts with Hungary, which connects sympathy with Hungary. Please, the High House... Oh, of course there were nine amendments that were tabled by Senator Jan Dobrzyński. The amendments were accepted by the committee, as were the entire draft law. Therefore, I ask the High House to support this draft resolution, i.e. to adopt the Act on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u5	Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Michał Dworczyk, was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government... [[Voice from the room: But we have questions.]] [[We have questions for the rapporteur.]] Excuse me, let's get back to the questions. At present, senators may submit questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs from a place lasting no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Klich came in first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u6	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether a request was also being considered to set up similar institutes together with our friends, friendly countries, i.e. Polish-Estonian, Polish-Latvian, Polish-Lithuanian, Polish-Ukrainian, Polish-Slovak, Polish-Czech, Polish-German, Polish-American, which would be extremely important today, Polish-Israeli, he would also be very important today, Polish-French and Polish-British. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u7	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u8	Mr. Senator, the committee wasn't on this case. I understand the way you think. I must tell you to the senator and the High House that I asked the Minister from the Prime Minister's office whether there is already an institute in Poland, which kind of links the function of the Polish Institute and the Institute of another country. The answer is obvious, because this is, let's call it, the institute is the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding. It was supposedly established in 2010. I had the privilege of doing the work of the subcommittee that prepared this bill. However, the centre of Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement was intended to rebuild Polish-Russian relations and clarify historical events. So there is only one institute that has this form, but there was no discussion about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u9	Thank you. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have the following question. In the course of the debate at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, I asked the Minister present at our meeting whether the government supports the proposal to amend the seat of the institution in Tarnów. The Minister said that the government did not support this. Could you quote the senator? Minister's arguments? Why did the government vote against such a solution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u12	Thank you very much. There's a minister in the courtroom, and it would be best if he quoted it himself, but if the senator wanted it, then I'd say that those arguments were that the institute should be located in the capital, near the embassy, near the most important places, right in the center. In turn our logic, the logic of our thinking, is that we I and most of the senators of the Civic Platform believe that this is an artificial creation, and the only way to save him would be for him to be in Tarnów. In fact, during the debate we said that this is due to the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Greater emphasis should be placed on regions and smaller cities. Such solutions are very common in Europe.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u13	Senator Jackowski is asking another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have another question: is it possible, in the light of this law, to place a branch of this institution in Tarnów? As you remember perfectly well, during the committee meeting President Tarnowa declared even the possibility for the city to lend a magnificent seat to such an institution if it were the head office, but he also emphasized that if a local branch were to be located there, then this institution could also benefit from this building. Is it possible to create a local branch in Tarnów, which since the 16th century has a special relationship with Hungary? Well, historically, no one has any doubts about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u15	I'll tell you, Senator... May I, Mr. Marshal? [[Yes, please.]] Let me put it this way: the Minister suggested that something such as a branch might exist, but I do not imagine that this palace next to the monument to Józef Bem and to those places that Tarnów ties to the Hungarian Republic could be dedicated to the branch of the institute, because then the rank of this palace would be smaller. I'll tell you, the institute has a very high budget. This budget was confirmed by the Minister in the interview. It is estimated at more than PLN 6 million. Well, that's about $6 million. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Maximum 6 million.]] A maximum of 6 million, yes. This budget is higher than the budget of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding. It seems to me that if the branches of other countries were to do so, our friends would be able to appeal for such institutes. It's... My philosophy is this. I think it would be good to set up an institute for Polish-Lithuanian cooperation, which would be more beneficial for mutual relations. But it's the government's will. The Senate, Parliament will decide what the fate of this bill will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u16	Are there any further questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? No questions. Thank you, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. Mr Michał Dworczyk, Head of the Office of the Prime Minister, was authorised to present the position of the government. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have Mr Paweł Szrot, Secretary of State, Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I would like to refer once again to these most important issues, because they are presented here actually again. And in the Seym, and in the debates in the Senate committees, the same comments, the same demands were made. When it comes to the emergence of other institutions... Senator Klich spoke about Polish-Estonian, Polish-Lithuanian, Polish-American Do you...? [[Polish-Ukrainian...]] Ukrainian, too... [[...Polish-French.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've already explained this. [[...Polish-German, Polish-Lithuanian...]] [[Mr. Senator, we've heard this statement.]] [[I remind you because not everyone remembers.]] [[It's okay. The Minister remembers. Please, Minister, continue.]] Mr Senator, if this request arises in bilateral discussions with the representatives of your countries, we will begin to discuss it. This request appeared in the contacts of representatives of the government of the Republic of Poland and Hungary and at this moment is implemented, in a symmetrical manner, as a result of a bilateral agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the seat in Tarnów. Yes, the Committee on Culture and Media hosted President Tarnow. Mr President presented the beautiful and glorious history of Tarnow's contribution and its inhabitants to the Polish-Hungarian relationship and friendship. Those things that you said the president was indisputable. They are commendable in every form, but I could not support this amendment and I cannot. Unfortunately, this is the logic of the functionality of public institutions. Unfortunately, I'm very sorry about that, because I come from a smaller facility myself. I'm from Bialystok. I'm still very close to Bialystok. But it must be said that the establishment of a central institution in an out-of-town city is rather unique. And we have many examples of this. What President Tarnow was talking about, and what he was talking about, Tarnow's accomplishments in the context of the tradition of Polish-Hungarian friendship, it is of course necessary to use, that should be used. The management of the newly established institute must bear this in mind. There have been numerous talks here about the possibility of creating a branch of the institute. Yes, there is a possibility, as it seems, in the article. 3 (1) (a) 4. But that's just one possibility. After all, the institute will operate in different forms In the form of scientific conferences, meetings, seminars and other events. And here is a chance for Tarnow to engage in activities promoting friendship and Polish-Hungarian cooperation. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that's it. Thank you very much, and I would like to ask you to accept the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u18	Thank you, Minister. Please remain with the speaker for a moment, because now the senators can report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jackowski was the first person to come forward with a question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Would you like to tell the High House whether this law of ours is in some sense a symmetrical law, i.e. will the Hungarian side also set up or have already set up such an institution? Does not specify intergovernmental arrangements, inter alia. that the seat of these institutions will be the capitals of both countries, which seems natural in this kind of state action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u20	Mr. Senator, I can only confirm what I said at the Senate committee meeting. Of course, 2 symmetrical institutions are created, on the Polish side and on the Hungarian side. As far as I know, the process of creating this symmetrical Hungarian institution is already complete, unless it has already been finalised. And yes, I can also confirm that the basic assumption that your reporting senator said this was that these two institutions should operate in the capitals of the countries, close to diplomatic offices, where it is possible to communicate easily at the level of ambassadors. And it was obvious to everyone during the conversations. Well, I say this with all due respect to Tarnow and his achievements for Polish-Hungarian cooperation and friendship, Mr. Senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u21	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u22	I would like to know, Minister, what the future of the Hungarian Institute in Warsaw and the Polish Institute in Budapest will look like. As for the activities of the first one, I have a little less knowledge, but for years, or at least since 1998, I have been observing the activities of the Polish Institute in Budapest, which does fantastic things, really fantastic things. That's, among other things. The famous exhibition of Polish art presented in Hungary, which aroused the enormous interest of Hungarian audience. At the end of the 1990s, it was a really great cultural event in Hungary. Then there were other things that this institute did. Does this solution mean that you want to close as well as the Hungarian Institute in Warsaw, and especially the Polish Institute in Budapest? Because I don't think you want to multiply the institution, do the third and fourth institutions dealing with the same thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u23	Mr. Senator, I've already explained this in committee. The Polish Institute in Budapest and the Hungarian Institute in Warsaw have tasks other than the tasks of these 2 institutions, which will be created, i.e. the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation im. Wenceslas Felczak and this Hungarian institute. The Polish Institute in Budapest promotes Polish culture and Poland itself as such in Hungary, and the Hungarian Institute promotes Hungarian culture and the Hungarian state in Poland. Well, these are their basic tasks. Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation Wacława Felczak will operate in Poland, promote friendship, cooperation, cultural exchange, exchange of ideas in Poland, just as a symmetrical Hungarian institution will promote the same values in Hungary. And both the institute im. Felczak will work closely with the Hungarian Institute here After all, it is a Hungarian institution in Poland. As well as this Hungarian institution will cooperate with the Polish Institute in Budapest. [[It's the same thing.]] Not the same, ladies and gentlemen. [[Isn't it the same?]] Not the same, because the institute them. Wenceslas Felczak is a Polish institution operating in Poland I say this with all due respect to the Hungarian Institute. And with all due respect to the Polish Institute in Budapest, which I confirm, Mr. Senator is doing a great job for Poland in Budapest, and now he will be able to benefit from cooperation with an institution acting on the Hungarian side. [[Do you understand?]] [[I don't understand.]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[The money's there, that's all right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u24	You're asking Senator Napieralski a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, at first I would like to point out that I was born in Szczecin, not in Warsaw, and my constituency is the Western Pomerania, consisting mostly of small towns. Explain to me how you are reluctant to transfer outside Warsaw an institution such as this one. Why do you think it's against logic? I remind you that you represent the Government of Law and Justice, and if I remember correctly, the policy doctrine of the PiS is that we have a country to balance and take care of small towns as well. So why is this Tarnów, according to your logic? 'Cause that's what intrigued me the most. Is it out?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u26	Mr. Senator... Mr. Marshal, may I? Mr. Senator, I'll answer your question. I would very much like to see the headquarters of such an institute in a smaller village, and in this case Tarnów has many reasons. But I do not want to lead to another situation where the central institution is based in an out-of-town city and has a branch, a long-distance branch, in Warsaw, and this branch employs slightly more people than this office in a voivodeship city, so commuting of various employees, including management, generate such costs that it should be properly considered whether this should be changed. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u27	You're asking Senator Chudowska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, is it known who will be named after the Hungarian-Polish Institute in Budapest or not yet?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u29	I'm sorry, but I can't say that right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u30	You're asking Senator Ryszka a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u31	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. I assume that the idea of a seat in Tarnów will be rejected. Couldn't an amendment be made to have a branch of the institute in Tarnów? It's about writing it down in the bill. Would you agree to something like that? [[Please fold.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u32	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u33	Mr. Senator, I am convinced that if there are long-distance branches of the Institute, Tarnów will certainly be considered first, but it is not lawful to legally impose neither the leadership of the future Institute nor the Prime Minister, who will make the final decision on this matter, such restrictions. I repeat: I am convinced that Tarnów will surely be at the top of the stake after what has been said many times here about his traditions... [[Minister, will only Tarnów be considered, or...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Allow the Minister to respond.]] That's it, Mr. Senator. That's all I can say.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u34	Thank you. You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u35	Minister... Something doesn't turn on here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, but someone's... Oh, here we go. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you've already said that. It all happened at the committee meeting. Your arguments are acceptable, but I'm not very connected with what Senator Napieralski said. Imagine what the headquarters of such an institute can be for the city in the south of Poland. I don't want to repeat myself. I'm showing here pictures of Tarnow and the place next to Bem's monument. Notice that such an institute will disappear completely in Warsaw among a huge number of different kinds of institutes and companies. And there it would be the most important institution in the city. Question. Tell me how many employees will be hiring the institute. I don't remember if it's in the bill. Imagine if such an institute with its program were in Tarnów, it would have affected... There would be employed citizens of the city. There's a Jagiellonian University nearby. The Hungarian Consulate is located in Krakow. Well, we're still following the exposé of your boss, the Prime Minister of Morawiecki, who said to bet on the sustainable development of the regions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u36	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u37	Mr Senator, I can say clearly that the assessment of the impact of the regulation on the project we are discussing today involves the employment of about 6 employees together with a directorship. That's the scale. [[There'll be six employees and you'll argue about your headquarters?]] Mr. Senator, it's hard to argue with your arguments. I repeat that I appreciate the Tarnów and I would very much like to contribute to the development of this city. I can say what I said at the committee meeting again. If on one scale we place Tarnow's great role in the development of Polish-Hungarian friendship, and on the other we put functional, practical considerations, unfortunately the balance will prevail with functional and practical considerations. Mr. Senator, once again, I ask you to accept these explanations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u38	You're asking Senator Napieralski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! In my opinion, neither balance nor balance will be overwhelmed. I do not know if you know that in many European countries, including in the world, various very important institutions run by the state are transferred outside the capitals and it works well. And no one's complaining about the cost of getting somewhere. There's no problem at all. I also do not know if the Minister knows that e.g. The Hungarian government, precisely Prime Minister Orban, funded the monument and had no problem placing it in Szczecin, because Szczecin in difficult times for Hungarians simply deserved it as a city. And Hungarians appreciated it. If that's the case... And in e-mails or in official letters from the councillors, from the authorities of the city of Tarnow, we received 15 points describing exactly what this work is like, this history of Tarnow's cooperation with Hungary. I can't figure out what this stubbornness is. You can do anything. Please do not talk about any economic considerations, because today, in the age of digitalization, when you can function on the basis of emails, about phones, it is all really to be dealt with. Why are you so stubborn about this Tarn guy just rejecting him, even though he's historically in on it? I'm not talking about whether this bill is legitimate or not, I'm talking about the fact that it's historically part of it. Answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u40	Mr. Senator, you were talking about great things about Szczecin. Hello and glory to the scaffolds, who are also friends of the Hungarians. As I understand, the next in line to organize events of the institute and promote Polish-Hungarian cooperation will become Szczecin. Mr. Senator, I repeat, I am not the enemy of smaller centers. On the contrary, I've talked about this before. To answer your question, I was talking about these functional considerations. That's one thing. And secondly, there is also the question of this symmetry towards the Hungarian side. Well, these two institutes need to work together. And the one in Budapest, and the one in Warsaw Nothing will ensure efficient and functional cooperation like the mediation of these two institutions. Mr. Senator, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u41	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a simple, short question. In transitional provisions, specifically in Article. 36, refers to the three-month time limit for the establishment of the International Council of the Institute and the Council of the Institute of the first term of office. And why hasn't the deadline been set? I think he should be shorter than the appointment of a director of the institute? Well, he's gonna deal with organizational issues, so he should be called first. Why isn't there a deadline in the transitional provisions?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u43	Mr. Senator, I don't think that's really a problem. Despite the ironic comments made by the opposition senators, the director of the Institute will probably be appointed quickly enough to oversee these issues concerning the appointment and international council of the Institute, and the board of the Institute. [[Can we have a name, please?]] [[Blackhead.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u44	You're asking Senator Kobiak a question. Ask me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u45	I'm trying, but... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: What about the card?]] Here's the card. [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: I can hear you.]] Something's broken here. Oh, that's better. I'm very sorry for the delay. [[Two geriatrics...]] In the first sentence, I would like to say that I absolutely support Tarnow's candidacy for the Institute's headquarters, but I would also like to ask you one thing. If I understand correctly, you said in your speech that the bill cannot state that the branch will be in Tarnów. On what grounds do you say that?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u46	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u47	Mr. Senator, I didn't say that. I said it shouldn't be written down. That would limit the sovereignty of the President of the Council of Ministers' decisions, because he makes those decisions. It shouldn't be written down. [[You're restricting the Senate's sovereignty by saying the Senate can't write it down in the bill.]] [[These are specific tasks of the President of the Council of Ministers.]] I am as far away from restricting the sovereignty of the higher chamber of parliament as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u48	The question you're asking is Senator Hare. Please. [[They're on the move. They'll be discussing it by morning.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u49	Thank you very much. During these conversations with the Hungarian side I don't know when they started and how long they lasted. Have other locations of the institute been raised? Because this is a government initiative, an initiative of the Polish side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u50	Mr. Marshal! Senator! Well, they lasted a few months. That's what I know. But never, at any stage, was any other location considered. Everyone has accepted that this is clear and does not require discussion. Well, the assumption was always that these institutions Hungarian and Polish They will operate in the capitals. Senator, thank you. [[May I add some more, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u51	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u52	Thank you very much. Minister, the point is that one and the other government, i.e. Polish and Hungarian, is negotiating on this issue. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Yes.]] But where do you find out... How can Tarnów, Rzeszów, Szczecin, Białystok gain this knowledge that such conversations are conducted and that it is possible to apply for the seat of a public institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u54	Well, ladies and gentlemen, Tarnów has submitted his candidacy at the stage of parliamentary work. She was even left in some way... [[They found out from the MPs.]] ...recommended here. And that will also be possible in the case of the organization of possible local troops, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u55	You're asking Senator Klich a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u56	Minister, with all due respect to you personally, but if the government intends to leave you, and rightly so. The Polish Institute in Budapest, and the Hungarian Hungarian Institute in Warsaw, is the appointment of these institutions, the twins, because you have not presented to me the differences between the Polish-Hungarian Institute in Warsaw and the Hungarian-Polish Institute in Budapest, is the biggest absurdity I have at least heard about in this House since the beginning of this term. The only realization of this absurdity, i.e. the abolition of this absurdity, is that it arises outside of Warsaw, that it is based on the existing acquis, which is the 7-Gold Panorama in Tarnów, the infrastructure prepared by the city of Tarnów, the fantastic museum of Bem. You were probably there, and you probably saw it. I have been there many times, and I have seen how these crops develop. It is also based on the fact that at the moment it is easy to reach any other city in Poland thanks to the motorway that allows you to reach Krakow in 35 minutes, and from Krakow to all other places in Poland, or to go directly from Tarnow to the north or south. So just answer the question: why not realize the absurdity you're proposing?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u57	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u58	Mr. Senator, I've actually answered that question, but I can do it again. Both institutes, Hungarian in Warsaw and Polish in Budapest, have a different scope of action, and in fact also another territorial property. That's very crucial, too. And as for the realization you're talking about... Well, I can a contrario assume that in the opinion of Senator Warsaw there is no accomplishment in creating and cultivating Polish-Hungarian friendships and traditions of Polish-Hungarian cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just remind you that the events of October 1956, which were kind of the beginning of the anti-communist Hungarian revolution, actually Nothing without taking Poznan's advice had a start in Warsaw. It was June. But I repeat, this is a transfer of the Institute's headquarters. With all due respect to Tarnów, many issues that are already fixed at the level of interstate negotiations would be affected and would impede the functioning of this institution as a government institution, as a state institution. Dear Senator, gentlemen of the Senators, I can still give the same answer repeatedly. I'm asking you for more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u59	You're asking Senator Fedorovich a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u60	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Minister, don't be surprised that as an opposition, we joke from time to time. Because there was one of the ministers here who, when I asked him if he was going to be head of the media council, said it wasn't a topic and he stayed. Yeah, well, I don't... [[Put on the theater.]] But that's not the point. I just wanted to make a little excuse for us. Minister, 6 million zlotys are big money, very big money for 6 people. I'm aware of the goals, but could you at least say a few words... When I was running the theater, 130 people worked for $3 million, $500,000, and then $4 million, $200,000. Are these huge costs... That's a lot of money. Whether it's counted, what it's going to be spent on in a situation where our institutions are limping into similar matters, art or science, or libraries... 6 million zlotys, my God... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u61	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u62	Mr. Senator, I just want to highlight a few things. First of all, this is the maximum amount, the limit is set at a maximum of PLN 6 million. I remember what the senators said at the committee meeting that if the maximum limit is set in this way, it will certainly reach the maximum. Let's wait and see. The limit on the financing of this institute is set at a lower, significantly lower level than the limit on finances for the operation of other similar institutes, such as the Eastern Studies Centre or the Western Institute. About what that money's gonna be spent on... Mr. Senator, you have read here the scope of the action: financing and funding of projects for Polish-Hungarian cooperation, funding of scholarships, there is such a special quasi- Scholarship Fund... This money will go to social institutions, go to social organizations, eventually go to citizens who will carry out specific projects for activities falling within the scope of the Institute's tasks. It's not gonna be... [[Just a question. I don't know if... sorry.]] [[Voice from the room: Unrejectable...]] [[Voice from the room: What's he supposed to say on TV?]] [[Put on the theater.]] [[Polish-Hungarian Theatre.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u63	The senator wants to add another question... [[Voice from the room: Ask small, if such a word exists at all.]] Then make it short.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u64	Minister, there is no specific salary for the director of this institution. I hope she'll be comparable to a senator's salary or a Member's. Well, I don't know if it's specified, but it's not in the bill. Who's gonna call it?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u65	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u66	Mr. Senator, head of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. [[I see. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u67	You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. The committee accepted the amendments suggested by the Legislative Bureau. Does the government sustain these amendments or not? I would like a clear declaration from the Minister in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u69	Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Marshal, may I? [[Yes, please.]] Dear Senator, we have re-examined these amendments and the analysis made by our lawyers resulted in the fact that they do not have any fundamental... I'd like to ask you to accept the bill without any amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u70	You're asking Senator Bonisławski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am returning to this topic again, because following the logic of the Minister, I would like to ask if the headquarters were in Tarnów, which, I see, has the highest ratings here, and the branch was established in Warsaw, whatever would be... 'Cause then the reception desk, and so on. would be in Warsaw, and the splendor of centuries-old contacts with Hungary would remain at Tarnów. Well, let's do that, let's have the squad here and, let's say, he's gonna do the functions you were talking about, and there's... After all, there are educated, intelligent people out there who can handle running a center like this.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u72	That's the question. Or a proposal, Mr. Senator? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: I can answer.]] [[Well, a question and a proposition.]] Question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u73	Mr. Senator, maybe it's a little clumsy, but I'll try to answer the question with the question: and where will the director of the institute be in the branch or in the headquarters in Tarnów? [[Talking in the O.R.]] If he's in the branch, I understand he's going to Tarnow every week to sign accounting papers. Yes, Senator? And if he stays at his headquarters in Tarnów, he will come to Warsaw every week for meetings with the cultural attaché of the Hungarian Embassy and representatives of the Hungarian Institute. Yes? That's my rhetorical question to answer yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u74	You're asking Senator Blackbay a question. [[I've already given up. I already know everything.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're asking Senator Rybicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u75	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, it is said that Tarnów would be the ideal place for the Institute's headquarters. I agree with that opinion. But in the course of government work was another location taken into account, outside Warsaw, e.g. Katowice? In 2014, the Senate adopted a resolution commemorating the death of Henryk Slavik and József Antall, 2 national heroes of Poland and Hungary who gave their lives, saving refugees, including Jewish refugees from Poland. In 2015, a monument commemorating both of these heroes was unveiled in Katowice, in the presence of the presidents of the Republic of Poland and Hungary. The main square in Katowice was later named after these heroes. Did Katowice as a place of frequent celebrations of Polish-Hungarian days, as a place of birth and activity of the Silesian insurgent, Henryk Sławik, were taken into account This is such a place as to support this cooperation. As a very serious candidate when it comes to the headquarters of this institute?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u76	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u77	Dear Senator, I repeat: honor and glory to the Silesians, inhabitants of Katowice Hungary's friends. Senator, I take this vote as another request to the management of the new institution to celebrate and exploit this potential, this contribution that Katowice has made, I would say, in creating Polish-Hungarian friendship, organizing these conferences, these events there. [[Just for the record, I'm from Tricity, not Katowice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u78	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u79	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You bothered me when you said you wanted this bill to pass without amendment. Most of these amendments are editorial, complementary to the text, but one of them, namely Amendment 3, complements a certain gap in the text. In the text, among others. it is specified that the President of the Council of Ministers may revoke a member of the Board of the Institute, may appoint a member in the case of a vacancy, i.e. during his term of office. There is even a transitional provision that states that the President of the Council of Ministers shall appoint a Council of Ministers within three months. But there is no basic provision, a mere material provision, namely that it is the President of the Council of Ministers who appoints the Council of the Institute. So there is a rule that the council is called, but there is no question of who. One of these amendments, just number 3, this gap, is a clear oversight. The question is whether this should not be considered and at least one amendment should be retained so that we can then vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u80	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u81	Senator, I repeat once again that we have examined these amendments. Our legal department has decided that this amendment is not essential either. This can be clarified at the level of the implementing rules provided for by the Act under review today. Thank you, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u82	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Mr. Senator Chelya. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister, wouldn't it be appropriate, if we wanted to locate the headquarters of this institute outside Warsaw, to prepare this at an earlier stage? Could such a change at the moment give the Hungarian side the impression of depreciating the importance of this institute in Poland and changing the location of the parallel institute, on the Hungarian side? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u84	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u85	Mr. Senator, what can I say to these questions? Absolutely, you're absolutely right.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u86	Thank you. I don't see any further reports. I'm opening a discussion... [[I was...]] Question, Senator? [[I just wanted to say that I volunteered to ask questions, and I was listed on the list by Senator Wszystko. I volunteered, but I'm giving up that question. Thank you.]] Thank you. Excuse me, Senator, but that name was crossed out here, in a hurry, I think. But you can ask a question. [[No...]] You're resigning? [[I'm quitting.]] Thank you very much. So we finish a series of questions. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. He was the first person to discuss... [[...Senator Czesław Ryszka.]] ...Senator Czesław Ryszka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u87	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! In Europe there is no other country like Hungary, a country with which Poland would live in a 1000-year friendship. Of course, history had its meansders for centuries, but Poles always lived in the belief that they could count on the Hungarian brothers, and each other. I even dare say that I don't know a Pole who would say that he doesn't like Hungarians or that he wasn't in Hungary or that he has any reservations about Hungarians at all. I'm abstracting right now from people who, for example, are. They don't like Prime Minister Orban. Without going into history, it should be said that our nations were united by military alliances and personal union, we were united by kings and common heroes, e.g. Louis Hungarian, St. Queen Jadwiga, Stefan Batory, Józef Bem or recently Pál Teleki, Prime Minister, who refused Hitler in 1939 to participate in the aggression against Poland. In 1939 the Hungarians helped Poles fleeing from the German and Soviet aggressor to the west to continue the fight, e.g. Admiral Horth personally helped General Kazimierz Sosnkowski to cross west. After the war, and precisely in 1948, the patron saint of the emerging institute, Wacław Felczak, helped Prime Minister Stanisław Mikołajczyk escape from Poland after the election faked by Communists. He saved Mikołajczyk's life, and himself, tortured in an investigation, was sentenced to life imprisonment. He was released after eight years, in 1956. The Poles were the only people in the Soviet bloc who supported the Hungarian Revolution in 1956, which broke out briefly, and I will remind you, after Poznań's June 1956. Mostly Poles gave blood to thousands of Hungarians wounded by the bullets of Soviet invaders. Then neither we nor the Hungarians succeeded in defeating the communists, but our victim was not in vain. In 1989, starting with Poland, liberation came for all countries of Central and Eastern Europe. There is no doubt that the 1000-year-old Polish-Hungarian friendship should have a wide institutional base, so the establishment of a new Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation and at the same time the honoring of Professor Wacław Felczak will be an important element of its strengthening. In the years 1940-1945 he was a courier of the government of the Republic of Poland on exile and established an appropriate institution in Budapest, which became one of the most important stages of this courier route. It can be said that Hungary has become its second homeland. He is the author of e.g. the fundamental history of Hungary. The established institute of the name Wacław Felczak is to deal with activities in the social, scientific, information, economic and economic fields. In general, in the area of culture, sport, education. The Institute's tasks will include: communicating the importance of Polish-Hungarian tradition to young generations, supporting scientific cooperation, initiatives and scientific and educational projects aimed at mutual understanding of the language, culture, history, and politics of both countries. In addition, the Institute will analyse the political, social, economic changes in Europe affecting the security and development of both the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Hungary. In general, the establishment of the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak will certainly contribute to strengthening the importance of the Polish-Hungarian tradition, and more simply to strengthen the cooperation of our nations. It should be noted that this institute has the highest rank, because it will be directly subject to the Prime Minister, with us the Prime Minister of Poland and in Hungary the Prime Minister of Hungary. The twin institution was also established in Hungary. Namely, in November of last year, the National Assembly, the Hungarian Parliament, adopted an appropriate resolution, writing in the explanatory memorandum, a very beautiful explanatory statement. The friendship with Poland and the Polish nation is an inseparable part of Hungarian national identity and Hungarian culture. In accordance with the national creed contained in the Constitution of Hungary in the framework of the protection of our heritage, language, culture and values of the Karpackian Basin, paying tribute to Professor Wacław Felczak, the legendary Apostle of Polish-Hungarian friendship, the hero of the resistance movement against fascism and communism, in order to pass on the Hungarian-Polish friendship tradition from generation to generation, the National Assembly is adopting the following legal resolution. The National Assembly calls on the government to establish the Foundation. Wenceslas Felczak. This Hungarian foundation them. Wacława Felczak will most likely start his activity in March this year. In connection with our Act on the Establishment of the Institute, I would like to draw attention to what has been discussed so strongly here, namely the issue of the Institute's seat. Well, the Hungarians actually put this place in Budapest, in their capital. But does this oblige us to do so, as has already been asked here, that the institute should be in Warsaw? Everyone here in the questions, at the same time as in the justifications, confirms that the activity is important, not where the officials are located. Also present during the Committee on Culture and Media, the president of Tarnów said that Tarnów is the most Hungarian city in Poland, with a centuries-old tradition of cooperation between our countries and nations. As already mentioned, President Tarnova persuaded the committee to support the amendment indicating Tarnów. The Commission supported this amendment. Let me just add that President Tarnowa mentioned 21 reasons why the seat of the Polish-Hungarian cooperation institute should be placed in Tarnów, i.e. on the former so-called. the Hungarian route, which contributed to the city's flourishing. Of course, I will not mention these reasons, it would take at least half an hour, but most of these reasons have historical roots and in the present. As for the contemporary ones, it is worth mentioning the fact that it was in Tarnów that in 1956 the first company was formed, which in its name accepted the record of the company of Hungarian friends. Not the company of Polish-Hungarian friendship, which was created many times in the times of the Polish-Hungarian People's Republic. And it was in Tarnów in 1985 that the monument of General Bem was unveiled at Wałowa Street. But what may be the most important and what was also emphasized here is that the city of Tarnów promises a far-reaching help in the creation and activities of the institute, among others. He's offering a beautiful palace to his seat. These are just a few arguments to support the initiative of the city of Tarnow, through which the shortest road from Poland to Hungary runs. And when Via Carpatia comes from Tarnów to Budapest, it's gonna be a stone's throw... well, maybe not a stone, but literally a glance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u88	Thank you, Senator. Senator Chudowska has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is the last moment. I'll even say pathetic: historical moment To establish such an institution in Poland. At the beginning, I would like to emphasise once again what the Minister has already said, i.e. who it is addressed to and why there is a plan to set up this institution. The aim of the Institute is to deepen Polish-Hungarian friendship and cooperation, but its main tasks are to convey the importance of the Polish-Hungarian tradition to young generations and to strengthen cooperation and establish contacts between representatives of the young generation, especially in the field of culture and sport. We all realize that if the participants of the Budapest, Poznań and the famous 1956 revolution were only 18 years old or 18 years old, today they are eighty-year-olds, and many of those who were older Our grandparents, our parents There is no longer a world. This is the last moment that Senator Ryszka, Polish-Hungarian history, and the newest one, but also the one from 1,000 years ago, spoke about just now. Common important historical events, common royal families, common heroes... We need to talk about this to young people now, and that is of course what some resources are needed for. There's a reason why it's famous to say: "Polak, Hungary, two nephews, and to the sword, and to the glass." This friendship has been strengthening for centuries. Even if you choose to be the patron of the Professor, already a sacred memory, Wacław Felczak, the author of Hungarian history, cruelly persecuted in Czech prisons and in Polish prisons, sentenced to death... He died in 1993 in such a way that I would say, even a beautiful and perhaps a dream day If you can imagine the date of death for such a man as was Professor Wacław Felczak Because he died on October 23, 1993, a day commemorating the Hungarian Revolution. We're talking a lot about headquarters, we're asking a lot of questions, but these questions are a little bit out of line, because in the article. 11 is expressly stated in point 10 that the tasks and responsibilities of the Institute's Director include the assessment of the establishment, transformation and decommissioning of the local branches of the Institute. So long-distance institutes can be established. And why start Warsaw instead of smaller towns? Dear Senators, let's see. When a young man comes from Poland for the first time in Hungary, what does he want to see first? Budapest. If Hungary wants to come to Poland, what does it want to see first? The capital city of Warsaw. It's simple and logical. Many have already indicated here that it should logically be Tarnów. I don't mind Tarnow. I even think that such a branch could be established in Tarnów in the future, but it should also be established in Krakow, because the second most popular city, and by Hungarians almost in parallel with Warsaw, is Krakow. In Krakow... [[Voice from the room: Wrocław.]] Wroclaw, too. Wroclaw, too. I will not mention Legnica, where there is also a fresh plaque of 1956 founded by the Hungarian government in tribute to the inhabitants of Legnica for the blood given in 1956. In the city of Legnica at that time, under Russian occupation, it was extremely difficult. The Ambassador has been to Legnica three times in recent years. There's a reason for that, too. In Krakow it is very necessary. There is still no place in Krakow where tours of young people from Hungary, who cannot afford expensive hotels... There is no youth hostel, there is no tourist house where she can sleep or live young Hungarian visitors visiting Krakow. There must be many such needs. I think that these branches of institutes will definitely rise. Cities can still... And Tarnów, and Cracow, and any other willing city that has the opportunity to create such an institution, will certainly come forward. Proof that this Polish-Hungarian friendship, these accents of cultural exchange, various events of a scientific, cultural nature... that all of this is symmetrically distributed, is even the Polish-Hungarian Friendship Day, which we have celebrated since 2007 under the Seym resolution on 23 March each year. This day is celebrated every time somewhere else, and not in the capitals. Last year we celebrated Polish-Hungarian Friendship Day in Piotrków Trybunalski. Piotrków Trybunalski was honoured with the presence of both presidents: the President of Hungary and the President of the Republic of Poland. 2 years ago this day was celebrated in Budapest, but 3 years ago In Katowice, also in the presence of both presidents, then President Komorowski. This year it will take place in a small town on Lake Balaton. So all those who work in institutions, foundations, associations aimed at promoting Polish-Hungarian friendship know that these accents need to be distributed in different places. And that's what they do. Therefore, Senators, we should adopt this law as soon as possible so that we can start work so that all that we know is not lost, but can be passed on to the young generation of Poles and Hungarians. On the occasion of my speech on Hungary I have the honour of being vice-president of the Polish-Hungarian Parliamentary Group I've also quoted the last verse of this... Because the Pole, Hungary, two nephews, this is the whole poem, the song. Both of them, both of them, let the Lord bless them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u90	Thank you, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am very pleased with this decision, with this law on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. I thank Senator Ryszka very much that he has extended these thoughts, reflections and information to us, because these questions, which were, were basically only about one thing, and yet the tasks of this institute and its role are extremely important. I have to say, from my family home, I've brought such a memory. 'Cause there's been a lot of talk out there. It's about 1956. Those were the years I grew up, shortly after these events, which is why all these things are extremely close to me. Of course, as Senator of Tarnów land, I am very close to the amendment adopted by the Committee on Culture, and I thank you for it. We know Tarnów has many qualities. A very important city, a very important region, more than 200 years old tradition of higher education, a beautiful Renaissance town hall and local self-government traditions. We also know about the important role of the Tarnowski family in our history, the oldest and later, as well as the Duke of Sanguszka. Moreover, the Diocese of Tarnów is now an important diocese of the Roman Catholic Church, with the largest number of vocations in the world. And thanks to these appointments priests provide both missionary work on all continents as well as pastoral work among Polish people, especially among this Polonia of the newest years. But also, what is worth emphasizing in the century of regaining independence, Tarnów is the first city to regain independence in 1918, by decision of the city council and the then president, giving himself to the national government. Of course, my emotions about Tarnów are not meaningless here either. Many research and implementation works related to my doctoral work were carried out in Tarnów Tamel and as president of Tarnowski's Scientific Society I am rooted in this city. With great attention I listened to all these inquisitive and repeated questions, because there are emotions in me about this city, its beautiful market, cathedral, but also other places such as the alley behind the cathedral. I must say that it is worth mentioning at least the most important elements here, not all the 21 that bind Tarnów to Hungary. First of all, the location of the city on the Hungarian route is important. We know that it was a long time ago. That contributed to Tarnov's bloom. Founder of Tarnow Spycimir Lelivita participated in the drafting of the Visegrad treaties as a representative of King Kaźmierz the Great. In 1528, Jan Amor Tarnowski gave the Hungarian king Jan Zápoly a half-year hospitality at his castle in Tarnów when he had to flee his country. Bálint Balassi, the most outstanding writer's individuality of the Hungarian Renaissance and the most outstanding lyric of the Old Hungarian day, stayed in the Podtarnów castle in Dębno, which stands until today and which was then owned by Ferenc Wesselini. Prince Janusz Ostrogski, Voivode of Volynsk and then chestlain of Cracow, the eldest son of Konstanty Wasyl and Zofia from Tarnowski, married the Hungarian woman Zuzanna Seredi. Their tombstone in Tarnów Cathedral is one of the most valuable monuments of the city. This huge monument is located in the presbytery. And of course the most famous fact: in 1794 in Tarnów was born Józef Zechariah Bem, the later national hero of Poland and Hungary. In 1876 a railway line was opened from Tarnów to Hungary, and in 1956, in Tarnów the first company was established, which took the name of the company of friends of Hungary and not, as has been the case before, Polish-Hungarian friendship. Tarnów also gave many blood, medicines and dressings to help Hungary. In 1985, on the street. The monument of General Bem was unveiled and in 2001. Tarnów received the Sekler Gate. Of course, there are many other elements. It was mentioned here about the 7 Grodzka Panorama, whose original fragments are in Tarnów, about the mural at the railway station, which reminds the inhabitants of the Tarnów region of the region of Tarnów of cooperation with Hungarian partners or about the Carpathian Courier Race. There are many detailed arguments to justify the location of Tarnów. I must say that as Senator of the Brightest Republic of Poland, I feel torn, because it is not so obvious that the headquarters in Warsaw do not have its healing. That's why the capital is the capital and has its prestige. This is where the government, the parliament, the president and the Hungarian embassy are. The symmetric institute is located in Budapest. That's why I feel torn. I am deeply rooted in Tarnów and wish Tarnov the best. I have put a lot of effort into the development of education, science, higher education and modern economy. As has been said here, it is either necessary to accept this amendment, or to consider that Tarnów will be a very important place on the map of the Institute's activities as its very important subsidiary. Whether we write it down in the bill or... I'm not in favour of the bill being too detailed. We have too many laws, there is overregulation, it causes stiffening, constant changes, we very often modify the same laws, and it would suffice to make them a little less detailed, it would be better. Of course, the Polish-Hungarian friendship is very important, our cooperation within the Visegrad Group, within the Tri-marriage, within the Weimar Triangle is very important. We had an important guest here yesterday... But there is no doubt that thinking about this location and having this dilemma of the state The region, however, must be remembered that for a parliamentarian, state matters are the most important. If we work well within the state, the regions will also be at the right level. Therefore, knowing that perhaps at this moment or a little later Tarnów, inhabitants, Tarnów authorities will look at their parliamentarians, I ask you to look wider, to see with conviction that a parliamentarian, a Member and a Senator, must think first of the whole country and only second of all about the region. We're fighting for this region, we're trying to get where we can, we're trying to get... All the more so because we know that this was also the wish of the Hungarians, that it should be Warsaw. There were voices here that it was duplication. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Hungarian Institute is Hungarian and the Polish Institute in Budapest is Polish. And we're doing a whole different story here. In Warsaw, in Poland we set up the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation, and in Budapest it is symmetrical, so it is not a repetition. Therefore, in conclusion, I stress: Tarnów is extremely well deserved, extremely important, we will be happy if it is a seat, and if not, it should be a very important place, a very important branch, because the genius loci Tarnów in Polish-Hungarian friendship is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u92	Thank you, Senator. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u93	Dear Marshal! Dear Senators! I will start by saying that I like Hungary very much, I have been in Hungary many times, I have worked with Hungary, I am a great advocate of Polish-Hungarian cooperation. However, I do not fully understand the meaning of the establishment of this institute, nor the sudden need for its establishment, why at this point, why this institute, etc. Let me make this clear in order to draw your attention to what we are dealing with here. As I understand it, I may be wrong, but I don't think so. This is the first or one of the first projects from the firm of the new prime minister. And in my opinion, the fact that this project is flawed can be explained precisely by the fact that it was the beginning that Prime Minister Morawiecki was in Hungary, made some commitments... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...there was an idea somewhere, and of course the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not oppose it, condemn or criticize the idea of the Prime Minister's firm. Why do I dare criticize this idea? First of all, it's going to be the first institution of this kind... [[Courage stood.]] Mrs. Marshal, could you get the senator's attention... [[I'm just returning your call, Senator, attention.]] [[The lady asked, I answered: the courage stood.]] ...so that he doesn't interrupt... [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet.]] Mr. Senator, please don't interrupt. [[Voice from the room: Which one?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't remember the name. I'm sorry. [[But silence, please. Don't interrupt the senator's speech. There you go.]] I hope this time is added to my count. [[15 seconds.]] So this institute will be the first institution of such character, because the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding is a completely different institution, dealing with completely different issues. This facility, which we are talking about, is unnecessary in my opinion, mainly because it duplicates most of the tasks that Polish institutes have carried out so far. Such an institute exists. And it is one of the oldest institutes, it is probably 75 years old and the Polish Institute in Budapest. There is also a twin institute in Warsaw. These are excellently functioning facilities. I've been to the institute in Budapest many times, it's a really dynamic, well-functioning facility, known to Hungary and highly valued and respected there. And I think that would be enough. But if we set up such institutes... Perhaps it's some bolder idea of the ministry. If so, we could consider whether we will simply set up such institutes with all our important partners. And I'm having second thoughts here, too. First of all, I think that Poland simply cannot afford it. We cannot afford to appoint and duplicate institutes that already have their headquarters, they already have their history and their merits. Secondly, if I start, why Budapest? Why such an institute? I find it sad that the first institute is the Polish-Hungarian Institute. Not at all undermining the importance of our friendship and our fantastic relationship for centuries... But why is our strategic partner, because that's how it should be understood at the moment, to become Hungary? I don't get it at all. I mean. I really... If we don't have this type of institute in the United States, we don't have one in France, we don't have one in Germany, and we don't have one in our immediate neighbours, those who, in case of emergency... who are strategically needed, we're just looking for... We believe that the most important thing at the moment is the establishment of an institute with a strategic partner, very important, highly valued by Poland, but let us be honest. Just a small country and quite distant from Poland, of little importance at the moment. If it were to be about this one vote, so that it does not go to zero, as are the votes in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, then perhaps I would say that it is still worth it. But I do not trust Mr Orban as much as the Polish government, and I believe that building such an institute will not allow us to gain the support of Hungary in Europe. So how come there's money here for how... I think it's just the idea that the Prime Minister had. He's gone somewhere, promised, and we're doing an institute. In fact, this is absolutely unacceptable and from an international policy point of view, which... Notabene, we still don't know what her goals are. We do not know the goals of Polish international policy, Polish cultural policy. They're indeterminate. And we can say different things about different things, but just who is Poland's most important strategic partner at the moment, we are not able to say. None of you can justify why Hungary is our most important partner at the moment, why there is yet another institute to be set up for the money of Polish taxpayers and similar institute here. Except for some goals that weren't mentioned here and I really don't know... There is no logical justification for why Hungary should be an important partner here. Even if it were in Tarnów, Ladies and gentlemen, it might make sense, I think. Well, as I hear it, ladies and gentlemen, that the institute in Hungary is in Budapest... It's pretty obvious because there aren't many big cities out there, and we're a really big country. It's not like... [[In Wroclaw.]] We are a big country and we have other cities besides Warsaw. And, Mr. Director, it was embarrassing that the poor director would have to drive from Tarnow to Warsaw to sign papers or meet with the cultural attaché of the Hungarian embassy. This is embarrassing. I can assure you that many Poles drive in this way and in this way, among others. Members and senators, without any problem, repeatedly. So there's no problem. Fortunately, the Civic Platform has built some highways and is something to drive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u94	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Referring to the law on which we are working, it is worth mentioning how the legislator defines the tasks of the Institute, firstly, to convey to young generations the importance of the Polish-Hungarian tradition; secondly, to strengthen cooperation and establish contacts between representatives of the young generation, particularly in the field of culture and sport; thirdly, to promote scientific cooperation, initiatives and scientific and educational projects aimed at mutual understanding of the language, culture, history and politics of both countries; fourthly, to promote the mutual thought of innovative Polish-Hungarian cultural, economic and political organisations in order to strengthen the competitiveness of both countries; finally, the fifth, financing or funding of projects for Polish-Hungarian cooperation, and sixthly, the analysis of political, economic and social changes in Europe, affecting the security and development of the Republic of Poland and Hungary. I think that these objectives have been very clearly defined and the same objectives show the need to set up such an institution. I would like to express my satisfaction that such an institution will be created in Warsaw or Poland and that such an institution will be created symmetrically also in Hungary, contrary to the voices of the opposition, which is trying to make an impression on this initiative or present it in a curved mirror. I don't share those views. First of all, I believe that the Polish Institute in Budapest or the Hungarian Culture Institute in Warsaw have completely separate tasks and these are not institutions which would be able to carry out within their current structure as extensive activities as they have been carried out for this institution. Secondly, I would also like to draw attention to a particular kind of Polish-Hungarian relations. I wouldn't mind that Hungary doesn't have other big cities, but they have Budapest and they're a small, insignificant partner. I think it's bad for us if we try to depreciate our partners in foreign policy, just taking into account the geographical size, demographic potential or the number of cities that are on the ground. All of us. Poland and Hungary are members of the European Union. We have close cooperation. We are animators of the Visegrad Group. Hungary's voice is as important in the European Council as the voice of France, Spain, Germany or another country. And it's worth remembering if we're talking about real politics, not some kind of fairy tale we'd like to tell. But there is another important reason for our mutual cooperation. It comes from history, for after all: Pole, Hungary, two nephews, and to the sword, and to the glass. This proverb, known for generations, shows a close, eternal friendship between our nations. The original text cited by Michał Tchaikowski, Sadyk Pasha, in the middle of the 19th century had an even more emphasis on the accuracy of historical accounts and the common Christian roots: Hungary, Poles, two nephews, and to the horse, and to the glass, both screeching, both of them, may God bless them. Recourse to blood ties is a European phenomenon. [[It's already been done.]] In our more than 1,000-year history, we often had the same opponents, but we never fought each other. The Hungarians supported the confederates of the barges, Poles with General Bem and Hungarians during the national uprising in 1848. After the German-Soviet invasion of Poland in 1939, our nephews accepted Polish exiles and in 1956. Poles showed great solidarity with the Hungarian people, who tried to get away from the Soviet yoke. This is our common history and our common heritage. It is also worth remembering that in Poland there is a constitutional discussion. In this context, it is worth recalling that Hungary has already had such a discussion. A new constitution was adopted in Budapest, which entered into force on 1 January 2012. This important document states: "We do not recognise the legal continuity of the communist constitution of 1949, which was the basis of the regime, so we declare it invalid. It is further noted that the return to self-determination took place on 2 May 1990, on the date of the establishment of the first National Assembly of free elections. The preamble to the new Hungarian Constitution, which begins with the words of prayer, is also significant: The Constitution expresses its pride that the quote from the preamble The first king, Saint Stefan, laid the Hungarian state on permanent foundations a thousand years ago, and made our homeland part of Christian Europe. And then, while respecting the various religious traditions of the country, it considers the role of Christendom to be crucial to the maintenance of our nation. The new basic law also protects marriage as a union between men and women, which is, again, the basis for the survival of the nation, and elsewhere. It protects the life of an unborn child from conception. It was also recognised that the most important framework for Hungarian coexistence is family and nation, and that the fundamental values of Hungarian unity remain faithful, faith and love. The Constitution states not only that the family is the basis for the duration of the nation, but also that the tax should be determined taking into account the costs incurred in raising children. It is difficult not to notice that the Hungarian Constitution explicitly refers to proven values and deviates from the newly created and politically correct EU documents created in the Eurocrat language. From this point of view, too, what is happening in Hungary is important for building Europe's relationship and returning to proven values. And in this respect, Hungary, with its history, its heritage and our centuries-old historical cooperation, are crucial. From this point of view, the establishment of this institute is important for institutionalising Polish-Hungarian cooperation. What absolutely does not prevent the future, as some in this Chamber wish, from creating other institutes that will institutionalise our proven contacts with other countries. I think here, above all, about e.g. The United States and the well-known sympathy of the Polish people to the American people, the multigenerational traditions we have in this regard. But I'm thinking here. also about other partners existing in Europe Because not all of these partners are members of the European Union, I think here, for example. about Ukraine, which, as you know, is not yet in the European Union. Thus, from this point of view, it is very good that, within the framework of the policy pursued by the new government, these areas of mutual relations are institutionalised, too, that we are dealing with an initiative that meets these expectations. I would also like to refer to the Tarnow issue discussed here. Well, at the committee meeting... [[Voice from the room: Za, za.]] During the committee meeting, I asked both Minister and President Tarnow what they said, because the bill allows the possibility of a local center where the statutory authorities of this institution will want to hold it. This possibility exists and I think it may be Tarnów, but not only Tarnów, because in Poland there are at least several such places which are known for their special Polish-Hungarian ties. Perhaps in the future it will be possible. So that I believe that the Act does not close anything, but, on the contrary, opens up further possibilities in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u96	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski. [[Just not too long, but rather more substantial.]] [[Don't tell me because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I have been present at this discussion since the very beginning, and I have not seen anyone laugh or act tactlessly in relation to this bill or discussion. On the contrary, I saw in all my voices the concern about the state budget, about what our international relations are like. If anyone was critical, he had absolutely the right to do so, and I agree with those critical sentences. Well, the duplication of state institutions is very questionable, especially since such events or the construction of such an additional institution are going to cost millions of zlotys, and we know that in many places money is needed. As for Polish-Hungarian relations it is nobody in this room, none of us have any doubts that they are centuries old, they are very important to us. Like I said in my questions. I'll do it again. My home town, the city of Szczecin, also has a significant card in history in relation to relations with Hungary, because the inhabitants of Szczecin helped the people of Budapest, especially one district. But I understand the senators' concerns, especially Senator Zdrojewska. or Senator Klich, who spoke about the fact that we are duplicated institutions. Since we are duplicated, in fact, since this is the decision of the parliamentary majority, of the government, and you will most likely vote it out, it would be logical for all of us to have such an institution actually established in Tarnów. Because if we look at the merits of the city of Tarnow, its history and Polish-Hungarian relations, it is obvious that if such an institution is created, it should be there. I had the pleasure of talking to the city councilman Tarnow, Mr.Kuba Kwasny, doctor, scientist, who presented me many very important points and also the role of Tarnow, which this city played in these Hungarian-Polish relations. That's why I'll say it again. Since the Law and Justice programme in 2015 was such as to bring central institutions or state institutions outside Warsaw to balance development... In addition, Senator Fedorowicz showed very clearly that for such a city as Tarnów or any other city smaller than Warsaw, the introduction to it of an institute, a state institution, an office is important and important. If from this conversation with Councilman Kwośny, with Dr. Kwośny it follows that today symbols concerning Hungary are in Tarnów, that there are absolutely places of memory concerning Polish-Hungarian relations, then why, by such a course of reasoning, that bringing institutions to a place that is really prepared for this and would be an interesting symbol on the map of Poland just Polish-Hungarian relations, do not do that? I don't understand these arguments. And now I'm addressing the Minister. They were demeaning, very bad and insensitive when it comes to those spoken in this House. 'Cause the fact that someone has to get on a train and go to do an official thing is not a shame or a problem. Not only parliamentarians, as Senator Zdrojewska said, travel all over the country to carry out their own mandate, but the state is paying for it, as is the case with the official. But if we look at the city offices, municipalities or even the chiefs or the mayors, we'll see that they travel too, to do things in different places, and no one complains that they have to do it, nobody's worried that they have to do it. They just drive around and do it. There is no representative office in Warsaw, but just gets on a train, a car or a bus station and goes to Warsaw if you have to do such a thing. Second thing. Today, in the age of digitalization and in fact technological development many issues can be dealt with online, you can have a teleconference, you can send emails, and from Tarnow is much closer to Hungary than from Warsaw. And it is not as Senator Czudowska said, that most Hungarians who come to Poland take the first steps in Warsaw, because very many are coming to Szczecin just to see this place, which is really, very important and important for the people of Budapest. And I appeal from this point, since the political decision on the establishment of this institute has already taken place, although we have a lot of doubts about it, and about the financial ones, and about the duplication of some actions that are in fact on the political market in Poland, that it may be worth it again. I appeal particularly to the Senators of Law and Justice, because it's up to you to do so. Think about this Tarnów. It's not like anything's gonna happen, and you guys are gonna do your own election program. Moreover, the same discussion took place today at the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, a discussion on the removal of another really state institution outside the borders of Warsaw. And in that case, the ministry was more favorable and differently looked at it than the Minister was now doing on this platform, showing examples that I no longer want to repeat, because, as I said, they were ridiculous. Therefore, if such a decision was made, this Tarnów could be taken into account, and not only because the president lobbied, not only because the councilman lobbied, because the Tarnów community really lobbied for it, and the fact that individual senators from different other places in Poland said so also shows that it might be worth leaning on it. It is not really a big deal to move this seat, but in fact Tranów's rank as a city, especially in these Polish-Hungarian relations, but not only will increase absolutely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u98	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Maybe I don't want to dig into the essence of the institute because there are so many sentences, opinions for and against. I would like to remind you, as people of law and justice, of a few things that you committed to two years ago. Surely in this program it was not that you would set up a Polish-Hungarian Institute, I checked it out. But one more sentence about which Senator Jackowski and Minister spoke, namely about this difference. I listened to this debate and read on the Internet about the tasks and what these institutes are doing today. And this 80-year-old Polish institute in Hungary, which next year, as I read, will celebrate the 80th anniversary... I want to say that you will write, erase, Mr. Senator, that if you put a carbon... Well, you wouldn't find a lot of differences. There are riddles, people take pictures and they say, "Find the difference." The way you're gonna make such a puzzle about the differences in the tasks that are being carried out, you're not gonna find much of them. But in order not to go into the subject of the diversity of these institutes for a long time, I will say, Minister, that the difference is colossal. Senator Klich isn't here, but I'll give it to him at recess. Well, my professor at college. I've already said it a few times, but I'm going to repeat it once again. He explained the difference between the political economy of socialism and capitalism. Students, said the professor, remember: in the political economy of capitalism is the primary principle Yes, Minister, the exploitation of man by man, and in the political economy of socialism is exactly the opposite. And that's how it is with those institutes that you're building. I would understand if you built one Polish-Hungarian institute on their basis, which would have an extended statute. Well, then I'm still able to understand. And so it is to build something, because Prime Minister Orbán met with Mr Kaczyński and established that there will be an institute, and you humbly implement it. Well, what's there to say? Plus, if this is gonna be the support instrument that Senator Zdrojewska was talking about so it wouldn't be 27:1, but 27:2... well, it's $6 million. It's just that and you have to say it boldly and boldly. But now it's about general stuff. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the important elements of your campaign will remind you of this. There was talk of a cheap country, about reducing administration, etc., etc. I'm the one who's gonna start with what yesterday and today mean. I'm sure you'll be passing the following billings in a moment. First, the bill on the appointment of an entrepreneur's spokesperson is 18 million. Next: 100 more people in the Marshal's Watch or 120 more, as it rained later. Well, so on average, out of 15.18 million more. And here's $6 million. At one meeting, you took 40 million lightly out of the taxpayers' pockets, of course as part of a reduction in administration. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are the first Vice-Ministers in Europe, and in terms of the number of ministers The others in Europe. We have a fantastic office corps. The mechanism is as follows: Minister Kempa is leaving one ministry, creating another, and she is returning to the position of Minister. These are mechanisms for creating functions for various types of activists, different types of people who need to be pushed somewhere for at this institute. And that's a dangerous phenomenon. Ladies and gentlemen, during these 2 years you have created 13 new central institutions in Poland. I'll say it again: in 2 years, 13 institutions. I think if we go at this rate, we'll chase Russia out, and maybe another. a larger country, which also has such indicators for building the power of the state administration. And this is the direction: building a central administration-based state. Ladies and gentlemen, this central administration is, as I have read recently in the press and as social media reports, not only well rewarded, it is still well rewarded. Well, 1.5 million zlotys went to the awards for the ministers of the government of law and justice. It cost us 1.5 million zlotys. This 1.5 trillion investment I remember from the campaign turned into 1.5 million dollars for the ministers of the government of law and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I address the Senators of Law and Justice. In a time of great fasting, remember the Bible's seven years of fat and skinny. It's not gonna be like this all the time. We're gonna have this kind of economic growth. I just want to say that today 12 countries in the European Union already have a surplus of revenue over expenditure. Poland is among the three countries with the highest debt ratio compared to GDP, and you are setting up institutes and councils. I want to tell you that, uh... well, I was thinking that you guys have a pattern that fits: if we don't know what to do, we're either building a council or a proxy or an institute for cases. This money-sharking thing is gonna end someday. The rich host called Joseph, who foretold what to do. Maybe there are some Josephs who will say, "Listen, dears, let's not spend it all on institutes, attorneys, councils and awards for ministers, but let's gather some for difficult years, because sooner or later they will come. Of course, we all want them to come as soon as possible in Europe, the world and Poland, but smart hosts are building the economy, building the budget, building functionality for the future, not what the senator said. In the framework of the political deal, they meet several people and decide that some institute is to be established. That's why I'm asking you to reflect. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to bear in mind that the state budget must be treated as if you were spending money out of your own pocket, and you are doing everything as if you were spending it out of someone else's pocket. If you were to spend... Now I will talk about what concerns the expectations of Poles in many spheres. Well, you gave me 5%. wage increases at 2.3% inflation. It's easy to count how much this teacher will have to raise. If you were going towards wage-related consumption, I would still be able to understand it, but consumption consisting of setting up various kinds of institutions, awarding awards to ministers, which comes down to this kind of expenditure, is simply overeating Poland. And that's how they played. I'm saying it in quotes. Hungary, and today Hungary, as one of 12 countries, has a budget surplus, which I wish Poland under the PiS with all my heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u100	Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u101	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Senate! Friends from Tarnów! Mr. President Tarnow! Mr. Roman, it's hot! You're watching us. Well, we would support this bill if I were sure that the amendment would pass, which was tabled by the PiS senator, so that the Institute's seat would be the city of Tarnów. But with amazement Although my experience with this Senate indicates that I should not be amazed I don't know yet, because I'm about to go to the joint committee, where the senator, Madam Hare and I... But I have already been informed about the minutes of the Senate meeting that Senator Martynowski had requested that the draft be passed without amendment. Minister, we've had a lot of these situations here. This haste which you impose on us by making laws that are not very precise... This law should in theory not have so many mistakes that we have to correct them, because it was prepared by the government, not by a group of Members, unless I am mistaken. And since I'm never wrong, I guess that's the truth. I don't want to repeat what has been said here about duplicated institutions. There have been many bitter words and warnings about this. I am merely reminding those who follow the work of the Senate that the Senate is the place of debate about the state, and this is the debate conducted by experienced people with different visions, the projects they have carried out. So we consider this group of people and club that I kind of represent I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well, it's an attempt to put people in the political back of the party into this institution. If I make a mistake, I will apologize, although until now, Minister, all such newly created institutions have been created exclusively for people for whom the Law and Justice have sought additional jobs. I just wish... I understand that the Minister's words about the fact that the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation has completely different tasks than the Polish Institute in Budapest and Hungarian Institute in Poland... Well, you could say that. I know you can say something like that, but in my mind, it doesn't really cover it. But it could always turn out to be After one or the other conference is held, which the institute cannot organise That you'd be right. That's what I wish you. And, by the way, we have many huge debts of gratitude to the Hungarian people; they are on both sides. There's no doubt about that. As a man of theater, I can say that my entire environment was supported in very difficult situations by our Hungarian brothers. We worked in Hungary, and there were some cool, lasting relationships. But I would most like to thank Hungary for supporting Poland's candidate for President of the Union, Mr Donald Tusk, including the 27:1 vote. And that's what I thank you for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u102	Senator Jan Hamerski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, I am a little amazed by some of the speeches made by my previous speakers, and in particular by their determination and attempt to enter this institute, it seems to me, a very noble and important issue in our relations, Polish-Hungarian relations, into great politics, great economics. Well, to say it's an absurd idea or an artificial creation, I really don't think it's right for this House. Ladies and gentlemen, in turn I am a border man, I was born on the border. Once, for a few nice centuries it was the Polish-Hungarian border, then, in the interwar period Polish-Czechoslovak, also after the war, and for twenty years it has been the Polish-Slovak border. So I can safely say that I am a border man. That is why I would like to thank the government warmly for the idea of setting up such an institute. I would also like to thank you for being the patron of this institute I hope that the High Chamber will pass this bill by Professor Wacław Felczak, whom I had the pleasure of personally knowing before many, many years of study at the Jagiellonian University. I would like to say that the figure of the patron of this institute has been known and of course is known, and I think it will be known to the next generations of highlanders, who thanks to their activities, among others. Professor Felczak, as the head and creator of the Budapest facility, carried out all those who fled Poland to be in the ranks of the Polish army fighting in the west of Europe. I would like to say that Prof. Felczak was a truly outstanding figure who deserves to be called a hero not only because of Polish-Hungarian relations, but also because of us Poles who live on the border, today Polish-Slovak. Therefore, I would like to ask the High House, also to vote in favour of this law establishing the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation for them. Wenceslas Felczak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Marek Martynowski and Andrzej Kobiak. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward? Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the death of Father Stanisław Streich. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 726, and the committee's report In print No 726 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Legislative Commission a report on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the death of Fr. Stanisław Streicha; print No 726. I am doing this with greater satisfaction that I am the representative of the 27 applicants who tabled this resolution. High Izbo, 80 years ago, the exact anniversary will be on 27 February in Lubon near Poznań. Fr. Stanisław Streich, 36-year-old priest of the Archdiocese of Poznań at the time of his death, was murdered by a communist for ideological reasons. This murder is unique, although the priest's faces have occurred in the older and recent history, because it was done during the Eucharist sacrifice, so at the time of priestly ministry, and caused a shock throughout Poland, a broad debate. Funeral Fr. Streicha took place at the beginning of March. At the climax of this funeral there were 20,000 faithful, which was a number for those times, I would say, huge, and 200 banner mails. This ceremony was also attended by the Primate of Poland cardinals. Hlond. High Izbo, as I mentioned, in our latest history This is essentially an unprecedented event. And at least the martyrdom of Fr. Streicha is compared with the martyrdom of Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, however, from the point of view of legal circumstances this is a different situation, because Fr. Popieluszko was not murdered at the time of his priestly duties, only when he returned, as we know, after the religious celebrations that took place in Bydgoszcz. However, these parallels, of course, appear. I would also like to point out that Fr. Streich was regarded as a gifted, good priest, with extremely good contact with the faithful. Fr. Streich was a person who did not arouse any negative emotions with her priestly ministry. Hence, this whole situation connected with his martyrdom caused the greater shock. After many years of efforts, after obtaining the consent of the Holy See and the Polish Episcopal Conference, the beatification process began. Streicha. It started in October last year and is now ongoing. I don't want to talk about this whole thing anymore. She's historically described. I would like to read the text of the resolution at the end of my speech. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 80th anniversary of the death of Father Stanisław Streich. February 27th was the 80th anniversary of the event, which shocked the whole of Poland years ago. On Sunday 27 February 1938, Fr. Stanisław Streich, the first parish priest of the newly established parish of St. Jana Bosko in Lubon near Poznań. The perpetrator of the assassination was Lorenzo Nowak, a communist from Lubonia acting for reasons of anti-religious hatred. In the funeral celebrations Fr. Stanisław Streicha was attended by the Primate of Poland cardinals. August Hlond, and on 3 March 1938 at their climax took part in them approx. 20,000 people and 200 flags of various organizations. Fr. Stanisław was born on 27 August 1902 in Bydgoszcz. In 1920 he graduated from the Classical Junior High School at pl. Liberty in Bydgoszcz, then joined the Higher Seminary in Poznań and Gniezno, and received priestly ordination at the hands of cardinals. Edmund Dalbor, Archbishop of Gniezno and Poznań, on 6 June 1925. Between 1925 and 1927 he studied classical philosophy at the University of Poznań, while being a chaplain and prefect of the Ursula sisters' junior high school as well as the Municipal School of Commerce. On 1 October 1927 he became a vicar in the parish of St. Floriana in Poznań and in April 1928 a religious teacher at the State Teacher's Seminar in Kozmin. Then, on July 1, 1929, he took up Vicar duties in the parish of God's Body in Poznań, and since January 1, 1932. In the parish of St. Marcin in Poznan. The vast crowds of Poznań residents of that time kept in grateful memory of this pious priest, always smiling, polite. In 1935 he became the administrator of the parish in Lubon. As Janusz Kutta wrote, author of the Biographical Dictionary of Bydgoszcz, Fr. Streich had the opinion of an excellent preacher. In turn Stanisława Błażejak, which Fr. Streich in the years 1934-1935 prepared for the first Holy Communion, and later for confirmation, emphasized that this priest had a unique gift of pleasant approach to every person, ranging from infants, children, young people to old people. He stopped and talked to everyone. In general, he was well-liked and respected. The Archdiocese of Poznań, whose Fr. Streich was a priest, had already collected the necessary materials related to his life and activities and Okay, let's go, let's go, The Plenary Assembly on 5 October 2016 received nihil obstat, i.e. the necessary consent of the Polish Episcopate Conference to start the beatification process. After obtaining the permission of the Holy See, on 28 October 2017, the diocesan process of beatification of the priest who died of martyrdom began solemnly. The Senate of the Republic on the 80th anniversary of tragic events pays tribute to the memory of Fr. Stanisław Streich was brutally murdered 80 years ago while performing priestly duties. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u106	Thank you, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Who would like to ask such a question? Senator Czesław Ryszka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. Do you know from the history of Poland similar events that the priest was murdered during the Holy Mass? Isn't that a manifestation of some particular beastlyness, cruelty, the effect of hatred for the Church? We know from history that priests were murdered. You could say that there were a lot of thousands of cases like this. But can you think of another case like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u108	Mr. Senator, I'm gonna answer that question, including as a historian, in this way. I do not know such a case from the latest history of Poland, calculated since 1918. Perhaps it was; I'm not saying that it certainly wasn't. In order for the priest celebrating the Holy Mass to be murdered consciously, with premeditated intent, he was murdered during the service of the Holy Mass. In our history there have been such cases, and especially two of them are known. One concerned The details of this murder are not as well known as the details of the murder on Fr. St. Stanislaw of Szczepanow, who was murdered at the king's command in April 1079. There are different versions of this event. It is said that it happened just during the Bishop's services to the Holy Mass. The second such case The bishop of Poznań died during the service of the Holy Mass, when the Swedes carried out the war activities. These are the two known cases. In the contemporary history of the Church, the most famous case was the case of March 1980, the case of Archbishop. El Salvador Oscar Romero. As you know, the bishop was murdered under certain political circumstances. I don't want to go into detail right now. It was already in times we remember. He was murdered in March 1980. I don't remember what March. During the Holy Mass in his cathedral in San Salvador. It has been beatified and is now a blessed Roman Catholic Church. You're asking for a wake-up call. The perpetrator of the act has been tried. I'm talking about Nowak, who was the killer. He was legally sentenced to death in accordance with his code. But there are speculations... We have no record of this, no record of the execution protocols. That's why there's speculation that execution couldn't have happened and that he might have been convicted, for example. listed on one of the priests with the authorities of the Soviet Union. I repeat: these are speculations, but we have no hard evidence that the execution was carried out by the then Polish justice system. As far as motivation is concerned, then there was discussion. I just want to remind Professor Marian Zdziechowski, teacher of Czesław Miłosz's essay. He sacrificed the martyrdom of Fr. Streicha essay of the future. That was the title. He wrote in it that the reasons for the murder on Fr. Streichu should be sought in the rotten atmosphere that we breathe, produced by the Soviet propagand, whose purpose is to fight with God, with the idea of God, to completely exterminate her from the soul of man. I wouldn't want to get into a broader discussion about motivation here. This is not simply my role as rapporteur for the committee, but that is how I would answer your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u109	Thank you. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. I'm opening a discussion. I'll ask Senator Czesław Ryszka to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! In the resolution we recall the tragic event of February 27, 1938, when Fr. Stanisław Streich, the first parish priest of the newly established parish of St. Jana Bosko in Lubon near Poznań. The perpetrator of the assassination was Lorenzo Nowak, a communist from Lubonia acting for reasons of anti-religious hatred. When Fr. Streich entered the pulpit to preach, the bomber shot him four times, shouting "Long live communism!" The rapporteur, Prof. Marian Zdziechowski, an outstanding philosopher and humanist, mentioned here by the senator, in his essay "The Spectre of the Future," written in 1938 after the murder of Fr. Streicha, observing the coming spirit of the fight against the Church from the East, asked what could save us from the storm of evil. He wrote: "Only holiness could prevail in a terrible battle. Holiness is the spirit of the Church and the Church produces it. This is a powerful current of apostolate flowing through history. Maybe this electricity will wipe out hell's efforts... It's certain that the hard, martyrous times of trial are ahead of us. Maybe some of us are waiting for the fate of the Fr. Streicha. Let those who want to be Christ's company be ready for it. As it turned out, these were prophetic words. I would like to stress the words of the resolution: a communist acting for reasons of anti-religious hatred. When World War II broke out, besides Communists hating priests, German Nazis murdered several thousand Polish clergymen. It was no different after the end of World War II when Poland was imposed on the criminal communist system. Following the Soviet NKVD, the Ministry of Public Security, commonly known in Poland as UB, operated until 1954. And the crimes of the communists of U.B., carried out on the priests, on many priests, still today cry out for vengeance to heaven. Near the village where I come from, in Płoki near Trzebini, he was murdered on 11 May 1946. Michael Rapach. Communist bandits ran into the rectory before midnight and took the parish priest with them. Before his death they spared him no torture, dragged a priest around the church, told him to crawl on his knees, beat him where he fell. Then they dragged him to a nearby chick and shot him there. They simply executed the sentence handed down by the Communist Party, by security. They left bullet casings at the crime scene, which means they were hoping for full impunity. Fr. Michael Rapacz died a martyr's death because he was uncomfortable for people who hated religion, the Church and the clergy. To this day, the memory of the murdered priest is very vivid in this area, and his beatification process began in the archdiocese of Krakow. Of course, the killings of priests after World War II are not the subject of this resolution, but I would like to stress that before and after the war the communists made the fight against the Church their priority. Religious and communism cannot exist side by side, neither in theory nor in practice, by Soviet ideologists. The apparatus of repression hunted especially on those priests who courageously evangelized in these difficult times. Speaking of Chrzanov and the murders of Fr. Rapacz I will say that the IPN established that in the vicinity of Chrzanov there was a secret PPR asset, a death squadron, which issued death sentences on the inconvenient party of soldiers of the Home Army, members of legal opposition biases and, of course, priests. The hood courts and the death squadrons mentioned above in Chrzanowski's Zagłębie are a confirmed fact. E.g. a few months after Fr. At night, from 6 to 7 September 1946, the unfamiliar perpetrators killed the parish priest in the neighboring Libya, Fr. Franciszek Flasiński, who also dared to criticize the actions of the communist authorities. At that time, the famous Julia Brysygierov, known as the bloody Luna, was led by a Jewish woman who had been involved in the communist movement since 1927. Between 1945 and 1954, she was the director of the infamous 5th Department of the Ministry of Public Security. At the briefing of the management of the Ministry on 15 October 1947. Brystygierowa gave a paper entitled "Clergy Offensive" and our tasks. Let me quote a little piece of this paper. I quote: In the fight against the democratic system of the Polish State, the Polish clergy begin to put themselves first. Therefore, the issue of countering and combating the hostile political activity of the clergy and the Catholic camp must take the appropriate place in the work of public security bodies. The fact that the Polish clergy office is in the Vatican, which today plays the role of one of the most anti-democratic, anti-Soviet and pro-American factors in international politics, also sets the course of the Polish episcopate policy. Our camera has so far underestimated and has generally failed to address this issue properly. Combating the enemy activity of the clergy is undoubtedly one of the most difficult tasks we face. Our operations must move towards: work out the participation of priests in the underground, which is now very serious. But in the next program paper, 2 years later, entitled "About the directions of work at a new stage of the fight against the clergy, Bristygierov called directly for the destruction of the Catholic Church as a Vatican agent. I am talking about this because it would seem that the transformation of 1956, that the Public Security Office was no longer there, and then the infamous Security Service was established, while the action of the death squads in relation to the Church and priests was taken by Department IV of the MMA, and especially the group The idea was to divide, fight, antagonize the Church in Poland with provocations, lies, false evidence, prepared documents. Of course, it didn't happen without reaching for criminal means. The SB bandits were active until the end of the 1980s, murdering, among others. Priests Popiełuszka, Sunday, Suchowolca, Zycha, Palimąka, Kija or Kowalczyk. Today we remember in the resolution Fr. Stanisław Streich. But let us remember that despite persecution, the Catholic Church, priests, Catholic bishops throughout the period of the Polish People's Republic were the stronghold of Polish resistance against communism. For Poles, the church was not only a depositary of Christ's teaching, but also an uncontaminated institution of national life. In short, the Church helped most Poles to pass through the red sea of communism with a dry leg. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the Senate could now proceed to the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. I'm declaring a recess until 4:30 p.m.... Are there any messages? There isn't, right? Oh, there's an announcement. Then please read it.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u112	High Senate, joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Culture and Media on proposals submitted at the Senate meeting to the Act on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak will be held today immediately after the opening of the Senate session in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u113	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 4:30 p.m. Then the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 23 to 16 minutes 33]] High Senate! I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Dear Senators! I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting will take place on 6, 7 and 8 March 2018. The agenda for this meeting will be sent to you by e-mail. I would like to remind you that today at 6 p.m., the screening of the film "Senator" will take place in room 217, which I would like to invite you very cordially. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the residence conditions of foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the rules of their movement through this territory. The National Defence Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 727 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 77 senators voted in favour, 77 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Foreign Military Rules Act on the territory of the Republic of Poland and on the rules of their movement through this territory. I inform you senators that, for legislative reasons, we will vote on the package of laws related to the Act of the Entrepreneur's Law from the third point of the agenda. We will then proceed with the vote on the second, fourth, fifth and sixth paragraphs. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Entrepreneurs. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 716 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the laws were examined, to which amendments were tabled at the Senate meeting yesterday. As regards the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, the committee recommends the adoption of the conclusions set out in paragraphs 9, 10 and 12 and 18 of Section II, together with a summary of the conclusions contained in print No 716 Z. In addition, as rapporteur for the committee, I inform you that on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, amended the content of his application in the table of applications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u115	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion: Mr Jan Rulewski, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn, Mr Kazimierz Kleina. Mr. Senator Klein. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would very much like to ask all senators to support this amendment, which Mr President mentioned here, and on which I made an auto-correction at the committee meeting. This amendment concerns the seat of the Ombudsman. Of course, my suggestion, as well as a large part of the members of the committee, is that this seat should be outside Warsaw. This is about a programme of some deconcentration of public administration. We've been working on this for many years, and sometimes we have success. Such an initiative comes out of the Senate because we believe that many public tasks can be carried out not only in Warsaw, but also in other places in Poland. We don't point, I don't point... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...and the committee doesn't indicate which city or town... well, the city, it would be the seat of this institution. We're saying... And this self-correction of mine is going as far as possible in this direction as possible to respond to the Minister's expectation. Let's try this action. Remember, in our previous term of office, we were able to do one operation in this area. It was a very difficult thing to do. Let's try to do this and now, start this. You have already created dozens of new institutions and they are all created in Warsaw, and really there are many cities in Poland that can successfully carry out these tasks concerning national administration. That is why there is a request to help the minister here so that he can make such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u117	Thank you, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on Senator Jan Rulewski's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted against, 2 against, 77 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 15, 16 and 19 are intended to change the name of the institution appointed by determining that it will be the Entrepreneur's Rights Advocate. At the same time, the amendments provide that the Ombudsman will be appointed and cancelled by the Sejm at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers and that the Deputy Ombudsman will be appointed by himself from among the candidates presented by representative employers' organisations within the meaning of the Social Dialogue Council and other institutions of social dialogue. In addition, the amendments seek to modify the Ombudsman's catalogue of tasks, including giving him the power to give a statute defining the tasks and organisation of the Ombudsman's office, and requiring the Ombudsman to inform not only the President of the Council of Ministers about his activities annually, but also the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 51 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] The amendments were rejected. Amendment 3 amends the list of conditions to be met by the person appointed as an Ombudsman. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 54 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 5 reduces the length of the Ombudsman's term of office from 6 years to 5 years. In addition, it justifies that the same person will be able to act as an Ombudsman for two terms. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 53 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 9 aims to align the terminology of the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs with that of the Law of Entrepreneurs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 9 was accepted. Amendment 10 clarifies that the Ombudsman's task will be to evaluate draft normative acts also as regards the rules for taking up or leaving business in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 80 votes against, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 11 amends the Ombudsman's mandate catalogue. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 12 aims to eliminate a provision which is an unnecessary repetition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 13 clarifies that the Ombudsman will also examine whether an infringement of freedom and economic activity has occurred as a result of acts or omissions of the public administration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 54 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 14 seeks to require the Ombudsman to initiate an investigation or disciplinary action where he finds an infringement of the rights of the trader in the activities of public authorities, organisations or bodies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 54 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 17 indicates that when determining the seat of the Ombudsman's office, the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs will follow the principle of geographical concentration and the need for effective performance of tasks, as well as the proper use of human, intellectual and material potential and existing infrastructure, including ICT infrastructure. At the same time, the amendment justifies that Warsaw will not be the seat of the Ombudsman's office. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 36 were in favour, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 18 provides that when determining the seat of the Ombudsman's office... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Everyone, please be quiet. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Amendment 18 provides that, when determining the seat of the Ombudsman's office, the Minister will take into account the need to ensure the effective execution of the Ombudsman's tasks and will be guided by the need for concentration. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 80 were in favour, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 63 were in favour, no one opposed, 18 senators abstained. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. We would like to return to the second agenda: the Law of the Entrepreneurs. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 715 Z. I ask Senator Andrzej Stanisławek to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u118	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends the adoption of amendments to the Law of Entrepreneurs contained in paragraphs 7, 9 and 16, 22, 23 and 25 of the compilation of the conclusions contained in print No 715 Z. In addition, the committee shall inform that under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 of the Senate Rules of Procedure Senator Mieczysław Augustyn changed the content of his proposal On the basis of the same article, it withdrew its request.8 in the compilation of applications. [[Quiet, ladies and gentlemen!]] Dear Marshal, if I may, I propose a joint vote on Amendments 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 22 and 23. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u119	Thank you very much, Senator. Are any of you against voting in the block on the amendments mentioned by your senator? No. Good. Does Senator Mieczysław Augustyn still want to speak? No. I would like to remind you that Senator Mieczysław Augustyn withdrew his request for point 8 in print No 715 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment No 1 indicates in the provision setting out the scope of the Act that it also regulates the rules of law governing the activities of entrepreneurs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 2 modifies the conditions for the recognition of economic activities as unregistered activities. In particular, the limitation on the 60-month period of non-business activity was waived. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was rejected. Amendments 3 and 4 modify the conditions excluding the obligation for the Authority to follow the principle of trust in the trader and the principle of resolving doubts as to the content of the legal standard for the benefit of the trader in its actions. In particular, the general clause of an important public interest has been abandoned here. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] The amendment was rejected. Amendment 6 aims to ensure that the so-called. The start-up allowance could be applied for 12 months and extends its scope to health insurance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 55 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was rejected. Now amendment block 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 22 and 23. Who is in favour of these amendments? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no one voted against or no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 10 adds the provision resulting from the adoption of the Act of 26 January 2018 amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 80 were in favour, no one was. against and no one abstained from voting. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 10 was accepted. Amendments 17, 18, 19 and 20 introduce a closed catalogue of activities requiring the award of a concession and lay down the rules of procedure where a limited number of concessions is envisaged and the procedure where the number of undertakings fulfilling the conditions for the award of a concession is greater than the number of concessions envisaged to be awarded. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 23]] Amendments were not accepted. Amendment 21 amends the title of the chapter in which the provisions on control of economic activities are included. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 24]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 24 replaces the provisions concerning the drafting of draft normative acts and their impact assessment with rules on impact assessment and public consultation of government and non-governmental draft normative acts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 27 were in favour, 52 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 25 seeks to take into account in the provision on the presentation of an impact assessment of the Senate's practice in drawing up a justification for the draft law and assessing the impact of the regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 79 were in favour, no one voted against, one abstention. [[Voting No 26]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 67 were in favour, no one voted against, 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law of Entrepreneurs. Thank you. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 717 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 in order to avoid a legal gap expresses in one provision a standard according to which the trader will be able to apply for social and health insurance both himself and the workers. Amendments 5 and 33 to the Law on the Law on the Law of Entrepreneurs and other business laws are the consequence of the amendment. Rejection of Amendment 1 casts a vote on these amendments without object. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 votes for, no one was against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted, 78 for, no one was against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 2 was accepted. Amendment 3 accepts that the application for entry in CEIDG is incorrect if it concerns non-economic activities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 votes for, no one was against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 3 was accepted. Amendment 4 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 80 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 65 votes against, no one opposed, 15 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Enterprises and Other Foreign Persons in Economic Trade in the Republic of Poland. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 718 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to enable members of the families of foreign persons residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland to take up and pursue business activity on the basis of a temporary residence permit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 votes for, no one was against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 corrects a vague reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 80 senators voting, 80 votes for, no one was. against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 70 votes against, no one opposed, 11 abstentions. [[Voting No 35]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Trade and Other Foreign Persons in Economic Trade in the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law introducing the Law of Entrepreneur's Law and other laws concerning business activity. A meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print 719 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Andrzej Stanisławek, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission recommends the adoption of amendments to the Act. Provisions introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws concerning economic activities contained in points 3, 5 and 30, 33, 35 and 37 of the compilation of the conclusions contained in the Print No 719 Z. In addition, the committee shall inform that under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 The Senate's Rules of Procedure, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, amended the content of its proposal, paragraph 37 in the compilation of proposals. I propose a joint vote, if your marshal will allow it. On amendments Nos 5 and 24, 26 and 29, 33, 35 and 36. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u121	Thank you very much. Is any of you against us voting on the rapporteur's amendment to the amendment block? There are no votes against. We'll proceed to the... Oh, does the senator, Mr Mieczysław Augustyn, want to speak again? [[No.]] Thank you, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the act as a whole, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. [[Voice from the O.R.: We start at three.]] Good. Amendments 3, 25, 30 and 37 amend the date of entry into force of the laws for 30 days from the date of publication and are the consequence of the adoption of the Act of 26 January 2018 amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 senators voted, 81 were in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] The amendments have been accepted. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in block on amendments Nos 5 and 24, 26 and 29, 33, 35 and 36. Who is in favour of these amendments? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 82 were in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 37]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 31... [[Voice from the room: Now the whole...]] Good. Excuse me. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 senators voted, 66 votes against, 14 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law of Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Marshal's Guard Act. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is in print No 720 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Joint Committees, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which, at its meeting on 15 February, discussed the proposals submitted in the course of the debate on 14 February 2018 on the Marshal's Guard Act. The High Senate is ready to accept the proposal contained in the paragraph II, i.e. a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u123	Thank you very much. And I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee, Senator Jerzy Wcisla, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the joint committees. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Creating a uniformed and armed formation from the Marshal's Guard raises the question: why is this formation created, what purpose is it to serve and when, under what circumstances is it to be used? And it's really hard to find those circumstances. Because if there is any real threat, the Senate will most likely ask for help from more professional formations, better prepared for such tasks. In view of this reflection, it is difficult to justify the spending of funds and the creation of such formations. A separate issue is the problem of equal treatment of uniformed services in Poland. And when we hear the PIS senators say that even if they wanted to correct the mistakes they made about customs officers, they can't, I'm very sorry that this reflection didn't accompany you when you actually took the customs officers out of the uniform community. If these amendments are not adopted and now adopted by the Senate, unfortunately, we will have to vote against both laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did the senators of the applicant... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, ladies and gentlemen, please! Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Mr. Senator Piotr Florek, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski and Senator Jerzy Wcisła, who, I understand, has already spoken? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Flork's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted against, 24 votes against, 57 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 39]] In the light of the results of the vote, I declare... that, in the light of the rejection of the bill, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion of the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 54 votes against, 26 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Marshal's Guard Act. Thank you very much. We would like to return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject; it is in print No 721 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u126	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, I ask the High Senate to accept the proposal set out in point II of the table, i.e. to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u127	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u128	I'm on my way, if your marshal will permit, briefly. As this is an integral act related to the previous legislation, for substantive reasons, presented by Senator Wcisła, I support the request and ask the senators to support the motion to reject this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u129	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion by Senators Piotr Florek, Jerzy Wcisła, Jerzy Czerwiński. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on Senator Piotr Flork's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted against, 24 against, 54 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the joint committees to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted, 54 votes against, 25 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law of the Marshal's Guard. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and the Law on the Penal Code. The meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 724 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, to submit a report to the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The joint committees are requesting admission... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] The joint committees shall request that the amendments set out in points 1 and 5 be adopted. In addition, committees shall inform that on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 4 Senator Marek Martynowski's Rules of Procedure changed the content of his proposal, which is contained in section 4 of the summary of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u131	Thank you very much. Would Senator Marek Martynowski still like to speak? [[No.]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendments 1 and 3 aim to ensure that the perpetrator of an offence involving the killing or abuse of an animal may be ordered to prohibit the pursuit of any profession, to conduct any activity and to carry out any activity related to the use of animals or to the impact on them. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 81 votes in favour, no votes against, one abstention. [[Voting No 43]] The amendments have been accepted. Amendment 2 introduces, instead, an optional criminal measure in the form of a prohibition on the pursuit of the profession, conduct of activities and activities related to the use or impact of animals where the perpetrator of an offence involving the killing or abuse of an animal has acted with particular cruelty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 Senators voted, 79 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 44]] I state that the amendment has been accepted. Amendment 4 requires the court to decide whether the animal is lost if the holder is convicted of a violation of the prohibition on the holding of animals. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 Senators voted 80 and no one voted against and two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 45]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 5 makes it clear that the new provisions allowing the enforcement of the ban on the holding of animals and the taking up of certain activities will apply both to the bans already imposed and those which will be imposed upon the entry into force of the novel. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted in favour, 79 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators voted in favour, 79 in favour, no one voted against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Animal Protection Act and the Law on Penal Code. Thank you very much. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation im. Wenceslas Felczak. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 729 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! 2 Joint committees The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Culture and Communications supported all the amendments tabled. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Isn't that enough?]] [[What's the one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u133	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion you submitted proposals by Senator Marek Martynowski and Senator Andrzej Kobiak, and the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union was Senator Alicja Zając. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on Senator Marek Martynowski's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted, 53 votes against, 26 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak. Thank you very much. We return to the discussion of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the death of Father Stanisław Streich. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. The third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 726 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 80 Senators voted 77 against no one 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 49]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 80th anniversary of the death of Father Stanisław Streich. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the agenda of the fifty-sixth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements whose contents cannot be determined or whose delivery by the senator would not be possible within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. If anyone has to leave the room, please, because Senator Jerzy Wcisla is about to make a statement. Quiet in the courtroom, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I make a statement on behalf of Senators Mieczysław Augustyn, Bogdan Borusewicz, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Leszek Czarnobaj, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Piotr Flork, Tomasz Grodzki, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Władysław Komarnicki, Grzegorz Napieralski, Maria Pańczyk-Pozdziej, Aleksandra Pociej, Mark Rocki, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Sławomir Rybicki, Waldemar Sługocki, Grażyna Anna Sztark, Piotr Wach, Jerzyszła, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski. This statement is addressed to the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. Dear Minister, We, the undersigned Senators of the Republic of Poland express outrage and opposition to the use of direct coercion, circumstances of arrest and cuffing Władysław Frasyniuk. Władysław Frasyniuk, honoured with the highest honour of the Republic of Poland, the Order of the White Eagle, by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, is a symbol of the fight against the totalitarian system about the sovereignty of Poland, and in particular the fight against abuse of law and the submission of force services to the political apparatus of power. Recently, he also protested against the methods introduced by the PiS government, without concealing his views, which he described with words: the oppressive power is being fought. Every citizen has the right to do so. The detention action of February 14th at 6:00 a.m. is a symbolic signal that power does not respect civil rights if this threatens the political interests of the governing party. This is a clear signal not only for the opposition of the 1980s, but also for every citizen of the Republic. In the context of omissions in many prosecutorial investigations in scandalous cases related to the harassment and attack of the democratic opposition, we do not accept that this is in line with the principle that every citizen is equal to the law. In the sense of responsibility related to constitutional guarantees of civil rights and freedoms, we ask the Minister and the Prosecutor-General to examine the legal basis of the service's activities and present the results of these studies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u135	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me make two senator statements. I am the first to address Mrs Gertrude Uścińska, President of the Social Insurance Institution. Some time ago I asked the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy whether students from Ukraine who work in Poland for contract-ordering are subject to the law under which employers pay social security contributions for them or not? On 2 February, the Department of Social Insurance of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy wrote back to me as follows: under the Law of 27 July 2015 the law on higher education is a student who is educated in higher education; by higher education he means first degree studies, second degree studies or uniform master's studies conducted by a university authorised to conduct them; when determining the social insurance obligation of a student performing a job under a contract of contract, his nationality or his country of study is irrelevant. In the same letter it is said that, in fact, whether or not someone is a student, it is determined by the Social Insurance Institution. Therefore, my question to the Social Insurance Institution is the following. On the basis of what is this status established and determines that someone is a Ukrainian student working in Poland for contract-ordering? On the basis of Ukrainian documents on the status of a student translated by a sworn translator? Or is it about the fact that the truth of these documents is notarized or that the document stating that someone is a student is confirmed by the right consul from the Polish consulate? Or is it some other form of confirmation of the status of a Ukrainian citizen who works in Poland? Please answer these questions. I'll be joining you in a moment with the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Mr Piotr Gliński, and to the Management Board of the Polish National Foundation. Some time ago we established the Polish National Foundation with a budget of over PLN 200 million, which was to defend the good name of Poland abroad. It seems that all tension in Israeli-Polish relations was an opportunity to defend the good name of Poland. I thought that's why we set up this foundation. I have not seen the activity of the foundation during this crisis and therefore allow me to ask the following questions to the Prime Minister of Glińskie and the Management Board of the Polish National Foundation. What programs have the foundation implemented since its inception? What kind of remuneration has the board taken since he formed himself? What projects the foundation is planning to implement e.g. in 2018 and 2019? Thank you very much. And the answer of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which is attached to my statement, allow me to give you the marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u137	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, On the website of the Government Legislation Centre, a draft law on compensation for some of the damage to natural persons caused by the acquisition of immovable property or movable monuments by the communist authorities after 1944, No UD316, hereinafter referred to as the Large Reprivatization Act was included. According to the published information, the project is currently at an opinion stage. Its uprising is related to the so-called. Warsaw's reprivatization affair. The result is, among others. the establishment and operation of the Verification Commission. However, few people today remember that the direct trigger, the cause of the reprivatization scandal, was an article in the September 2016 Gazeta Wyborcza. Earlier attempts to sound the problem, e.g. by the association of the City is Ours, did not have an appropriate effect. Only that the authors of the article in the Wyborcza Gazeta did not mean to set up a Verification Commission, but to create social pressure precisely for the purpose of adopting a reprivatization law, which also met the claims of Jewish communities. Current media storm related to the law amending inter alia. The law on IPN, which penalizes the public attribute of responsibility to Poland and Poles for Nazi crimes, has a similar source. Under the pretext of defending freedom of speech and freedom of scientific research, Israeli politicians began to criticize the bill. Except it's not about freedom and freedom, it's about money, as always. This law makes it impossible for Poles and Poland to attribute wines which they did not commit and for which they would pay not only morally, but with real money. If it had not entered into force, it would have been possible to accuse Poland and Poles in any way of unfulfilled actions and then ask our country to pay specific payments for them. Add to this what is currently happening in Poland in the United States On the one hand, on the other hand, the seemingly innocent appeal of Congressmen from the anti-Semitism group supporting the Jewish stand against the Polish government and the state; on the other hand, adopted on 12 December of the previous year by the Senate of the United States Act 447, the Act on the reporting obligation on the activities of certain foreign countries with regard to the property of the Holocaust era and related issues. As we read in its text, it can be referred to as fairness for those who have not been compensated to this day. It is therefore a question of including the US state authorities in the process of forcing Poland to satisfy Jewish property claims concerning the so-called. Non-fall-free property. I will take stock of the events following the time: August 2016 - the initiation of the action by publishing an article in the Gazeta Wyborcza. - October 2017 - the so-called project appears. a large reprivatization bill; December 2017 The timing of these events and a clear scenario linking them are visible. It is therefore reasonable to ask: is it not time to withdraw from pushing a harmful reprivatization project, which becomes an excuse for Jewish attacks, whether from the United States or from Israel? Strange and hostile actions of Jewish environments in recent times cannot be explained except by their hope of obtaining large material benefits at the expense of Poland and Poles, also victims of the Second World War, victims of the same German aggressor. Prime Minister, Polish and Poles cannot afford to reprivatise, and we certainly can't afford to give money to Jewish organizations who usurp the right to the so-called. Non-fall-free property. Even the adoption of the reprivatization law in a version limited to present Polish citizens without satisfaction of Jewish claims will do little. Because then the controlled media jazz will begin, political pressure from American and Israeli Jews calling for equality in quotes will begin. . rights in satisfying reprivatisation claims. In this way, the argument of equality of ownership of citizens of the Member States of the European Union will be used by hostile EU environments. The very fact that the topic of reprivatization is being addressed provokes and will provoke the escalation of Jewish demands and their political friends in Poland and abroad. The only way to end this topic is to give up any work on reprivatisation, to withdraw a large reprivatization bill from government work and to arrange for any rules on limitation, claims, sittings, the rigour of final administrative decisions, etc. in order to stabilise ownership relations and avoid future pathologies related to so-called. reprivatization, pathology similar to those of Warsaw. And that is what I call on the Prime Minister to do. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland. In addition to the statement I would like to add, Mrs. Marshal, that I wanted to make this statement at the previous Senate meeting. Unfortunately, I was prevented by your Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. There you go. [[No, not Grabowski. Grabowski's not here.]] Oh, I'm sorry. [[Ambrose.]] Gentlemen, you're a little bit alike. I'm sorry. [[May I?]] Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to Mr Zbigniew Ziobra, Minister of Justice. This is a statement on the conflict of interest arising from the hunting activities of judges. Dear Minister, I am getting signals that many judges are involved in hunting. Judges are members of hunting circles, some even act as presidents in these circles. Thinking is a special hobby I have doubts as to whether it is appropriate for those who act as judge But in addition to ethical issues, there is still a potential conflict of interest involved. Because hunting circles are sued by farmers for compensation for hunting damages, and since active members, even presidents, are judges, farmers receiving compensation are concerned that their cases can be dealt with in a biased way in favour of hunting circles. I know there's been a lot of complaints about that, including. concerning the judges of the Białystok district. I ask the Minister to answer the following questions. Do you see the Minister's threat of conflict of interest in connection with the involvement of judges in hunting circles? Do you see that this activity can have a negative impact on citizens' confidence in the justice system? Are you going to take any legislative or other initiatives to prevent conflict of interest arising from the involvement of judges in hunting circles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-02-15-senat-56-2.u141	Thank you, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[There isn't.]] There are no messages. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fifty-sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The sixth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. Thank you very much. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 17 minutes 34]]
