ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Welcome to the House of Members. You're welcome to take your seats. I am calling for the secretaries of today's proceedings Agata Borowiec, Monika Wielichowska, Piotr Łukasz Babiarz and Krzysztof Truskolas. In the first part of the session, the secretaries will be Agata Borowiec and Piotr Łukasz Babiarz. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Krzysztof Truskolaski. I consider the minutes of the 56th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. High Seym! We are currently listening to a delegation of the Slovak-Polish parliamentary group of the National Council of the Slovak Republic with President Martin Fedor at the head. [[Applause]] I cordially welcome the honored guests, our nearest southern neighbours. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - Report from the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's Draft Law on the ratification of the Doha Amendment to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, drawn up at Kyoto on 11 December 1997, drawn up at the Doha on 8 December 2012, prints No 2136 and 2162, - First reading of the government draft law amending the Penal Code Act and some other laws, print No 2154, - First reading of the government bill amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws, print No 2155, - First reading of the government draft law amending the law on the system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road and certain other laws, print No 2156. At the 44th meeting, the Sejm did not complete the third reading of the government bill amending the Animal Protection Act and the Penal Code Act. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the continuation of the third reading of this draft law. After obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on persons, associations and groups who might be suspected of promoting totalitarian state systems and calling for hatred against national, ethnic, racial, religious differences or because of unrecognizance. The Council of Ministers submitted a bill amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for the homeless, the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws. This is print number 2192. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. The Council of Ministers also submitted a draft law amending the law on government departments. This is print number 2201. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws, - amending the law on micro-organisms and genetically modified organisms and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in no 2203 and 2029 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The committee responsible has submitted a report: - on the parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, - about the government bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the pursuit of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and war cemeteries, the Act on Museums, the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment and the Act on the prohibition of promoting communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The Council of Ministers also submitted a draft law amending the Act on Trading in Financial Instruments and certain other laws. This is print number 2191. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft. At the same time, I inform you that after the Seniors' Convention, I have decided that this item will be considered on the second day of the meeting, which is Friday, as the last. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code, - Right of businessmen, - the Ombudsman of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, - about the Central Register and Information on Business Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur, - the rules governing the participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland, - Provisions introducing the Law on Business Law and other laws relating to business activities, - about the Marshal's Guard, - Provisions introducing the Marshal's Guard Act. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints No 2206, 2187, 2188, 2189, 2190, 2199, 2195 and 2196. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the performance of certain activities of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. This is printing number 2202. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Do I hear an objection? I don't hear any objections. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, opposition to the agenda item was raised as follows: Report by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on: - a parliamentary draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, - a draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. These are prints 2009, 2112 and 2134. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to keep it on the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of keeping the item on the agenda: Report from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on: - a parliamentary draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, - a draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (Prints No. 2009, 2112 and 2134), he will raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 228 voted against - 187, with two abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the proposal to supplement the agenda with a report by the committee on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, print No 2208. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with a point including the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament (prints Nos 2179 and 2208), will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. The vote was 229, against 162, with 27. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and five-minute statements on behalf of the circles in a joint discussion of the committee's reports on draft legislation on business law. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in a joint discussion of the committee's reports on draft laws concerning the Marshal's Guard. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the information of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in discussions on the committee's reports on: - draft resolution concerning the Polish Geographic Society, - a resolution of the Senate on the Act on the performance of certain activities of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I don't hear any objection, I'll understand that the Sejm... [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Objection.]] There's an objection, right? [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I have a formal application.]] Objection or formal application? Objection, objection. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, there you go. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I want to justify it.]] Just tell me to which point and what proposal you're proposing. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, According to Art. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I wanted to ask for a change in the way in which the discussion was conducted at the most important point during this meeting of the Sejm. We are about to discuss the promotion of totalitarian systems in Poland. This topic has basically completely taken over public space in the last few days and everyone's taken over by the pictures we've had the chance to see. Meanwhile, what does the government do, and you and the government have a marshal? We are to talk, but Members have been given limited room for discussion. Because you don't want to discuss it. The modern club had all three questions in this discussion, after a great discussion at the Bureau meeting, because the Marshal's original proposal was two questions per club. [[If you had a bigger club, you'd have more questions. You have to win the election.]] What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen? Questions about the case dropped by the D.A.'s office or questions about why the issues of the Independence March have not been raised until today, and people who have marched with racist slogans on the streets of Warsaw have still not heard accusations? Or are you asking questions about the photos of Mr. Ziobra with Mr. Fisherman? Or is it the silent support of your spokesperson and Vice-Marshal Mrs Mazurek, who supported the actions that took place a few months ago in Radom, where also the case, as I know, has not been resolved to this day? Today you just want to powder the case. We already hear from your politicians that it didn't really happen. [[That's not true.]] So what can we expect? The fact that, ultimately, things will be dropped again. And that's what our consent will never be. [[Touchdown, applause]] Therefore, Mr Marshal, I would like to ask you to change the way in which we are discussing this, to allow Members of the opposition to ask as many questions as they want to ask. Today it is our duty to talk about how to stop fascism in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Rysiek wouldn't have put it better.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u3	As I understand it, the Member has expressed her opposition, but not to the speeches during the debate, i.e. the speeches of clubs and circles, but to the... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Or he's blocking...]] [[What's she doing there, huh?]] Listen to me. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska:...15 minutes of discussion for clubs and positions or...]] But, Commissioner, as if you would be kind enough to listen to me to the end. ...she objected to the determination of the restriction, which is the law of the Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, and what happened, to the conclusion that the number of questions in this point will be 30, after discussion - 33, divided into parities, according to parities for clubs. This is a standard that has often been adopted, ladies and gentlemen, in previous terms. [[It wasn't.]] Therefore, I cannot accept opposition here. I can accept your objection to speeches, five-minute statements for clubs and three-minute statements for wheels. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: 10 minutes.]] So there is an objection and the Member proposes 10 minutes for clubs and 5 minutes for wheels. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: And at least five questions for Members, even for clubs.]] Five minutes for wheels. And that's the kind of objection we can vote on, ladies and gentlemen. Yes. That's the objection. You've heard what the proposal is. I will put to the vote the proposal tabled by the Sejm Bureau. We proceed to the vote on the proposal that the Sejm Bureau has given its opinion, I remind you. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal from the Sejm Bureau would like to raise your hand and press the button. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 417 Members voted. 245 voted against - 166, with six abstentions. The Sejm's proposal was accepted by the Sejm Bureau. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention adopted the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm to consider at its meeting the current information on actions aimed at halting the wave of hatred and attitudes promoting fascism and Nazism, led by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Justice, which was requested by the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, is available in the Sejm Information System. The formal proposal was also submitted by Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club. [[Okay, we're out of here.]] [[He's already retreating.]] The motion is withdrawn. Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u4	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 10.15, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - Legal notice - hour. 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development together with the European Union's Committee on Affairs - at 3 p.m. 11, - Health-- hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Legal notice - hour. 12, - Culture and Media - hour 12.30, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Investigative to examine the regularity and legality of the activities of public bodies and bodies vis-à-vis entities forming part of the Amber Gold Group - hour 13.30, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 3.30 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Senior policy - h.m. 16, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 17, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 17, - Extraordinary deregulation - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 19. Communication on the meetings of the teams on 25 January 2018 The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Mining and Energy Team - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group for: The Future of Education - h.m. 11, - Parliamentary Group for: Motorcyclists and Quads - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Organisation for Health Protection - h.m. 15, - Joint Parliamentary Group meeting. Energy Package for Winter and Parliamentary Renewable Energy Team - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: solving problems of the inhabitants of Poland and Poland - h. 18, - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 18. On 2 February this year. The 29th will be held. pilgrimage of parliamentarians of the Republic of Poland to Jasna Góra. Information on the pilgrimage and recordings at Fr. Piotr Burgonski, pastor of parliamentarians. Thank you. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u5	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. We proceed to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz (print No. 2148). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Dardziński to present the justification for the bill. [[Game in the O.R.]] And, uh, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to invite you to talk to me about the cockroaches. We do not want to disturb Minister Dardzinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a draft law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz. This project is the implementation of the Law and Justice Programme and the exposé of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Its task is to achieve three main objectives. The first is to consolidate the potential of Polish institutes, which support the Polish economy in this context, and enable entrepreneurs to exploit the potential of Polish science to build competitive advantages in the global economy. The second objective is to enable the development of an environment in which it is possible to develop career paths of researchers who are involved in application research, otherwise called applied research or dedicated research, i.e. those that end in implementation. And the third objective is to institutionally strengthen research institutes and enable them to transform so that they can also compete in the acquisition of R &amp; D funds from European projects. The main objective of the bill is the establishment of a network, which will be managed by the Research Network Centre: Łukasiewicz. The Centre will have the status of research institute, research network institute: Łukasiewicz, as will all other research institutes whose legal status will be transformed into research network institute: Łukasiewicz. Here's a quick comment. A new concept for the development of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz has been prepared with a very extensive consideration of the comments of the social partners. From the original version, which provided for the construction of a single organisation, we moved on to the version in which we build the network. This means that in the first case research institutes would lose legal personality, while in the network they retain this subjectivity, only their status and name change. By the way, I would like to mention what kind of adjustments we have made, taking into account social demands. We have taken much more into account, stressed the scientific status of institutes and made it possible to extend the implementation of career paths for employees. We have also extended the scope of research, not only to basic research, i.e. not only to research which is dedicated research. As I mentioned earlier, the law was prepared for almost 2 years in close cooperation with academic communities, Polish entrepreneurs and Polish universities. The project, which was presented to the High House, obtained the far-reaching consent of all these communities as a project that makes it possible in a real way to exploit the potential of Polish science and creates a place that will not only create new technologies but also prepare, educate and attract young, ambitious scientists. In view of the above, I ask the High House to adhere to our project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u7	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on the Government's draft law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, print No. 2148. The draft law provides for the creation of an integrated network of research organisations aimed at achieving their own objectives, whose activities will be coordinated by the central unit of Mon. Łukasiewicz Center. The main objective of this entity's activities will be to carry out research and R &amp; D relevant to the implementation of the economic, scientific, scientific and technological and innovative policies of the country, as well as to transfer knowledge and implement the results of research and development to the economy. The bill responds to the challenge of effective implementation of the objectives of the Responsible Development Strategy by 2020 (with a view to 2030) based on the Polish science and economy. A comprehensive reform of the Polish science system in 2010, which was to introduce a new quality and contribute to an increase in the level of research carried out in research institutes and, above all, to facilitate cooperation of science with industry, has failed because to this day few of these intentions have been achieved. The State's supervision of research institutes so far tended to control the formal correctness of public spending - as a result of research institutes, instead of cooperating with the government on the economic policy pursued and on the direction of the country's economic strategy, they defined for themselves the challenges and directions of development, so their aim was to maximise their own revenues rather than contribute to the development of the Polish economy. Economic policy of the Government of the Republic of Poland adopted in the document: a strategy for responsible development, in short: the SOR, presents very precisely strategic sectors and sectors, with proposed flagship projects, around which public intervention is to focus, and in particular the activities of research institutes. The SOR also identifies the necessary changes to the organisational and legal framework of the innovation system, one of which is the improvement of knowledge transfer mechanisms to the business sector and the creation of a matrix-based network of research centres based on existing research institutes. In view of the necessity to carry out the tasks indicated in the SOR, the government presented in print no. 2148 the project of creating the Łukasiewicz network. The network is intended to be a matrix-based, integrated and target-oriented organisation, created by the inclusion of parts of present-day research institutes with the right potential to achieve the purpose of the network. The network as a structure will have significant autonomy, but it must ensure more effective cooperation between research institutes that will be part of it, including. by harmonising financial management mechanisms, human resources, real estate or intellectual property rights. The network will also allow effective supervision of the activities of the integrated institutes. The network is to be an efficient technological and intellectual public administration, a kind of bridge between science and the economy. For the sake of the development of the Polish economy and the implementation of the strategy for responsible development, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends that the High Sejm adopt a draft law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, print No. 2148, for further proceedings in the Sejm committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u9	Thank you, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u10	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The objective of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz is to conduct applied and industrial research and development, as well as transfer of knowledge and implementation of research results or support the economic policy of the state. In the opinion of the Civic Platform club prepared by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the project has many disadvantages and will generally not serve the development of Polish science or the effective implementation of research results into the economy. It should be noted that the construction of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz storms the existing achievements and scientific status of institutes that will become part of it. After entry into force of the proposed law, these institutions will lose the status of the research unit, international financing, as well as powers, among others. to give degrees to a doctor or a doctor who is habilitated. In addition, there are other arguments demonstrating the weaknesses of this project. Firstly, the project records seek to limit the autonomy of research and science units. The project provides that 38 leading Polish research institutes will be placed under the supervision of one institution - Centrum Łukasiewicz. It will impose research projects on institutes that have worked alone so far. In fact, it will be central management and the State will exercise control over all their activities. Moreover, the management of the new research network will be imposed from the top, which will take away the autonomy of these entities. Secondly, the project deprives the institutes of their existing competence to award degrees and various types of certificates, including in particular international ones. The staff of the institutes, forced into one network, will lose the status of the scientific staff. Thirdly, the draft law questions the future of those research institutes that have not been included in the network, and there are as many as 76 of them. As part of the drafting of the bill, a broad consultation was carried out with all stakeholders, resulting in 164 critical comments. Of the many objections raised, only a few were taken into account. In the course of the consultation, among others, they were accused. centralisation, increased bureaucracy, inappropriate concept, loss of existing achievements, powers and certificates, little chance of synergy in business. Moreover, the absence of competitions for the position of the president of the Centre and the directors of the Network Institutes, which shows that there is no independence and dependence on the Minister of these Institutes. This means centralisation rather than strengthening the subjectivity of these institutes. The establishment of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz is more like a demonstration to demonstrate that the strategy for responsible development by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is being implemented. Only that this implementation is based on sham moves. Instead of doing research, scientists will be engaged in reorganization of the entities in which they work. Is there another way to strengthen these research institutes? It can be said that a further gradual reform of research institutes and a possible combination of units of similar research matter is needed. It seems that the amendment of the Law of 30 April 2010 on Research Institutes would be a much better solution, as indicated in its position by the General Council of Research Institutes. Chapter 8a could be added to the existing provisions, which would enable the Minister, at his request or at the request of the directors of supervised institutes, to set up such institutes. This would definitely be a better solution. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to say that the project contains many flaws, and at this stage it is not possible for the Civic Platform Club to accept it in this form, so at the later stage of the project process we will propose amendments to it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u11	Thank you. Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz,15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u12	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! There is no doubt that this bill will be passed. Members of the Law and Justice will vote in accordance with the directives to be presented to them. On the other hand, it would be good for you to listen at least to some criticisms directed at this law in order to make amends. In general, I would like to say that I am wondering what the minister, the supposed model deregulation, is doing, that he is introducing another research solution, which these researches in a certain level are even more centralized than ever before. Perhaps it is a reflection that the solutions behind which he was walled and criticized in previous legislations did not really meet, how honestly he writes about it in his justification, expectations. But wouldn't it be better if the applicant listened to the clues and the law on research institutes, the one in 2016, improved and the number of these institutes was significantly reduced rather than introducing further legislation? On this occasion, the applicant performs an interesting PR manipulation. It does not mention at all that the amendment introduced by print No 2148 also refers to the 2016 Law on Research Institutes. It refers only to earlier legislation in which the applicant also participated and which was to be exemplary. The 2016 Act is not discussed at all, but in the justification of the present law, the applicant uses almost the same argument that we presented at the time, but this argument is not used to remedy the existing reality, but for its own purposes, which is contrary to the use of phraseology in the justification and the law itself, the strict submission of certain research institutes to the Minister of Science and Higher Education. This is so interesting that research institutes are formally and substantively subject to as many as 16 ministers responsible for specific departments of the national economy. In general, the establishment of the Łukasiewicz network is intended, as is apparent from the Act, to focus the activities of scientific institutes entering the network on efficiency in the form of concrete implementation into the economy, but these institutes are deprived of their powers in the field of doctorisation and habilitation. This is not a bad thing, as the 2016 Law on Research Institutes significantly reduced their scientific rank, even by undermining scientific requirements for the Institute's Director, as well as the Scientific Council, but the adopted solution makes the Institutes equally weak scientific, remaining outside the Łukasiewicz network, still have the right to doctorate and habilitation. Draft Law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz is also in many places contrary to the prepared law on higher education, even with regard to the minimum staff. It follows from the Act that universities working with a networked institute will be able to include employees of the cooperating institute as a minimum. First of all, the new law plans to eliminate the minimum staff, but also the applicant - o tempora, o mores! - has used an interesting solution if this minimum staff is preserved. He calculated that two doctors of the research institute were sufficient for one doctor-habilitated or titled professor employed at a university working with the Institute of the Łukasiewicz network to keep this minimum staff. This bill is generally redundant. And if it is necessary, as the applicants want it, they simply acknowledge that the current model of supervision of individual ministers over their institutes has not been proven and that the money spent on the activities of both ministers and their institutes has been wasted. The applicants throw not stones, but a boulder into the backyard of the government, which has been running research institutes for more than two years. In fact, they are simply writing: so far the supervision of ministers of research institutes was usually reduced to checking the formal correctness of public spending. As a result, the system as a whole has been faced with inefficiencies in the use of material and human resources or duplication of investments and areas of activity. The solution is wrong, for example, because. tax write-offs are not foreseen for revenue from the sale of intellectual property. In conclusion, this legislation is redundant. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's creating another unnecessary law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u13	Thank you very much. You have the floor of Marek Owa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am proud to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government draft law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz. I can honestly say that in part I agree with the argument that was written in the justification of this project, but I have great doubts as to whether the changes proposed by the applicants will lead to the achievement of the objectives pursued. The applicants in the explanatory memorandum stated that the creation of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz is the answer to the challenges facing the Polish economy and science. The establishment of the network is intended to support the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. It seems that the presented diagnosis leaves no illusions. The current situation is unsatisfactory, the achievements of institutes leave much to be desired. The individual successes and effective activities of some institutes do not change this assessment. There are currently 114 research institutes that carry out research in almost all areas of science. The result of this change is better, more effective cooperation between research institutes, among others. better use of resources, employees, finance and real estate. Effectiveness today is not served by very fragmented supervision of research institutes, which is carried out by 16 ministers. The applicants cite a number of arguments to demonstrate the inefficient activities of the institutes. Institutes are unable to achieve economies of scale, resulting in a small number of large and valuable projects. The revenues of research institutes from R &amp; D services, which should be a key aspect of their activities, should be considered unsatisfactory, whereas these revenues are 7%. In the case of 37 research institutes, real estate rental revenues are higher than revenues from the sale of services and 32 institutes have not obtained a single patent. Research institutes are largely not sufficiently competitive at international level. In 2015, 35 of them did not receive any funding from international grants and nine received only small resources from this source. Moreover, the situation in the current perspective under Horizon 2020 is not better. So will the bill submitted by the government change this adverse situation? Do the solutions proposed in the draft law give hope for achieving the objectives? Will the reasoning cited in the explanatory memorandum make it possible to create conditions for the effective operation of institutes? As I have already mentioned, applicants point out that the key elements are support for the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy, as well as the existing strategic sectors and sectors with flagship programmes around which public intervention is to be concentrated. This project is about to strengthen this process. I must say that the analysis of this project does not offer such hope. I've analysed the records, or actually the slides of Prime Minister Morawiecki, I've checked the pillars he's talking about, the flagship projects that are being introduced, I've compared them to the field of activity of the various institutes, and this analysis didn't work out well, Minister. I would like to say that it is difficult to find in the network institutes dealing with medical devices, telemedicine, specialist software, mining systems, high quality food, military systems. Half of the priority sectors are not reflected in the activities of the institutes forming part of the network. What about the other institutes? You are analyzing 114 institutes, while you should do so in relation to the 38 that will go to the new research network. This analysis has not been carried out. It seems that once again, the slides have been unbelievably scattered with reality. We will not, of course, be against this project at this stage, in order to give the Ministry a chance to be open to changes in committees, but today it is difficult to imagine that we will have synergies if only de facto development institutes are introduced into the network. How to achieve synergies e.g. between the Institute of Wood Technology, the Institute of Electronic Materials Technology and the Institute of Mining Machinery? These institutes are extremely scattered, and in addition the powers of the President are gigantic, in particular in the field of property management, and de facto the possibility of their free formation is unlimited, [[♪ The bell ♪]] including sales without the consent of other partners. As I said, the Modern Posel Club does not apply for rejection, but hopes for a major revision of the project during the committee work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u16	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the governmental draft law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, print nr 2148. Ladies and gentlemen! Is it good for Poland to completely centralize it? After all, what you are trying to do today is nothing more than the next stage of the plan written by the Central Committee of the PiS, the plan to control Poland from one street. Centralisation does not always produce good results, and it certainly limits freedom and probably does not serve to strengthen creativity. The planned network is to bring together dozens of existing research institutes and provide scientific support for strategic government programmes. Beautiful words, beautiful assumptions, at least on paper, because once we ask the scientific community, they are not so beautifully evaluated. According to many experienced scientists, after the proposed law, these facilities will be lost, among others. the status of research entities and international financing. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law proposes hierarchicalness, it takes us back many years. I know that PiS in many areas looks at the world the way they looked at it in the Middle Ages. I know there were universities back then, but that doesn't mean that today we have to take everything from the centuries past. Hierarchy is not the only problem. According to this law, some institutes will lose their powers because they will be removed from the National Court Register and re-registered as new entities no longer of a research nature. I understand you're in a hurry, ladies and gentlemen. I understand there's probably a long queue lined up to be the president of the new institution you want to appoint. I'm sure there's no shortage of 20-person councilmen either. Nevertheless, I would appeal for reflection. Is it worth destroying the scientific careers of many specialists for several positions for some Pisiewicz? That's the question I'm asking you, the Deputy Prime Minister, the ethics, the scientists. At the same time, on 1 April 2018, the start date of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, can be regarded as a kind of forecast. It's just that this joke that PiS is preparing for Polish science isn't funny at all. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage, at the first reading stage, we will not, as colleagues have said, ask for the rejection of this proposal, but we will look closely at the work in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u17	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Mrs Zwierzan gave her position in writing. If anyone wants to sign up yet, come on in. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the creation of any research network, the creation of better conditions or conditions for the development of science is very important. What I'm wondering about this project is why this network is called Lukasiewicz. The name of this network, of course, has educational values, but also has very important promotional values, especially for young people. Why is this network not named after Maria Skłodowska - an outstanding Polish scholar, Janusz Groszkowski - the creator of the basics of Polish electronics, as well as Prof. Jan Czochralski, or finally Jack Karpiński, who created a microcomputer 10 years before Bill Gates, was a soldier of the Grey Troops, Stefan Kudelski or even Banach - an outstanding Polish mathematician or Eugeniusz Romer? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the reason that a local scientist, very important, but with medium enough achievements, becomes the patron of such a great scientific network? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u19	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It follows from the justification of the proposed law that one of the objectives of the establishment of the Centre of Łukasiewicz is the separation of the substantive supervision of research institutions between 16 ministers, which now has a negative impact on the ability to conduct a uniform government policy in the area of innovation. And the question, Minister: In view of the above, have the authors of the proposed law taken into account instead of setting up another state institution the concentration of substantive supervision of research institutions in the hands of one minister, e.g. the Minister of Development, bearing in mind, for example, the costs of setting up another state legal person? Next question: In connection with the provisions of the article. 2 (2) 1 of the proposed act Centrum Łukasiewicz, which will be a state legal person appointed for the planning and coordination of research and development, will be subject to the spending of the funds available to the regulations of the Act of 29 January 2004. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u22	High Seym! Minister! I'll have two questions. First of all, the project concerns 38 units. What about individuals who are not under the responsibility of the Minister of Development but who are under the responsibility of other departments? Will there be other networks? We find quite similar institutes in other ministers. Is that what's gonna happen? Another point is that, in principle, the State has not agreed on this project with the General Council of Research Institutes, as evidenced by the findings of the meeting on 23 December which refer to some project 2.0. What kind of project 2.0? Because as far as essentials are concerned, this is about keeping these institutes in the Polish science system. Will that really be the case? Next, there is a question of the subjectivity of these institutes, so that they are not included in the community. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the composition of Centrum Łukasiewicz. These are, like, two fundamental issues that you haven't agreed on. What's gonna happen to it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In the beginning, I would like to say that in these changes, as we look at them closely, it is difficult to see what are the assumptions of the strategy for responsible development. It's gonna be a waste of time, a long time. That's instead of doing research. I have a question: Why are scientific institutes deprived of the right to give degrees? This threatens a negative selection of workers, a reduction in the level of research, and a loss of the scientific achievements that these institutes have. This bill met with a very critical assessment of many scientific communities, universities. How did the government use these comments and conclusions from the consultation because they are extremely important? And I just wanted to ask you what happened to the other institutes that aren't online, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And who gets the money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The basis for the proposed reform of research institutes is the conclusion that the 2010 reform did not fulfil its role and the institutes did not respond to the challenges, for example the expectations facing them in relation to the implementation of the Responsible Development Strategy. And indeed, the abnormality of the existing state was e.g. the fact that other tasks were outlined by the Institutes in the Act, and that another thing was taken into account in their evaluation, which resulted in, for example, a categorization. Project of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz will include 38 institutes at the start. Although it probably accompanies this, as something new, uncertainty and fear, it is a great opportunity for these institutes, perhaps even for those achieving weaker results in parameterization, to become involved in the economic and innovation policy of the country. But the project is accompanied by a threat of worsening the situation of other research institutes, often very good from the scientific and research side, by depriving them of their funding of statutory activities. There's already been ideas, and they've given up on it. This grant is funded so important [[♪ The bell ♪]] preliminary studies preceding the application for serious projects. It raises great concerns. Isn't that something you should give up? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u27	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The draft law does not define institutes included in the expressis verbis network as research units. Perhaps such status can be interpreted from other provisions of this law. I would ask you to make clear to the Minister whether the institutes included in the network are losing this status and, by the way, whether the status of scientific workers is lost by employees of institutes included in the network. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u29	Thank you. Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is: How will the research units of the Research Network be financially supported: Łukasiewicz? Will there be changes in relation to the current situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u31	Thank you. Mrs Jolanta Hibner, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There have been meetings on this issue, among others. The team I'm a member of, and there were talks to make it two terms, possibly an extension to two 5-year term. They are introduced, as it was, 4-year-old, although logic dictates, if there are ten-year strategies, that whoever is leading the strategy can demonstrate that this strategy has been implemented and that it has been effective in this strategy. The second thing is that there are no competitions. This is already a misunderstanding to me. We're back on that political advice. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the place for politicians again. The Council are politicians, not people who should be like the heads of individual institutes. They're supposed to be on this council, they're supposed to show what's on this council... what's supposed to be done in this center. It's just a political body, and this whole center is just so that there's a hat over the institutes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which lose legal personality. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u33	Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u34	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Dear Young People at the Gallery! Doesn't the Minister fear that the Institutes of the Łukasiewicz Network, without the status of scientific units, may lose membership in many research organisations and the possibility of carrying out international projects, including for example. under the Horizon 2020 programme, in which they are present as scientific units? And one more question. Why is Warsaw indicated as the headquarters of the network? Kukiz.15 will submit an amendment so that the seat is located outside Warsaw, where too many central institutions are already located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Cieślinski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The idea of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz is to combine Polish research institutes and coordinate their work by a central body - so-called. Łukasiewicz Center. However, the draft law contains provisions that cause great concern to scientific communities. This concern was also expressed at the Parliamentary Panel meetings. The chemical industry, which I have the honour and pleasure of chairing. These records concern the competence of Centrum Łukasiewicz. According to the idea of the project, this body is set up to plan and coordinate the research work of institutes. However, at another point of the law it is said that the centre will be able to carry out research projects, which is contrary to the main assumptions of the project. Therefore, Minister, will the Centre be able to conduct research projects on its own? If so, why would the Centre take the competence of the Institutes, since the objective of setting up a network is the best possible [[♪ The bell ♪]] Using the research potential of these institutes? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u37	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I ask you the following question. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of the draft law indicated that the network's objectives include, inter alia,: conducting applied and industrial research and development, as well as in justified cases of basic research. What, then, will be these justified cases, and what network authority will decide that the case is justified? Will it be the Council of the Network, or will it be the President, or will it be the Council of the Institute or its Director? I ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u39	Thank you. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What is the purpose of centralising research institutes? Isn't that just pure etatism, a position for one's own, and isn't that a restriction on science? Because science is the basis and strength of innovation, but by depriving institutes of scientific status, leaving only research, we kill ambition in scientists. There will be no need to publish scientific papers, doctorate, habilitation. Will we achieve this goal? Wouldn't it be better to set a strategy, set what goal we want to achieve, and then, thanks to the scientific potential that we have a very large, though dispersed, to achieve the goal? I'll remind you of the famous graphene, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That gave us a chance to be a leader in the world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The presented project is, as you can see, another stage of centralization, centralization, which has already been. This project is presented by the Minister of Science, who, as it turns out, cannot learn from what was in the past at all. And he's from Krakow, which is even more weird, but he is. Well, this centralization, which the Minister of Science, and science shouldn't go into the woods... There was centralization in the commune. What was the effect, we saw. Doesn't this centralization move you, Minister, as a young man who should look to the future, also to think that this is going to be a system that we've already rejected? Think about it, because you're really the man who comes into force, and you're gonna wear that mark. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u43	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u44	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank the government very warmly for this presentation, and for two reasons. First of all, Ignacy Łukasiewicz is a very little-known figure, and this is an outstanding representative of Polish science, pharmacist, inventor of oil applications, founder of the first oil mine, because the next one was created 5 years later in the United States. Not many people know about this. Excellent pharmacist. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, bow down to Ignace Łukasiewicz. It is no longer about the detailed records that are included here, perhaps not always the best, but the goal is very noble. Ladies and gentlemen, Ignacy Łukasiewicz is an outstanding representative of Polish science. He's an outstanding son of Podkarpacie. He was born in Podkarpacie and died in Podkarpacie. [[Mr. President, to you, Professor, these words, not to me.]] I agree with you, sir, I agree with you. I do not agree with my colleague, the Member who questioned this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So accept this project in good faith that it is dedicated to a very noble man, a prominent scientist. This project is valuable for one reason: through this project will go a good transfer of knowledge to industrial centres. That's the point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u46	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, Łukasiewicz is an outstanding figure. I'm surprised some words came out of the speaker's mouth to question it. On the other hand, my dear Minister, from mixing teaspoon teaspoon this tea does not become sweeter. That's how it's gonna be with these institutes. However, this project lacks such bold ideas in order to meet the challenges of the 21st century. So I have the impression that, unfortunately, this reform will bring absolutely nothing in terms of improving quality, because as for the fact that quality needs to be improved on many levels in research institutes, we are all agreed, but here there is no such thing, I would say, a impulse that would increase this quality, also as far as the scientific basis is concerned. Well, that's something you'll have to work on. On the other hand, Minister, I have another question. You mention 367 patents in the explanatory memorandum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in these institutes. I'd like to know how many of them have been commercialized and with what result. And second question: What actions have the various ministries taken over two years to correct the situation in these institutes? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Malik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask the Minister whether it is true that the work of research institutes so far after the reform in 2010 did not play a good role in improving even the so-called ones. Knowledge transfer mechanisms to the business sector have neither produced the expected results in terms of activities for the innovation economy. Is it true that the study carried out in 2016 by the Ministry of Science and Higher Education shows that 114 research institutes have conducted completely inefficient research and science activities for the economy, and therefore the creation of the Research Network: Lukasiewicz can reverse some unfavorable, non-perspective trends for the economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u49	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Mr Piotr Dardziński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start with a little attention to Mr Jarubas, who is probably no longer here and who has been gracious to refer to the proposed date of establishment of the Łukasiewicz network. This is indeed the 1st of April, but Mr Jarubas did not check that this is Easter Sunday, which also has a symbolic dimension in the context of the reform under preparation. [[What is it?]] [[What's that?]] This is the time for the resurrection of Polish science after it was previously reformed. Perhaps this explanation should indeed have been made earlier. [[Well, it's a far-reaching parabola.]] Maybe she's too far gone, just like the point about the joke maybe she was too far gone. Thank you very much for all the votes, especially the critical ones. Some of them, I think, refer to the original version of the project, of which some of you have been gracious to mention. As regards the critical analysis of institutes - here I answer the question of what the 2010 reform has done and the state of the Institutes in 2015, as shown by the analysis presented, as mentioned by the Member, in 2016 - this was very well summarised by Mr Owl, who recalled the OSR analysis, which says that most of the institutes were kept from renting office space. A large number of them have not conducted almost any research, research and development projects at all. Many of them did not have any patents, and in these institutes after 2010 there was a period of pauperisation and wasting rather than developing potential. But what is important and what we have consistently stuck to in our work with our social partners: as to the diagnosis that the potential of research institutes is not properly exploited in Poland, we have universal agreement, both I think, opposition and in a natural way government, as well as above all employees and directors of institutes. Institutes should have better conditions for conducting research dedicated to the economy. First of all, most of the directors of institutes, when the Government of Law and Justice began their term of office, pointed out to the Ministry of Science at numerous conferences that Polish institutes are losing and not using their capabilities, because competitive research networks, building their potential, push us out of the scientific market, and appeal to the Ministry to start working on setting up an institution in the shape of a French or German research network. So all the comments that you have made about centralisation, including those that suggest that we are rebuilding the communist system, have directed you against Europe's most efficient research networks - the French network, and especially the German network - and you have directed all these comments to some of the most technologically developed countries, such as Finland and Denmark, which are Europe's leaders in the creation of knowledge-based companies and are leaders in the exploitation of scientific potential. Why? This is because they conduct coordinated policies using the economies of scale of individual institutes. It was not in Poland, it was missing in Poland. The Institutes also made one very important request concerning the lack of state capacity, the lack of public administration's capacity to define key projects and key areas. Today, the government is changing this situation. The Responsible Development Strategy defines areas that are central to the government and the Ministry of Science... Here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill submitted is prepared by two ministries, by the Minister for Science and Higher Education and, even earlier, by the Minister for Development. This is the best example of eliminating silos in the government and coordinating economic policy and scientific policy. So we respond, firstly, to the request of the institutes themselves to increase, consolidate institutes so that they can compete globally, and secondly, we respond to their request to define precisely what areas will be key to the government and in which areas these institutes should develop their competences. I would like to draw your attention, because with regard to the charge of centralisation, which has appeared in the statements of many ladies and gentlemen, it is important to see the proportion. In the Research Network: Łukasiewicz will find about 8 thousand. employees. Of those 8,000. employees 1,5 thousand. has the status of scientific staff, about 4.5 thousand. they are laboratory staff. It's about $1.5,000, and you're talking about us building a central communist unit? In Polish science 150 thousand work. academic staff. Where's the centralization moment? What do we do? A specialized group of scientists, who are particularly interested in working with the economy, are presenting the framework within which this cooperation can be used effectively. In this sense, if you ask whether these institutes will have the right to doctorate, I answer that this particular request did not raise much doubt in the public consultation. This is one of the points that we have come to as soon as possible simply to an agreement with the social partners. Why? Because in research institutes already today, most researchers working there are primarily focused on doing projects that are technologically advanced and interesting from the point of view of the economy, which does not mean that they do not want to develop their scientific career, but they want to develop it based, symbolically speaking, on implementation rather than on publications. So what does the Research Network: Łukasiewicz build? Research Network: Łukasiewicz differentiates career path systems in Poland. It doesn't centralize them, it just differentiates them. Basic research researchers working on theoretical problems can develop their careers in higher education and in higher education institutions. They can develop them in the PAN institutes. They can also develop them in other research institutes. In the Institutes of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz we will focus on implementation, not theoretical research. This is the consequence of the policy adopted, which was also advocated by the institutes themselves. So we are not dealing with any centralisation within the system and we are not dealing with centralization within the system. The organizational culture, which we proposed in this act, is that Centrum Łukasiewicz is an entity supporting institutes. [[It's a corporate deal.]] She shapes corporate governance. Thank you very much, exactly, for your attention. All your comments about the fact that there is a breach of the autonomy of subordinate entities are inconsistent with the assumptions which are legally described in this law. So how will Łukasiewicz work and why Centrum Łukasiewicz... One of your fellow Members asked that question. If you'll excuse me, I took a quick note, and I don't want to waste any more time searching for those fragments. But of course I will try to answer all the questions. If I missed any of the questions, of course we will answer them in writing. [[Law 2.0.]] Exactly. [[January 23rd meeting.]] How will this corporate governance work in the centre of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz and why will Centrum Łukasiewicz - Mr Łukasiewicz asked me - also have research powers? Centrum Łukasiewicz will also be a research institute, because in the process of commercialising knowledge apart from technology we need knowledge and research on how to commercialize in general. Two examples: we should conduct far-reaching research on how to protect intellectual property, and we should conduct far-reaching research on how to analyze global markets and build business models when it comes to placing our technology and supporting Polish entrepreneurs. If I ask a Member today, who of the Technology Institutes is involved in these areas, if I ask one of the directors whether they are involved in these areas, then the answer is natural to them: This is not our area of competence. We are institutes that deal with robotics, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology. We don't do economic analysis, we don't do marketing analysis, we don't do legal analysis. And in this sense, the centre complements the structure of this system of commercialization of research with competences that are simply not in other institutes. The Centre of Łukasiewicz - I make this declaration publicly - will have no ambition in any way to duplicate the scope of research that exists today in institutes, and the directors of institutes know it. Because the structure is based on autonomous research institutes and an existing centre, in a natural way in the so-called. The matrix management system will be different types of projects. There will be projects to be carried out by individual institutes for which autonomy and decision on how to cooperate, who to cooperate with, to what extent it will belong solely to the Director. They will exist - and it is the network that gives this opportunity - projects that are carried out at the level of the network, i.e. with different institutes. Corporate governance will allow several institutes to carry out one project, and there will be no problem... Today's the problem. Even with who is to be the leader of this project. And the third thing: there will also be projects whose scale will be so large that they will involve the entire network, and then their coordinator will be the centre. So in short, as in the normal corporate governance, the decision structure is diversified. She defines what responsibilities are, as well as responsibilities. So the center will not lead - as it is written in the Act - the current supervision... It means that it will not run the day-to-day management of research projects in individual institutes. It will be a matter of competence of directors and possibly coordinators of interinstitutional projects, i.e. so-called. Project managers. The Centre merely ensures that projects do not duplicate, exclude each other and effectively exploit both the infrastructure potential and the human resources potential. Now, about centralization -- you asked me that -- I don't know if you've noticed that we're in a difficult situation. On the one hand, we are criticized for centralizing, although, as we said, there are only 38. On the number of employees I have shown you that we could really say that we are doing some kind of piloting on how science can function differently than we are building monoculture for the whole scientific community. On the other hand, you say it's not enough, and there's still a bit of a demand somewhere, and the question is, what about research institutes that are off the grid. Now is the question: Is it that we are now diversifying - in our opinion it is good that we are creating various systems - or would you rather we continue to close this system, that is, to make one formula of the institute? Exactly, the research institutes that worked in the current formula will work in the existing formula. And please pay attention to how beautiful it will be: in two years' time we will be able to make a summary of how institutes are developing under the current law on research institutes - most of the country insists on leaving it with small, small corrections - and we will be able to compare with this the effectiveness of managing institutes that are in the Research Network: Łukasiewicz. If it turns out that this model is suitable for economic development, we will be able to scale it into more institutes. We're very wise. How did we select institutes that enter the Research Network: Łukasiewicz? As I mentioned earlier, the law is prepared by two ministries: there is commercialisation of research, the network is intended to serve the economy, so the minister of the economy is involved, and because it is a science area, the minister of science is involved. To all the other ministers who have institutes under their supervision, we have sent a proposal to connect these institutes to the network. The Institutes, in consultation with the supervising ministers, or actually ministers after consulting here, decided themselves whether they were joining institutes on the network, without any, and here somewhere such a formulation, coercion, fell. Even here it was stronger: that it was somehow by force, by force they were incarnated, said Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, by force and by compulsion that scientists and directors were incorporated into the Research Network: Łukasiewicz. I understand rhetoric and metaphoricalism, but the facts were that joining the research network was decided apart from the Minister of Development, the Minister of Energy and the Minister of Digitization. We considered that this is the potential that is sufficient to start supporting projects implemented within the framework of a responsible development strategy. The selection process of institutes was therefore very free, the structure of the management of these institutes is properly in line with corporate governance commonly used in the management of large projects. We're catching up, and we need to do this fast, because we don't have time to catch up with the world in how it reorganizes its structure. We would like to build a third largest research network in Europe so that we can finally start competition for grants and funds from the 2020 horizon and deliver technologies to Polish entrepreneurs. Mr Owa talked about the fact that one does not fit the other, that there is no competence of research institutes in what is included in the SOR. Yes, because we do not centralize, we do not claim that only institutes in the Research Network: Łukasiewicz will implement the SOR. Various institutes will implement the SOR, as well as universities will implement some research areas. Institutes in the Research Network: Łukasiewicz will implement only part of key projects, because they do not build monoculture, they do not build an omnipotent research network. And it's natural. The question of the Member was also very interesting because, when asking what one institute has in common with another institute, he asked according to the classic logic of division of disciplines, division of silos and division of industries. Today we have most of the corporations that are interbranch, we have definitely corporations that are cross-sectoral, and we also have research that is naturally interdisciplinary. You would be surprised at how much these institutes have in common and how sometimes even the names of institutes are confusing about what these institutes do. And I assure you that there will be a huge field of interdisciplinaryness within Lukasiewicz and that these institutes will know how to exploit their potential. Another quite often mentioned charge was the charge... excuse me, a remark concerning the status of research network institutes: Łukasiewicz. In this context, the State was very often using the wording "research entity'. This is an issue that has also taken us a long time in discussions, in consultation with the social partners. The term "research entity' is not a legal formulation; it does not exist in any law. The call not to deprive Łukasiewicz Institutes of the status of a research unit is an appeal which cannot be met because there is no status of a research entity, but there is a status of research institute, which is regulated by the relevant law. In this sense, the Institutes of Łukasiewicz, because they come out of the regime of the Law on Research Institutes, enter into the regime of the Law on Research Network: Łukasiewicz. It could be said otherwise - from the fact that the PAS institutes are not research institutes, it does not appear that they are not scientific bodies. Okay? They are the same scientific units. In this sense, the Research Network: Łukasiewicz... Mr Marchewka was gracious to quote a passage from the article. 1. We could ask ourselves what is an organization that has the following objectives. I quote: The goals of the Network are: 1) conducting applied and industrial research and development and, where appropriate, basic research, including defence (...), where point 2 refers to knowledge transfer and implementation of research and development results. All of Łukasiewicz is a science dedicated to the economy. To answer the question of who will select and who will decide, and why there is a certain reservation in the case of basic research... is this However, the concession is to take into account the environmental comments submitted in the public consultation - we have added basic research in justified cases, they are so-called. basic research dedicated, i.e. we are testing in theory whether something in the future may be the subject of research, which will already be part of implementation research. If by definition, we know from the assumption that the objective of basic research it is not a implementation, it is Łukasiewicz who is not the best place to conduct this type of research, but, as I have shown earlier, there are a lot of these places. In order to reassure you about the scientific status, rights, obligations and powers connected with holidays, for example, - all the existing powers of research staff of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz remains actually in the form that applies to research institutes. On the other hand, the Research Network: Łukasiewicz after the adoption of the law, because this is not possible before its adoption, will be entered into the Polish education and science system in the proper law - either in this law, which is still in force, or in the future law, which will be prepared. You also asked about the fate of research institutes, i.e. those institutes that do not enter the Research Network: Łukasiewicz. In part, I have mentioned that this is a conscious choice, a conscious decision to diversify the situation of institutes. So that after the public consultation, we made adjustments to the project. Some of the comments made by Members concerned the fact that we are taking financing from those institutes that are off-line. The funding of institutes that do not enter the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, remains and will be paid on the existing rules, so nothing changes here. I hope I've gotten back to... There was also the question that the deprivation of this status makes it impossible to apply for international grants. In a natural way, because there is no deprivation of the status of the individual who conducts the research, actually access to grants will be significantly greater thanks to the economies of scale. I also said about the role of the center, I think about degrees and academic titles as well. So let me finally make a brief reference to this - although Mr Rzoniec has already preceded me - why Łukasiewicz. [[I'm here, I'm here.]] Yes, you're an MP. Why Lukasiewicz? I mean, we're all still at school... I had the misfortune of going to communist school, but even in this communist school we were taught that Łukasiewicz was a Polish explorer who was worth bragging about. But I must tell you that the communist school taught Łukasiewicz as if only halfway through, namely that he introduced technologies that allowed the use of oil, made discoveries, oil lamp, end, period. But the most beautiful story of Łukasiewicz begins at this very moment. Because it was not taught in the communist school that Łukasiewicz was a successful entrepreneur, that Łukasiewicz commercialized the technology he invented. Lukasiewicz, as Mr Rzońc mentioned, taught Texas oil workers how to drill and how oil should be processed. Lukasiewicz was then a tycoon in the oil trade in Galicia, because it was naturally a time when Poland did not exist. He produced the best quality distillates, paid his employees the highest rate and had the lowest prices, and made a lot of money, he was a very wealthy person. [[Applause]] And we would very much like the Polish economy to earn money in science and Polish scientists to earn money in science so that they can then... Here is the third part of the answer, why Łukasiewicz. Because Lukasiewicz, after making huge money, was one of the biggest patrons, founded some of the first schools for girls, funded bridges, funded roads, funded social assistance, or was someone who made the invention, commercialized this invention globally, actually created a new business industry, made huge money and was able to share it. And that's why we chose to be patron of Łukasiewicz. We chose to be patron of Łukasiewicz, because he best suits what is included in the plan of responsible development. He answers that science should serve people, including those who cultivate it. And those who cultivate it should benefit from it and be able to share it. Therefore, once again, I ask the High House to favour this law and I hope that it will continue to be proceded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u51	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u52	Please include the following questions in the debate on the proposed Law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, print No 2148. 1. What will the cooperation procedures between institutes look like? 2. Does the project provide for the type of verification, control of the activities of the research network in the framework of cooperation between institutes? 3. Will the institutes be accounted for by their work for the research network? 4. Why will the staff of the research network lose their status and positions as researchers? 5. Why will institutes lose the status of a research unit after this amendment, which will lead to their removal from the National Court Register and prevent international financing?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know why the Government of Law and Justice is being held back by research institutes. You have already introduced a reform involving the exchange of staff of institutes and the selection of directors appointed by the Minister. False information is disseminated, even in this bill, where we read in the explanatory memorandum that the scientific potential of institutes is weak or wasted. As late as last autumn, several directors of research institutes were released in an emergency mode. Was this supposed to pave the way for this bill? Government actions towards research institutes destabilize their position, damage Polish innovation and economy. Is there a need for a new law? Isn't there a chapter on setting up a research network in the regulations of the Research Institutes Act? On what basis was it calculated that the Central Authority of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz will employ nearly 100 people? How much will it cost to create a new unit and operate it? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the government draft law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz. The proposed bill provides for the creation of the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, which is to respond to the challenges facing Polish science and economy when implementing the idea of a new development model established by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. In particular, the draft law establishes the consolidation of research institutes whose main objective will be to carry out priority research from the point of view of state policy. The reform of the Polish science system from 2010 was intended to introduce a new quality and increase the level of research conducted. Over the years, however, it has not been possible to develop an effective model for the functioning of research institutes. The fragmentation of the scientific activities of institutes did not facilitate cooperation with industry, and therefore did not translate into clear benefits for the economy. The current economic policy of the government presented in the Responsible Development Strategy by 2020 clearly identifies the strategic sectors to be addressed by the Polish science. In addition, it creates new external conditions for the activities of research institutes. I believe that the network will ensure better monitoring of activities and effective cooperation between institutes that will be part of it, among others. by harmonising financial mechanisms. I have no doubt that this reform is necessary. Research Network: Łukasiewicz is a project that will enable the implementation of research at the highest level, will allow for their commercialisation and, above all, will allow the transfer of knowledge to the economy. The network created by the legislator is intended to combine science with the economy by creating a real technical and intellectual base. The network, in cooperation with universities, will have an impact on the training of staff needed for the economy. In addition, it will support the State by making projections of trends and effects of technological change that can have a strong impact on society and its development. The network is also intended to support public administration with highly specialised expertise in the area of new technologies. The implementation of the project will make it easier for entrepreneurs to gain access to the results of research and development. This will undoubtedly stimulate Polish science and thus we will be able to use the research potential to expand the Polish economy. I believe that the establishment of the Research Network: Łuksiewicz will affect the construction of a Polish brand recognizable not only in the country but also in the international arena. About Free and Solidarni will support the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u55	The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the Research Network: Łukasiewicz, published in print No. 2148, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration, with a recommendation to submit a report by 16 February 2018. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on government departments (print No 2201). I would like to ask the Secretary of State, the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister of Mr Michał Dworczyk, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft and justification for an important amendment. The draft law amending the law on government departments pursues two important objectives: ordering public spaces and ensuring coordination of activities related to the housing policy of the State, in particular with the This programme, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has repeatedly emphasized, is a prerequisite for successful socio-economic development, which is why the President of the Council of Ministers attaches so much importance to him, so much importance to him. An important social need is to take care of the order and aesthetics of public space. In the current state of law, the aesthetics of public space were not mentioned in the Law on Government Administrations, which caused confusion about the competence of ministers in this area. However, there is a need to step up efforts to ensure space aesthetics in close coordination with other elements of the country's cultural policy. This will be one of the elements of the wider objective of protecting the landscape. In order to strengthen the activities of the Council of Ministers in the field of public space aesthetics, it is proposed to amend the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration. It is proposed to add in Article. 14. 1 to the catalogue of cases falling within heading: culture and the protection of the national heritage of matters relating to participation in shaping the aesthetics of public space in the field of architecture, urban planning and spatial planning. Added article. 33d ww. the law aims to clarify the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers under Article. 148 points 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in the area of housing policy of the State, which is extremely important for socio-economic development, by deciding that it is the President of the Council of Ministers who coordinates the housing policy of the State and controls its implementation. Coordination of housing policy through organisational mechanisms, financial recommendations or necessary legislative changes will enable the government to carry out an important task. The President of the Council of Ministers will exercise this competence by means of tools available in the legal system. We propose that the draft law should enter into force 7 days after the date of publication. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u57	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Edward Sulfur, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u58	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the club Law and Justice I have the honour to present our position towards the government draft law amending the law on the departments of government administration. Today's draft law contains regulations to ensure proper coordination of tasks within the State's housing policy. Housing matters and spatial governance often move our imaginations, and we can even say that we are outraged by the chaos in public space when it comes to housing. The construction of housing and infrastructure in the Departments Act is clearly attributed to the competences of individual ministers. In the current legal state, however, the aesthetics of public space are vaguely defined in the Act, hence the need to amend the Law on the departments of public administration. Moreover, there were many doubts about the assignment of this task to individual ministers. It is therefore proposed in the statutory arrangements that an article should be drawn up. 14 of the Law on Departments add point 14, on the basis of which the Minister of Culture and National Heritage will be responsible for matters concerning the shaping of the aesthetics of public space in the field of architecture, urban planning and spatial planning. The proposed solution aims to improve the state's action in the area of space aesthetics and be part of landscape protection. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing a very irrational development of many attractive sightseeing and culturally attractive spaces. In many places in Poland, apartments, advertisements, towers and other buildings are created, which litter the landscape. This subject is repeatedly mentioned in the public debate and there is a demand for this matter to be regulated. Let us hope that the new powers of the Minister of Culture will help to sort out what the municipalities have not dealt with, as if obliged to conduct spatial policy. The draft law on administrative departments discussed today also proposes a second solution important for the development of housing in Poland. This proposal is to subject the President of the Council of Ministers to the coordination of housing policy and to control the performance of this task directly by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will co-ordinate the "Housing+" programme, which gives this program a very high profile and shows how much we attach importance to its implementation. In this area of housing policy, the United Rights camp has already had experience, but we need to mobilise and carry out these activities efficiently, because this is a priority for the implementation of our programme and the challenges facing our country. Apartment is a dream of many families in Poland, but it cannot be a luxury. It is the basis for the social development of our entire country. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club proposes that the bill submitted be sent directly to the second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u59	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to present my position on printing 2201, the Act amending the Law on Government Administration Departments. Dear Prime Minister, when you announced the reconstruction of the government, we knew that there would probably be a change in the law on guns, but this was not the change we expected. The project presented to us raises two points. The first relates to the relocation of the scheme to the housing + - I understand that, together with the problems relating to the National Property Resources - directly under the Prime Minister. In the current government, we have the largest number of ministers and vice-ministers in history. Does the Prime Minister still have to take on his shoulders, additionally, a very extensive program of living+? After all, that is why government departments are here, so that each minister can be responsible for his or her field. There shouldn't be topics that ministers can't handle, throwing on the Prime Minister's shoulders because he has other responsibilities. It's just a mess of the state. I understand that this has to do with the President's dissatisfaction with the small progress of the Living+ programme. We wish the Prime Minister good luck because we support every programme to increase the availability of apartments. So there's a way to explain this change. But despite our great desire, we cannot understand why you would like to give Deputy Prime Minister Gliński the competence to deal with the aesthetics of public space in terms of architecture, urban planning and spatial planning. I quote: Too bad the Minister of Health or Sport didn't take over. What does the Ministry of Culture have to do with planning, construction and urban planning? I understand that this will result in the transfer of these topics to the Committee on Culture and Media. But does President Raven know that and realise that? Minister Gliński will receive the competences which so far lie in the responsibility of the Minister responsible for construction. He will deal with local development plans, construction and spatial governance. If the Minister is to be involved in shaping public space, maybe the government cares about his decision to build the President's monuments. Lech Kaczyński in this public space. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the irrational amendment of the Law on Government Administrations, which will result in the destruction of the state, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club is requesting that it be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u61	Thank you. Mr Bartosz Józwiak submitted his position to the club in writing. Mr Krzysztof Truskolasna, Moderna.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the priorities of the 2006 government of Jarosław Kaczyński was the construction of 3 million apartments. You have to ask yourself how many of these apartments have been built. The answer is very simple: zero. After taking over the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło announced a more comprehensive housing programme, which also proved to be a fiction and pure calculation aimed at attracting voters. PiS builds Poland with a plus by serving programs to the public with a plus: 500+, The adoption of this law is thus based on the fact that the Prime Minister should take responsibility for the development of the housing programme, indirectly admitting that his predecessor and the Minister of Infrastructure, formerly infrastructure and construction, were simply defeated. That is why Minister Adamczyk was taken away from building supervision. However, the government, which is admitting to disaster by this movement, decided not to dissuade a minister who failed both in infrastructure and construction, and to transfer competences to the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. As announced by the PiS, the first tenants were to move into new apartments in 2017. I would like to remind you that we are currently in 2018. What does the ruling party do? Then what did Prime Minister Szydło and Minister Adamczyk do for two years? It is a pity that Prime Minister Szydło was seen more often at the President of Kaczyński or in Toruń with the Director's father than at the opening of new blocks from the As part of the reconstruction of the government, new departments were established: investment and development, entrepreneurship and technology, as well as infrastructure. Why didn't the Prime Minister decide to entrust building matters to one of these resorts, dissuade Minister Adamczyk, and appoint someone more competent? The establishment of new resorts involves costs. The PiS, which announced the fight against Byzantine splendor, over the past two years only enlarged it. You can also see the trends, the intentions of the President of the Council of Ministers, who wants to accumulate as much as possible the departments of government administration. Prime Minister, the President of the Council of Ministers is primarily to deal with the governance and coordination of the work of the ministers under his authority, not to be additionally the Minister of Construction. So far, all the government's promises, both Prime Minister Szydło and the current President of the Moravian Council of Ministers, should be put on the shelf in the section: fantasy. There is nothing concrete about the noisy announcements. The words of Deputy Minister Smolinski seem puzzling to me, who said that the government would not spend on the housing programme or the money from the budget, and mysteriously and alarmingly for the budget are announcements concerning financial instruments such as bonds, land sales or the establishment of special purpose companies. Simple math. The creation of a new company plus PiS activists are jobs for party activists. Looking at the competence of people in horse studs who destroyed Polish export pride, the proverbial hen abolishing golden eggs, and in the new established body for building apartments, we do not see success in this program. You've been criticizing the program, living for the young, and you're giving money to the program. Turns out you don't have money to live in for the Poles. For this you have them for party propaganda served to us by public television, you have them for generous subsidization of Radio Maryja, you have them for salaries for people sitting in companies of the State Treasury. It is a pity that they are not for those who need them, in this case for Poles, for young Poles who need their first apartment. If the first construction of the apartments had started in early 2018, we would have seen the first apartments only in about 2 or 3 years. At this point, however, it is known that this programme will not start at the beginning of 2018 because such constructions have not started. We are opposed to this law, which is why I am filing a motion on behalf of the Modern to reject this law at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u63	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. If any of you would like to join us, please. I'll close the list after the first question. Question time - 1 minute. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask if, in connection with this bill which is submitted to us, Minister Gliński will be taking care of, in addition to dealing with development plans, construction, spatial governance, also the continuation of work on the Urban and Construction Code. I would also like to ask you if Minister Gliński will also be involved in this spatial governance of the regeneration programmes in the municipalities. Let me remind you that revitalization is not only a renewal of the facade, but above all a social transformation. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u65	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u66	High Seym! The section on shaping the aesthetics of public space in architecture, urban planning and spatial planning is intended to go to the section on culture and the protection of national heritage. There is no doubt that there is a close connection between the state of space and what we generally call the culture of society, but there is also a close connection, for example. with the state of education. And now I am. You do not propose that this issue should be added to the section: education and upbringing. I suppose, first of all, you treat aesthetics in terms of circulation, because aesthetics is a department of philosophy dealing with knowledge, which is probably not the case here, and at the same time you have some tools in the Minister of Culture that would affect the state of space, i.e. the order, the landscape, because these issues have been closely related in the justification. So I would like to ask: What tools are we talking about in the field of competence of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, which are capable of causing the state of order of space and what we call circular aesthetics to be definitely different? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u67	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask why issues, such important issues, so far closely related to construction, namely the shaping of public space aesthetics in architecture, urban planning and spatial planning, fall within the scope of the heading: culture and the protection of national heritage? What is the substance of this decision? Does this mean that the Minister of Construction is restricted? After all, for some time now we have clearly seen a reduction in the competence of this department. Construction, a very important part of the economy, is divided, marginalized, which negatively affects its prestige and results, so later one cannot be surprised that these effects are not present. Please justify these changes. Let me add that spatial planning has always been related to construction and these are inherent functions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u69	Thank you. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Construction is a resort which includes spatial planning, construction process, which includes construction law and supervision of this process, as well as the issue of certificates for construction products. Construction also includes real estate management, revitalization, geodesia and cartography and housing cooperative. Construction is a science department, and engineers, architects, graduate from technical universities, not artistic universities. You have eliminated such an important resort by recklessly dismembering these departments to various ministries. Spatial planning under the supervision of the Minister of Culture is a misunderstanding and absurdity, because spatial planning is an economic strategy of the country and region, not an artist's vision. Lack of understanding, lack of experts among the Prime Minister's advisors is evidently seen in this division. The housing program, on the other hand, is given to the Prime Minister. I understand that it will be implemented without the need to apply the Construction Law and spatial planning. Question: Where are the other departments of the Ministry? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Construction? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u71	Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you about the record itself. I will no longer care about the substantive issues, but as far as the point of shaping aesthetics is concerned, there is such a provision that the Minister of Culture and Heritage will be involved in shaping the aesthetics of public space in the field of architecture, urban planning and spatial planning. What does that mean? It's an inconclusive record. Participation, i.e. Who else is to be considered in this? Because in the explanatory memorandum you write that so far the aesthetics of public space have not been mentioned in the law on government departments. What, then, would this share be? Rather, I would suggest, Minister, to consider perhaps another statement that it is precisely here that the shaping of the aesthetics of public space in the field of architecture should be mentioned, because participation in shaping means that there will be many participants, which means that there will still be a mess. Thank you. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u73	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we want to be effective, we need to manage better. We need an efficient, better organized government for this. That's what Prime Minister Beata Szydło said in an exposé over two years ago, but then I guess we didn't know what those prophetic words would mean. Today we know: this is the current situation, a record number of vice ministers. There are already 100 in the current government. 100 vice-ministers. We would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister about other words that have yet to be spoken in the election campaign. The fact that Law and Justice will employ a minimum, necessary number of officials, that they will end up with bureaucracy and fight it very effectively, and the cheap state that Law and Justice will bring with them. I have a question for you, Deputy Prime Minister: How would your Vice Prime Minister comment on this situation today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u75	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u76	Dear Marshal, There is no prime minister who has submitted a proposal for a law on the departments of state administration, public administration. In this respect, we have a big dilemma, because there should be a law on departments first, and ministers are called, none of the important building problems are solved. We wanted the budget bill primarily to have money for building apartments, and we know how miserable and poorly implemented the program of living +, where on average for one municipality three apartments are built, and the money for young people who want to buy their own apartment ended on the second day of this year. So it's a legislative bubble and its place... Let's not talk about aesthetics here, it's a smokescreen to make [[♪ The bell ♪]] hire new ministers and occupy parliament with things that are irrelevant to Poles. Poles need real work, real real delivery of their needs and building apartments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have talked a lot about the new vision of building apartments, about living+. I think you should have the courage to stand before the High House, especially the young Poles... [[Where's the Prime Minister?]] ...and apologize for the fact that this is your big lie. You are in charge of almost 3 years, and as far as living+ is concerned, the apartments that you gave to the young Poles - zero. Ladies and gentlemen, no apartments. It would be worth mentioning this, because living in 2017 was the most frequently searched word on the Internet. Probably the young Poles were looking for, because unfortunately in reality they could not see anywhere those apartments they were looking for. Fortunately, the Civic Platform government implemented a program that allowed several hundred thousand young families to start and implement... primarily to own their homes. It's time to get to work. This is not the time to draw tables and subsequent charts by Prime Minister Morawiecki. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u79	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In investments - breakdown, in construction - disaster, in housing policy - even greater catastrophe. The platform proposed - continue with the program of living for young people. We proposed an amendment that was 100% increased funds for apartments for young Poles. You rejected that amendment. Today, in connection with the housing disaster, you are throwing the best at this front. The construction department is taking over the prime minister and his deputy, which means it's very bad. And now the question. You're proposing that the President of the Council of Ministers coordinate housing policy. The President of the Council of Ministers will exercise this competence by means of tools available in the legal system - this is a quote from the justification. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What tools are they, Minister? 'Cause it's gonna end in a big total disaster. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u81	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask you kindly to respond to the Secretary of State, the head of the Cabinet of the Prime Minister of Mr Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Referring to Mrs Chmiel's comments, I would like to remind you that the Living+ programme is one of the most important strategic programmes implemented by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. This is the reason for the coordination of this programme directly by the President of the Council of Ministers. However, it should be stressed, as I have already mentioned, that operational activities will be carried out in the Ministry of Investment and Development. In addition, an ancillary body will be set up with the President of the Council of Ministers, in accordance with the rules in force, of course, to assist the Prime Minister in these coordination and monitoring activities. As for the aesthetics of the space that you have been asking about, thank you for this question, because this is a very important area which has so far been very underestimated. He has been underestimated for many years, including, Mrs Citizen's Day. Hence such a new task that we introduce into the Law on Departments. With regard to Mr Truskolaski's statement, I can only say that this statement shows that he has not read this project in detail, nor does he monitor this important programme. At the moment, the activities related to the implementation of the scheme are carried out by a number of government agencies and BGK Real Estate. It must be made clear, and this also refers to the statements and questions of other parliamentarians, that we are catching up today with civilization for many years, including those eight years in which you ruled... [[Three years, zero.]] ...and you've done virtually nothing in this area... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Marshal... ...you didn't do anything. When it comes to precise reading of the project, I urge you to always do so before performing. I would just like to stress that this draft amendment does not provide for the creation of any new resort, nor does it provide for the appointment of any new ministers to deal with the programme. I would like to remind you that the housing+ programme will be coordinated directly by the President of the Council of Ministers. To answer Mr Wilczyński's question, I would like to say that, in the wake of this amendment that we are working on today, a review of the acts of material law is planned and appropriate changes will be made there. Mr Czernow - this statement suggests that the powers of the Minister for Investment and Development are being restricted. I just want to point out that there are no restrictions and changes in this area, but there are added tasks to the cultural department It's about the aesthetics of the space I was talking about that this case has been underestimated so far. The question of Mr Józef Lassota is who the Minister of Culture will work with when it comes to matters related to space aesthetics. Well, it's obvious, with the Minister responsible for construction. Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska's question is addressed to the Prime Minister, so I will not answer it. I repeat, however, that we will not increase the administration in relation to the planned actions. Mr Skowrońsk suggested that new ministers would be appointed in connection with this amendment. There will be absolutely no new secretaries... [[You didn't understand, as usual.]] ...state, Undersecretaries of State. If you have other questions, I would be happy to answer them in writing. And last but not least, Mr Rutnicki's speech. It's important to be clear that the Civic Platform government over the eight years you were in charge... [[300,000. apartments with MDM, and you're zero. Bravo.]] He didn't do anything to promote cheap construction for rent. As you know, unless it's total populism, the investment process takes time. At the end of our term, we will be happy to settle all our electoral promises. If we fail to do something, we'll be honest about it... [[That's a great score. Three years and zero.]] ...and we'll apologize to the Poles for it if we do. But you are the last to have a moral right to persuade us...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u83	No, no, wait, wait. Minister, please don't argue. One second. Wait a minute. Minister, don't argue with Mr Rutnicki. And Mr Rutnicki, if he wants to practice screaming, go to the nearby stadium, for example. Legion, okay? [[I'm a Lech Poznan fan, Mr. Marshal. Don't mess with Legion.]] So how's she gonna play with Lech, okay? If she plays with Lech. Mrs Skowrońska, as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u84	Dear Marshal, Minister, as a corrigendum. You didn't understand what you were saying and what you were asking. I pointed out that you are trying to talk about administrative departments, when you called ministers, and you are not trying to solve problems of Poles. Because 2 days after the start of the year, the program ended, the apartment for young people, means support, and no apartments in the apartment+ mode were built by the state. That's what I'm talking about. And I wish you wouldn't twist my words. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for honesty. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u85	And Mrs Chmiel, in the correction procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u86	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Minister, I have not received an answer to my important questions. Will Minister Gliński, in the light of these records, also take over the work, and continue it, on the Urban and Construction Code? That's once. And two, what will be very important for all municipalities in Poland, especially the smaller ones, the revitalization program? There is very much money from the EU funds from this last hand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u87	You're welcome, Minister Michał Dworczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u88	Thank you very much. If I have not answered any questions yet, I will send you an answer, and we will answer them in writing. [[It's about these legal tools.]] On the other hand, in reply to your reply, I will repeat that, as a result of this amendment, a review of the substantive acts is planned and appropriate changes will be made, and then specific competences will be defined, which will belong to individual ministers. Thank you. [[So that's not an answer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u89	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u90	Dear Marshal, High Seym! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to express my opinion on the draft law on government departments. The applicant's explanatory memorandum states that the project pursues two objectives. The first is the ordering of public spaces and the second is the efficient coordination of measures related to the housing policy of the State. It is not necessary to convince anyone to care for public space's order and aesthetics. However, all you have to do is look around you to conclude that in many Polish cities and towns neither the order nor the aesthetics are not the elements that dominate the surrounding landscape, but, on the contrary, they are very often pushed into an absolute margin. In the view of the applicants, one of the reasons for this is that, in the current legal state, the aesthetics of public space have not been mentioned in the Law on Government Administrations, which has resulted in inconsistencies and ambiguities as to the competence of ministers in this area. In line with the applicant's intention, the proposed project is to remedy this situation and step up actions aimed at ensuring the aesthetics of public space as one of the elements of landscape protection and link them to other elements of the country's cultural policy. To this end, it is proposed, inter alia. adding to the chapter catalogue: culture and the protection of national heritage also issues related to shaping public space aesthetics in architecture, urban planning and spatial planning. Strengthening the efforts of the Council of Ministers will certainly allow for better control in this area, although there is no doubt that administrative control alone will not solve all the problems involved. However, we believe that this is a step in the right direction, which, in conjunction with other actions in the area of widely understood culture, has the chance to improve the current situation. According to the proposed proposal, the amendments also concern the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers, which will enable him to coordinate the State's housing policy and control its organisation. On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I would like to express my support for the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u91	A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block, i.e. at 3 p.m. 14. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on persons, associations and groups who may be suspected of promoting totalitarian state systems and calling for hatred against national, ethnic, racial, religious differences or because of non-denominationality. [[Voice from the room: It was supposed to be a vote.]] I ask the Minister of the Interior and Administration of Mr Joachim Brudziński to present the information. [[But the votes aren't now, Mr. Marshal?]] Voting time at 3 p.m. 14. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to repeat once again from this place, from the meeting room of the Polish Parliament: Zero tolerance. No tolerance for any manifestation of promotion, affirmation, glorification of criminal totalitarian systems. I mean the most bloody for Poles totalitarianism - German Nazism and Soviet communism. I think in this case we have the agreement of the whole political scene that this issue is not subject to any discussion. I hope that there is also no debate on the issue of condemning the recent wave of hatred for Poles due to political differences, which is best illustrated by attacks on Parliamentary offices, mainly from the ruling party, although not only. There have been three such crimes this year. I would ask that in this debate we apply the appropriate measure to the phenomena discussed here. Before I go to the information that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has prepared in connection with the wishes of your parliamentarians, let me make one brief political comment. Well, both German Nazism and Italian fascism have nothing to do with conservative, right-wing values. Although in the case of fascism political scientists dealing with typology of political doctrines, some political scientists believe that it is a hybrid doctrine, i.e. combining certain features and characteristics of the parties definitely left-wing, but, as they show, also able to combine the characteristics of certain right-wing parties, but in the case of Nazism, it is, after all, the honourable state, like the national socialist party of Germany, movements of roots and left-wing character. [[Voice from the room: What does it matter?]] It's a big, because it's a very big logical mistake to identify people or movements that refer to these criminal totalitarians as right-wings or right-wing movements or even the extreme right-wing movement. Conservatism is order and order, not violence, aggression, and contempt for human life. Please also allow me to pay my respects to everyone present in the House of parliamentarians who, after the material issued in TVN24, expressed their clear opposition to this attitude against such attitudes. We are - I want to believe it deeply - on one side. There are many reservations about the quality of the Polish debate, the public debate, but there is no dispute between us on this matter. I want to believe that there will be no dispute between us in this matter. In the Polish Sejm and in Poland there is no place for tolerance towards the attitudes of glorified criminals. All of us - just as we are sitting here in this room, our entire national community, each of us - are to some extent victims of both 20th-century totalitarianisms. In the world - I apologize for such personal attention - there would be no great children of mine, if not for their grandfather, who as a three-year-old with his parents and very many siblings went to the Hell of the concentration camp in Majdanek, miraculously escaped with his life. I'm sure any of us, any of you, could tell a similar story from your family. We are a nation which, at the hands of the German Nazis, I stress, the German Nazis lost 6 million of their citizens, or almost 20%. Of this, 3 million were Jewish. Our compatriots are the largest group among those who helped their Jewish neighbors. Over 6,000. our citizens have medals of the Righteous Among the Nations, although we were the only country, I stress, the only country in Europe in which, for helping older brothers in faith, as the great Pole, our countryman John Paul, described the Jews II, she threatened to die instantly, and the whole family. The Ulm family from Podkarpacie, from Markowa, is the best example and proof of this. That is why Poles - as a nation as cruelly experienced as none of the other European nations - are obliged to respond to behaviours promoting Nazism and anti-Semitism. As Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I require law enforcement authorities to fight these sick, I stress, sick attitudes. I would also like to publicly stress that, as a minister supervising uniform formations, I require similarly strict treatment of communist symbols or praise of the criminal, for example. Stalin or Lenin. I want this message to be clear to all those who support the promotion of such symbols of ideology. The police will respond to any signal of such behaviour in public space. It must be made clear that none of totalitarianism is better than one. I was talking about the victims of the German Nazis, but we should also mention the sufferings of our compatriots at the hands of Soviet communists. After the night of the German occupation, we faced another wave of beastlyness, this time at the hands of Soviet soldiers often, of which we should remember, dressed as uniforms of Polish soldiers, into Polish uniforms. We all remember the suffering and the sacrifice of Polish heroes. They escaped from the hands of some of the beastly oppressors, they were put in the hands of others. They lost their lives in secret murders in mokotov cells, for mokotov prison purposes, or during secret executions in the depths of the cause of death spread throughout the country. We remember about the victim of the life of Inka, Fielddorf, Nila, Witold Pilecki or Rodowicz, the heroic Boy Scout of the War and the Warsaw Uprising, and then tortured and murdered by communists. Ladies and gentlemen, another one - I apologize for this personal reflection - a description made by Melchior Wańkowicz in the Ziel on the crater, a description of the mazura during the name of his daughter Krystyna, a soldier of the group, on the eve of the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising. These are eight couples, 16 young people from the yearbook, from the tribe of Columbus, young people who danced before the uprising, did not know that none of them would survive this uprising. How much as a country today, as a nation, would have been safer, wealthier, if this generation of Columbus had not been murdered first by Nazis, German Nazis, and then by Soviet criminals. [[Voice from the room: Germans.]] Yes, by German criminals, by Germans. Therefore, it is so shocking that today there are people and environments, and even political parties, which despite this sacrifice, the blood of our heroes have no resistance to appeal to the legacy of Soviet communism. It is touching and shocking that some representatives of the so-called. The establishment did not see the obstacles that people derived from the criminal communist military formation should call - attention - people of honor. High Izbo! Despite the necessity - I will stress this - despite the need to clearly condemn such attitudes and repeat once again: zero tolerance for such behaviours, but fortunately these are definitely marginal phenomena. That is why I would like to call on the margin not to make a mass problem. The hysteria, unfortunately also part of the opposition, after the last journalistic material, led to the fact that already today German television announces a public debate about the growing wave of Nazism in Poland, German public television. [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] I'm gonna go to the statistics right now, and they're gonna show that it's not true... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, I absolutely didn't say that. First, however, I would like to appeal, this is my request, my appeal, for a common, cross-party - Mrs President, this is not the fault of the opposition - I appeal for a common, cross-party opposition to slandering Poland. [[Applause]] This - Madam President, allow me, really please - not Poland has a reason to be ashamed. It is not Poland that has reason to be ashamed. [[Game in the O.R.]] You have to be really -- ladies and gentlemen, excuse me, let me -- you have to be really, really sorry that in the Seym I'm gonna use that term, a complete idiot, to dress up in a SS uniform and eat a swastika cake out of waffles in the woods. We'll go after it. We'll be chasing this, High Izbo, but the fact that such creatures must hide in the bushes must hide in the woods is the success of our entire society. [[Voice from the room: Well said.]] [[They were on the March of Independence before.]] Mr... In Germany, a country that caused World War II, but also in other countries with established democracy, neo-Nazis march openly on the streets. In 2016 there were more than 400 neo-Nazi marches in Germany. [[Game in the O.R.]] For example... High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen, really let the Germans handle this, defend themselves, don't let them look for defenders here. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Talk about Poland.]] For example, in August Ub. On the streets of Berlin, they celebrated the anniversary of the death of German criminal Rudolf Hess. [[Talk about Poland.]] They wanted to celebrate the 30th anniversary of his suicide. Another... [[But the Germans are talking about us, and we need to talk about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u93	Excuse me, Minister. Don't yell, don't make it difficult. You'll have time to speak soon enough. [[The voice from the room: The reference point is very important.]] I also ask you not to shout. Minister for the Interior and Administration of Joachim Brudziński: High Izbo! Another example from last year. Nearly 6,000. The Nazis played at a concert in Themar, East Germany. I'm gonna say it again, I'm gonna say it again... [[Voice from the room: The reference point is important.]] ...in Poland such creatures must hide in the woods, in Germany they march through the centre of Berlin. [[Applause]] The opposition and the Brussels elite would like to tell us that we have a problem with Nazism. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You have a problem.]] Let me repeat: in Poland it is a margin and it is a reason for pride for all of us. [[Applause]] High Izbo, if among the 60,000. Patriots will find some provocators with racist slogans, why should we apply collective responsibility? You're accusing the service of not responding. [[Exactly.]] Getting into the crowd could've ended the way you did in your reign. I will remind you of this atmosphere of fear from the marches that took place before the 2015 elections: burned booth under the Russian embassy, destroyed cars, beaten, wounded, destroyed city, officer kicking man in the head. The police have other methods of catching criminals, and now they're using them. Believe me, anyone who violates the law will suffer the consequences. [[Applause]] High Izbo! With regard to these supposedly eight criminals, because that's what they should be called, who, and here the attention, didn't go at the head of this march, got mixed up in the crowd during the march and developed banners with obvious racist slogans, High Izbo, my point is that they should and certainly will be accounted for. Police are on the move, and it's not after the TVN24 broadcast... [[Already before.]] ...they were taken much earlier. [[Applause]] I will be briefing the High House on what action has been taken on this matter and what the consequences will be. In this context, I would like to remind you that on 11 November 2017 there were many events in Warsaw that were protected by the police, and there were no serious threats to public security, and most of the assemblies and all the celebrations were held without incidents. In Warsaw, 6280 police officers took part in the security. In the country of service, more than 300 conventions were kept safe. It was secured by about 13,000. Officers I would like to thank very warmly for their sacrificial service. I also give thanks to my predecessor, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh, my...]] The incidents of this day are under way at this time of procedure, and I can once again assure you that I will make every effort to ensure that this case is monitored and watched by me. [[Bravo, Minister! Don't move back.]] High Izbo! We speak clearly: zero tolerance for promoting Nazism, and not only. If I meet today as a representative of the Government of Law and Justice, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki with allegations that this is the government, whether this political camp provides a protective umbrella over the Nazis or supports anti-Semitics, then I would like to say that this is a charge against the border of absurdity. [[Fisherman and Ziobro.]] High Izbo! Let the enough argument be that the leader of our political camp is a man, is a politician, is the son of the Warsaw insurgent decorated with the order of Virtuti Militari and the son of the Girl Scout Grey Private, the brother of the dead. Lech Kaczyński, President, who, like no other politician after 1989, has done much for Polish-Jewish reconciliation, [[Applause]] for the correction of relations between Poles and Israelis, Jews, therefore this charge is really a charge, as I said, aberracically absurd. [[Desperation.]] It is zero tolerance not only for Nazism, but also for other totalitarians such as communism. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] This is the height of hypocrisy, High Izbo, because it is worth saying that under the rule of our predecessors there was no decisive response to illegal activities such as the occupation and destruction of other people's property under the pretext of creating squats and aggressive interference with legal gatherings. Let us not forget that German Antifa was allowed to run around Warsaw, beating patriots who wanted to celebrate a national holiday. [[Touchdown, applause]] Everyone remembers the blockade of the Independence March in 2011, to which Antifa called. She invited about 80 German citizens to do so. Armed with sticks and batons, they attacked passersby with a Polish flag and policemen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Unbelievable.]] High Izbo! Another example is the defeat of participants of the National Day of Remembrance of Soldiers Cursed in Lublin in 2013. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] It can be presumed that it is the different ointments of the left who are responsible for the destruction of monuments commemorating the armed action of the Polish Underground State during the Second World War. The perpetrators of these acts were never detected or punished by the justice system during the reign of our predecessors. We remember when Roman Dmowski's monument, one of the co-founders of Polish independence, was thrown with fecals and paints. He was called a Polish fascist and an anti-Semitic. Let us move on to further behaviours and attitudes for which I declare zero tolerance on the part of the democratic rule of law, which is Poland today. I would like to raise the question here in the High House: What is more dangerous from the point of view of state security: some idiots in bushes or attacks on parliamentarians' offices and beating and jeering people and preventing cyclical, legal manifestations or gatherings, including religious ones? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You have no shame.]] High Izbo! We have all witnessed an event unheard of in our cultural, civilization and religious circle, when one of the feminist activists interrupted Mass. at St. Anna. Well, such events start to appear unfortunately in Poland. [[This is an outrage.]] After all, we remember when white roses appeared in the hands of some parliamentarians in this House as an expression of solidarity with the police being detained by the so-called representatives. Polish citizens after the reprehensible event of hitting the hero of Adam Borowski's independence opposition during one of the months commemorating the victims of the Smolensk catastrophe. [[And if women were beaten during the Independence March, who would be responsible?]] I will talk about it, Member. [[And about Solidarna Polska, Rybak and about dropping things, about super-dancing, singing?]] I'll talk about it. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me return to the extremely shocking issue of the increase of attacks on the offices of Polish parliamentarians. And it is not only about the Members of the PiS, because it is also about Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska from the Modern Club. During the year, the number of crimes against parliamentarians has almost doubled. In 2016, there were 46, last year - already 86, three happened this year. We have to stop this spiral together. I appreciate such gestures as the gesture of Mr Sławomir Nitras, who personally helped to remove the effects of the attack on the PiS office in Szczecin. [[Applause]] - I appreciate the gesture, sir - but this hypocrisy must be stopped. Neonazists with waffle cake are an image problem - it's an image problem - and here human life is at risk. Unfortunately, there was laughter from the opposition bench in the Seym when Minister Beata Kempa talked about setting her office on fire in Syców, only that several families with children live in this building. If we do not unite in opposition to this wave, it will end just like in Łódź. And let's remind: there, a sick former member of the Civic Platform killed our colleague Mark Rosiak, shouting threats against Jarosław Kaczyński, saying: since I cannot kill Kaczyński. So he killed God's spirit of the guilty man. I urge you to leave the political war where innocent people can die. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to stress that, on my part and on the part of the services under my authority, there will be no consent to such behaviour. Nor will we agree to promote Nazism and communism. Also after the release of this appalling material We weren't passive. The prosecutors and services have taken decisive, rapid and effective action against individuals and organisations. The D.A.'s office has ordered the Internal Security Agency to act on this matter in accordance with its powers. As a result, the first arrests in this case occurred 48 hours after the release of the material. The next arrests took place on Wednesday. The District Attorney's Office in Gliwice is conducting an art investigation. 256 § 1 and 2 of the Penal Code, i.e. public promotion of fascist or other totalitarian state system. Let us also remember that we must move within the framework of the current law. It allows, and well - it allows, and well - it allows, for example, reconnaissance groups in historical uniforms, and the gates left for them are used by real criminals. High Izbo! And here's a concrete example. § 3 of this Article of the Penal Code provides that the possession of totalitarian symbols such as swastika or communist symbols is to be punished, but - note - excluding. If these symbols are for collector's purposes, then it is not punished. It's obvious that every one of those idiots or criminals who think they're Nazis or Communists at the time of police arrest will say that he owns these materials because he's a collector. And here we must be aware of the legal area we are moving in. Imagine this situation: we have a reconstruction of the Battle of Warsaw. Does this mean the police are going to chase reconnaissance men dressed as dwarfs? If we have a reconstruction, I don't know, the Warsaw Uprising, and there will be reconstructors in SS uniforms, Wehrmacht soldiers, the police will chase them? Let us be aware of the laws that move us. We need to change, and even we need to change, that's the law. And I ask all the representatives of all the clubs to work together to change this law, [[Applause]] but in such a way that, as I said before, the police were not obliged to chase history enthusiasts across the streets of Polish cities. [[Valuable reflections.]] High Izbo! The opposition says there are more and more hate crimes. That's not true. And here I'm going to refer to numbers, statistics. As far as hate crimes are concerned, 2015. 791 were found. A year later, the police reported 765 such crimes. It's 0.10%. , not much, but always, the total number of over 778 thousand. All crimes. In 2017, there were 726 of them, a percentage of which was even less, because 0.09% the total number of all crimes last year. I want to stress one thing very strongly: the detection of hate crimes is constantly increasing. In 2015 it was 39.8% , and in 2017 - over 50% already. The category of hate crimes, as I said, includes art. 256 criminal code. These are matters related to the promotion of a fascist or other totalitarian state system. It is clear from the hard data that in 2015. The police conducted 183 cases related to the public promotion of the fascist or other totalitarian state system, in 2016, 125 such cases were carried out, and in 2017 114. Contrary to the claims of some media, these specific figures show that Poland is not flooded by a wave of Nazis. Poland is not flooded by a wave of Nazis. Crimes of hatred are the banner of all crimes, but, as I said at the beginning, there is no permission for them. No tolerance, I say it again. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not what the Members of the opposition say. The problem of neo-Nazi organisations is not a new problem. The Association of Pride and Modernity was not created six months before the production of the material issued in TVN24. This association was registered in 2011 and since 2014 has had the status of a public benefit organisation. To say today that this is a problem that came up under the PiS rule is an obvious lie. Here I will appeal to yesterday's interviews by Mr Boris Budka. In replying to journalists' questions about these dates, he rightly said that you were moving in the area of such legislation, that you did not have the instruments to prevent this association from registering... [[Us or the court? Minister, the court.]] Of course, I'll get to that in a minute, sir. [[No language of aggression, Minister.]] On the other hand, we hear: PiS spreads an umbrella of acceptance or protection over Nazis. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Dismissed the Fisherman's case, Międlar's. Pretensions to Solidarna Polska.]] High Izbo! In the light of the information I have already presented to the High House, it can be said with certainty that despite these absolutely reprehensible and unacceptable attitudes related to the glorification of totalitarianism, Poland is a safe and tolerant country. It is in Western European countries that there are robberies of emigrants, arson centers. In our country, individual cases are publicised, and they happen occasionally. There is no reason to say that there is radicalism, racism or xenophobia in Poland. [[Applause]] Contrary to the hysteria and negative narrative that the opposition is building unjustly, I assure you that Poles feel safe in our country, regardless of whether they live in a big city or in a small village. The research that confirms this, firstly, does not lie, secondly, objectively evaluate the actions of the government for which the safety of Poles is and will be a priority. Nearly 90% of citizens feel safe, which is a record-breaking good result with which it is difficult to discuss. I assure you, this is not a coincidence, not a momentary trend. This is the result of the consistent, systematic and professional work of Polish police officers and other services under the Ministry of Law and Justice, which has been taken care of by the Government of Law and Justice for 2 years - those police officers whose previous coalition has taken away the inhabitants of small towns, eliminating 400 of 800 police stations. [[That's not true.]] [[Voices from the room: True.]] Today, it is clear that a number of our security measures are delivering tangible results. The police are doing their job more effectively and effectively every year. The systematic and consistent work of Polish police officers during the last year resulted in an increase in crime detection. It amounted to more than 72% and compared to 2016 increased by almost 5 percentage points. The police said more than 28,000. less criminal offences than in 2016 These aren't empty numbers. In practice, this means that in 2017 1,5 thousand. Poles have become less victims of robbery, theft and extortion. Over $12,000. Once more, criminals broke into our homes or our shops. In 2017, 1.5 thousand were also stolen. Cars less than in 2016 The highest value in history was the value of assets covered by asset-backed securities. High Izbo! I remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in art. 13 expressly prohibits the existence of political parties and other organisations referring in their programmes to totalitarian methods and practices of Nazism, fascism and communism, as well as those whose programme or activity involves or permits racial and national hatred, the use of violence to gain power or influence state policy. [[How about a quote from Błaszczak?]] The law on associations is constructed - I am now returning to what Mr Budka rightly said - in such a way that associations are subject to the supervision of the old-timers responsible for the seat of the association, and the decision to delegate the association may be given by a court, at the request of the supervisory authority or the prosecutor's office. I stress once again that the power to rule on refusal or prohibition of the association's activities on grounds arising from the Article. The 13 constitutions are, rightly so, only to the courts. On the other hand, the prosecution is already working towards delegating the association of Duma and Modernity. I assure you that this is where the police will support this. We, unlike our predecessors, show that the Polish state works, and the appropriate services immediately take steps to delegalize this association. We will do everything within the limits of the law, although it must be remembered that in liberal democracy the state has no unlimited means of banning association activities. High Izbo! Another thing that I would expect from the Platform is a little bit of honesty, is that you are outraged that the Pride and Modernity Association has reported a collection as part of a public fundraiser. Too bad you don't have the guts to admit that you're the ones who've made revolutionary changes in public gatherings. Michał Boni was the minister who gave us these laws. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Of course.]] [[But they hung him in Katowice.]] According to them, the collection organisation requires only its registration on the collection portal. gov.pl. I repeat once again: At present, the MSWiA does not give any permission to carry out a given public collection. The regulations invented by Mr. Boni have eased the requirements imposed on the organisers. Administrative decisions were issued earlier at public collections. You could verify the applications, request documentation from the organisers. We'll fix what Mr. Boni ruined... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Finally.]] ...if it's the will of the parliamentarians. [[You've got most of it.]] My resort - this was the first decision I made after this information - has prepared a short novel of the collection rules, which will result in the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration having a tool to block the public collection, whose purpose will be contrary to the principles of social coexistence or in violation of an important public interest. [[Applause]] We will reverse the wrong law prepared in the days of our predecessors. High Izbo! We're on. I've already taken action on this. [[Applause]] The opposition claims that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has eliminated the cells responsible for monitoring extreme organisations. That's another lie. All members of the former MMA Human Rights Protection Team were transferred to the Department for the European Migration Network and Anti-Commercial Action. The department works under the direction of the warden, and the former coordinator of the human rights protection team works there as well. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And if they get transferred to the yard, that's okay, too.]] The Department for the European Migration and Anti-trafficking Network continues the human rights protection tasks carried out by the Human Rights Protection Team to date. [[Now he takes care of the refugees.]] Also in police structures there is a network of police representatives for the protection of human rights, a representative of the Chief of Police, as well as its counterparts at the police headquarters and the chief of the voivodship, the Central Police Investigation Office and police schools. Plenipotentiaries deal with the protection of human rights, the performance of tasks and equal treatment and the observance of the principles of professional ethics in the Police. Among the tasks of the Agents are among others. problems in preventing and combating hate crimes. In addition, at each police station and at the capital headquarters there are appointed coordinators to help fight hate crimes. In monthly reports, officers send information to the Criminal Bureau of the Chief Police Command about the initiated and completed preparatory proceedings concerning crimes committed for racist and xenophobic reasons. As part of the monitoring of hate crimes, data are also collected on acts consisting of public promotion of fascist or other totalitarian state system and the provocation to hate against national, ethnic, racial, religious differences or because of non-denominationality, i.e. acts which have been given legal qualifications under Article. 256 § 1 of the Criminal Code. MSWiA coordinates the implementation of a training programme in the Police Training against hate crimes for law enforcement officers. By the end of 2017, almost 100,000 were trained as part of the programme. Officers. Moreover, since 2015, the Police and MSWiA Headquarters has organised workshops to combat crimes committed for racist and xenophobic reasons. They were attended by officers from all the police garrisons who were conducting investigations into hate crimes. The training is also attended by officials of the Internal Security Agency, the Border Guard and the Military Police. In 2017, he was appointed a coordinator at the Cybercrime Bureau to combat hate crimes in cyberspace. Also in the organizational cells responsible for cybercrime, the voivodship commands and the police headquarters appointed coordinators to fight hate crimes, one per voivodship. High Izbo! Just as there is no consent to promoting Nazism, communism or other totalitarianism, there is no consent to fueling hatred because of differences in political beliefs. I've already told you about the attacks on the Parliamentary Offices. I also talked about the assassination of the Łódź law and justice office. It all began with the passive attitude of the then police and law enforcement, when hordes - once again I apologize to the High House for this term - drunken chewers shouted by the former vice-president of the PO Palikot club were aggressive towards the elderly, defenseless people praying under the cross in Kraków Przedmieście. [[Communists and thieves.]] At that time, the spiral of hatred led to dramatic effects. A similar effect can result from the spiral of aggression that we deal with from the losers of our predecessors' elections. [[Stop the boosters.]] Let me remind you from the opposition what the effects of this call for the overthrow of a democratically elected government across the street are. December 2016: Attempted coup, occupation of the legally elected Sejm. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Hasn't Poland ever made a mistake with some banana republic where there are no democratic elections? [[What are you saying?]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] Then there was a series of attacks against the Law and Justice Members' offices. [[You haven't learned anything.]] [[Communists and thieves - a cry of love.]] December 2017: Sebastian K. set fire to the parliamentary office of Minister Beata Kempy. His actions motivated his willingness to influence the work of the government and the Sejm. [[You've said that before.]] There are 15 people, including 6 children, who live in the building where the office is located. Do you have any idea how tragic this could have ended? [[And it's our fault, isn't it?]] Only by means of firefighters and police officers was the fire extinguished. October 2017: An aggressive assailant entered the office of the Member of Law and Justice of Anna Sobecka in Toruń. [[What are you saying?]] Only by staying calm and very quick security intervention did nobody get hurt. November 2017 Unknown perpetrators poured paint on the door to the law and justice office in Świętochłowice, Śląskie Voivodeship. [[You're heating it yourself.]] There were also insulting inscriptions on the door that attacked parliamentarians. [[But did we...]] Attacks on the law and justice office in Szczecin have happened several times. The sign was ripped off, the door was covered in paint. [[What about the MEPs?]] I was also talking about this. I also condemn this, and we will fight violence against the offices of any Member. I mentioned Mrs Kornelia Wróblewska's office. I know that there have been attacks in other opposition clubs' offices as well. [[Voice from the room: But you're only talking about the PiS.]] In this case, the Polish Police will act in the same absolute and the same way. [[Applause]] consistently. [[What about gallows in Katowice?]] High Izbo! You accuse the Polish government of flirting with nationalists. If this is a flirt, then you two were having an affair that [[Applause]] the fruit is Pride and Modernity, which was established in 2011, registered as a public benefit organisation in 2014. [[Minister, don't embarrass yourself.]] An opposition which today has weak and selective memory, I would like to remind you that the Eagle Nest Festival was organized and grew stronger just during your reign. Its first edition took place in 2013. Then there were his next editions. No one from the PO-PSL coalition then... [[The Independence March also organized the Platform.]] ...somehow he wasn't particularly interested in this party. Your coalition did not disturb the symbols commemorating the communist regime for eight years. And it didn't bother me that the retired Esbecs were getting a dozen thousand benefits. You'd rather spend millions on Esbec pensioners than raises for young officers. Thanks to the determination of my predecessor, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak... [[80 million for Rydzyk.]] ...who I'd like to thank once again, [[Applause]] We've changed this pathological situation. We have also introduced laws that purify public space from relics commemorating communist criminals, because their presence promotes the relativization of history. It cannot be that the monuments of Poles who dedicated their lives in the fight against communism stand in the streets bearing communist names. [[We're mostly under attack, not fascists.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, I will repeat - zero tolerance for these behaviors, zero tolerance. Law enforcement, including the police, will be ruthless to such environments. We owe it to our grandparents who witnessed the victims of the criminal systems that tried to destroy our nation. We must take care of the awareness and education of future generations. We must teach them what fascism and communism were, that these systems and criminals such as Hitler and Stalin led Europe to the edge of destruction. I also want to thank you. I have already thanked parliamentarians, all, all parliamentarians, who rightly expressed their outrage after the publication of this material, who, in view of the manifestations of the promotion of totalitarianism, do not go through indifferently. But I would also like to thank the media, both public media and all media, television and radio commercial stations, and journalists of these media, who do not go through indifferently with such phenomena. But in a special way I would like to thank media such as: Television Trwam, Television Republic, Radio Maryja or Radio Wnet, weekly, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Listen to this: The Network of Truths, the Gazeta Poland, the Guest of Things, the Guest of Sundays, but also independent bloggers. [[One homeless guy who gave two cars.]] [[That's the way it is in the Network.]] Also independent bloggers. I would like to express my special thanks to these journalists... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I would like to express my special thanks to those journalists who do not wait many months to alarm the public, but who immediately stigmatise such criminal behaviours or websites on which views on the totalitarian ideologies mentioned by me are promoted. A lot of beautiful initiatives came out of these environments, which commemorate Polish heroes and remind them of their criminals. [[One example.]] You're asking for an example? Enough to mention the last initiative of Redemptorists' fathers with Father Tadeusz Rydzyk at the head - Chapel of Memory, Chapel of Memory... [[Two cars from a homeless guy.]] ...where, listen to you, there are names of Poles who saved their Jewish neighbors and threatened to die for it. [[Voice from the hall: Laugh, laugh.]] Thank you for not stopping in this fight. Thank you to all the journalists of all the media. All of them. [[TVN24, too. You're not gonna get through your throat.]] We have to fight the margin. [[You can't get through TVN24.]] Mrs Krystyno, all media journalists, public and commercial stations, TVN24 journalists also, except that if you have, ladies and gentlemen... [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] ...that information about the violation of the law, it is legally necessary to make it public immediately, not to keep it open. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] cards at the awards and make this information public at a time when it clearly harms Poland. [[Punishment for TVN is necessary.]] [[And you guys are gonna blow it.]] Obviously, this type of information and conquering this drum harms Poland. We have to fight the margin... [[Where were the servants?]] [[The servants didn't see it?]] ...but we can't forget the truth. And the truth is, High Izbo, that Poland is... [[You don't know the truth.]] ...a nation of victims, not perpetrators. [[Applause]] And as long as the Law and Justice rule, we won't let anyone turn us into places with our executioners. Thank you very much, High Izbo. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u94	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. [[Corrigendum.]] Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski is the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice agrees with information, supports information, considers it complete. Ladies and gentlemen, as a complement, I would like to say that yesterday there was a meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, where we also received information about the actions of the prosecutor and the Minister of Home Affairs. In the face of all those who, on the March of Independence, have already spoken about this, the Minister - and in other circumstances have in any way promoted Nazism or fascism, or any other totalitarian system, the police are conducting proceedings, cases have been addressed to the prosecutor's office. I want to make this very clear. In the face of those people who have committed to promoting Nazism recently and earlier, the police have referred matters to the prosecutor's office. Yesterday, the D.A. made it very clear that these people were being prosecuted. So what the Minister said: zero tolerance for this type of behavior. It's obvious. I think we all agree in this House. That is why I am very surprised at all the voices I have heard here, sitting in the benches of the minister, when he spoke about the Law and Justice, that you have the courage in any way to accuse that there is tolerance to fascism, Nazism or communism from the Government of Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: It is.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this Law and Justice is a formation that is built on the legacy of the rejection of fascism and communism. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Law and Justice flirts with Fisherman.]] It was Lech Kaczyński who initiated the Warsaw Uprising Museum. [[You patrons are patrons.]] They are colleagues from Law and Justice - the Minister of Culture sits here - they initiated the creation of the Ulm Museum, who gave their lives for their Jewish neighbors. [[Applause]] This Law and Justice is deeply embedded in the most beautiful Polish tradition of rejecting fascism, communism and fighting these... [[Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Piotr Rybak, how is he? Explain yourself.]] ...Satanistic, monstrous phenomena that were in the 20th century. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Explain this.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] You will have time, my fellow Member, to say yours. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But explain yourself.]] Ladies and gentlemen, referring to the material on TVN - if we look closely at this material, we can see that these idiots, these Nazi Germans who were shown there, or those who raise this type of ideology in Poland, are absolutely marginalized. They had to hide in the bushes, in the woods with this flag, no one wanted to bake this cake, so much so that they had to arrange a swastika of waffles - out of waffles - and dig in there. It's a good sign of Polish society... [[The voice from the room: Amazing!]] ...because there is no consent in Poland... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Embarrassing.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, how do you behave?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u97	You'll have time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u98	If anybody's not interested, I'm gonna need you in the cockroaches.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u99	In Poland there is no consent, in the Polish society there is no consent to such behaviour, in the Polish government and in parliament too. I would like to tell you that today throwing such slogans, that here in Poland there is a wave of Nazism or fascism, is disgraceful towards the Polish nation, which in its vast, overwhelming majority rejects these ideologies. [[Voice from the room: Because they're traitors. To harm Poland.]] He's rejecting these ideologies. You guys are so loud, you're against hate? And I would like to ask, where were your screams and where was your holy outrage, when one of the citizens of the Republic of Poland under the Sejm during the manifestation to the journalist of the Polish Television referred to the term "K," which the word should not be here... [[And what did the president say?]] [[It's a voice from the Kulson room, isn't it?]] ...and the second on this manifestation... [[Sit down, Kulson. That's what happened.]] ...was paying attention: I have more respect... [[For the president, please apologize.]] I'll quote this citizen. If you don't know, buddy, you're still shouting, I'm going to quote this citizen of the Republic of Poland: I have more respect for k... from the lighthouse than for you. To the TVP reporter. Where were your press conferences? [[Where's the president?]] Where was your holy cry? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Where's the president?]] And go on. His colleague, also from the Polish Nationals: At least that one knows what's going on, and you're sold for nothing. [[Sit down, Kulson.]] He turned to the TVP reporter. Where were your press conferences? Where was your holy outrage? Ladies and gentlemen, Law and Justice will never, never tolerate and tolerate behavior... [[Voice from the room: About.]] Fascist, Nazi, communist. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] We've been... [[Voice from the room: Repeat ten more times, you'll still lie.]] ...we've put in place a law on decommunization of the streets. And what happened in Warsaw, what resistance was there in changing the names of those streets that glorified the Nazi... communist system? [[It's the nazis who are dynamite.]] Why are you doing this? Shame on you. Thank you very much. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u100	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u101	Thank you, Marshal. Hello, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this debate about? [[Voice from the hall: Don't yell, don't yell.]] Is this debate, as Minister Brudziński would like, about a couple of people, crazy people who dressed up in SS uniforms and fly in the woods? No. This debate is not about this. This debate is about the politicians who let these people into the salons. [[Applause]] Because these people... This is where the journalists should be thanked. Journalists didn't hide it. If it hadn't been for the journalists, Minister, it would have been about the Wrocław police station and we would have never known about this case. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And you're chasing journalists for finding out about it. Thank you for your disclosure. Reveal, no matter what authority it may be, disclose this information. Parliamentarians thank you for that. This debate is about the politicians who pulled these people out of the bushes, pulled them out of the woods, put them on the market in Katowice and let them in there by the television cameras... [[And a police assist.]] ...in a symbolic way to hang your political opponents, [[Applause]] about the politicians who allowed and the police stood and did nothing when the same people burned Jews symbolically in Wrocław. That's what this debate is about, these people. They're not in the bushes. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] Same people... [[Yes, sir.]] ...it especially hurt me, in the Castle Square in Warsaw with fascist gestures. The Lord thanked his predecessor, who said: margin margins. No, the Castle Square in Warsaw is not a margin of margins and no one has the right to high up there. [[Applause]] And the Minister of National Defence has a duty to respond. Art. 13 Constitution, Minister: The existence of political parties is forbidden... [[Voice from the room: Lying everything.]] ...the existence of political parties whose programme or activity involves or permits racial and national hatred, violence to gain power or influence state policy is prohibited. Racing racism to gain power is forbidden in the Polish constitution. [[Applause]] [[Talk to us.]] And the problem is that you're talking -- I'll tell you about you, Mr Mosiński -- Minister, you're aligning communism with fascism. And you'd be right if it weren't for the fact that you didn't see fascism, and you gave us the definition of a communist in December 2015, [[Applause]] When you called Kicker... [[Yes, sir.]] ...fascist, Schetina - fascist, Gasiuk-Pihowicz and the whole opposition you called communists. Yes, you called us all communists. And the problem is... [[The voice from the room: The problem is you.]] ...that you want to fight communism - you say it here, and you see the Communists here. [[Go fix yourself.]] In December 2015, not in bushes, but together with Kaczyński you said this at the Constitutional Tribunal in Warsaw - in Warsaw. [[Applause]] Politicians who refer to racism in order to gain power should be posted in Poland. And that's what this debate is about. [[But you legalized it.]] So the politician who says: There are already signs of very dangerous diseases - cholera in the Greek islands, dysentery in Vienna, various types of parasites and protozoans in organisms... [[Voice from the hall: What, because he told the truth?]] You were talking about the Polish-Jewish agreement. You were talking about the Polish-Jewish agreement. [[Voice from the room: It's uncomfortable.]] With protozoans, with parasites agreement of Poles. That's your language. Mr. Mosiński, who's getting active here - you've been gracious... [[Tigers.]] ...in the address of Mr Szejnfeld, say yes: Szejnfeld, kaliski jew, and Kuczyński also kaliski jew... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...as opposed to Smolar, who is a full-time Jew to you. [[Applause]] This is the language that caused... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] You should be decommissioned. You said about your friend in the sejm, "Just look at your scratches, your complexion." It's obvious you're a mind-sick, Arab, camel head. You're a quote, Mr. Brudziński. This is a law and justice policy. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Marshal Mazurek, you understand the attitude of people who dig people in Radom. And Mr. Friday? Mr Pięta, who says: God, honor, homeland, and the rest - get out of our fairy tale. And if you don't go out, Czarnecki's gonna say moneymakers. In Europe. Then you're surprised the media's writing. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] You say the German media are writing. That's what he says in Europe. And once we track down the Volksdeutschs and the goldsmiths, what she's gonna do with them, she's gonna tell Mrs. Kołakowska from the PiS, she's gonna shave her head off. [[Applause]] [[There's no need to trace it. It's full.]] And Mrs Mateusiak will deport them. You know what? This is where we have to ask Jan Olszewski today. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u102	Mr President, your time is running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u103	Jaka Poland - whether democratic Poland, respecting others, respecting minorities, or nationalist Poland, which is proposed to us... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Xenophobic.]] [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Bravo, Sławek!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u104	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Jakubiak. Mr Brudziński, just a moment, Mr Brudziński. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u105	Your Marshal, motion. I just wanted to let you know that I'm making a motion on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to reject this information. Because it was information. not about and showed the powerlessness of the government in the fight against fascism. I'm filing a motion on behalf of the Platform Club to reject this information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u106	Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I will reiterate my really hot and cordial request that this debate... [[Mr. Mosiński.]] ...has a substantive character and one that... [[But she did.]] High Izbo! Just now from this speaker from Mr Sławomir Nitras's mouth - I put it on the back of his uproar and hyperactivity - words fell out, put them in my mouth, called my name on words... [[Communists and thieves.]] ...who I've never said in my life as a live one. Mr Schetyn, head of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, please examine the transcript, the statements of Mr Nitras, and the apology, because he has inserted my name and put it together with words that have never fallen. [[Mosiński. He's gonna straighten it out.]] Good. I would like to take this opportunity to make it very clear: it didn't even cross my mind. As I consider it to be an aberration from the limit of total departure, the statement that the Law and Justice that we create a protective umbrella Whether we're protecting Nazis or fascists, just as with the limits of absurdity and complete departure, it would be a statement to me that I don't know... Because Mr Nitras said that I spoke to Mrs Kopacz, Mr Gasiuk-Pihowicz and other politicians that they were Communists. Ladies and gentlemen, as I am livingly admitting that such words from my mouth have been quoted as a quote to the plea which was made on the occasion of other manifestations, but, ladies and gentlemen, admit, in this manifestation under the Constitutional Tribunal... [[It wasn't in the woods.]] ...there weren't politicians on the Civic Platform, just my friends and my colleagues... [[They were.]] ...law and justice. It was our march on December 13th. So if I stuck to that argument, who would I call it? [[To Piotrowicz...]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[So to Peterovich it was.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may this laughter that has appeared here be the best response to such aberrant accusations that come from this speaker. But because we have a problem, we have an image problem, we have a problem as a nation, as a society... [[Voice from the hall: Here, you have.]] ...with marginal groups, perhaps it would be better for us to lean together as the Sejm on these proposals that we make - for example, on this proposal to amend the Public Collections Act - to give instruments to the Polish Police, the Internal Security Agency, the D.A.'s office... [[Voice from the room: Putting money to the left.]] ...with the appearances of breaking art. 13 Constitutions indeed fight. Or let us make such a theatre, and let the world be so informed that Poles are a nation in which Nazism and fascism spread. Ladies and gentlemen, choose. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: The instruments are, only you do not want to apply them.]] [[You want to blackmail us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u108	Thank you very much. You're welcome... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Do it at a different time. [[But he said yes, but he said he wanted to be corrected.]] You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal called me. I wanted to apologize because he's right about something else.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u109	I'm sorry. If I have assigned the words of Mr Mosiński to Minister Brudziński, I apologize for that very much to Mr Brudziński. At the same time, I was hoping that he would react to his colleague's words while he was thundering from the platform. [[Voice from the hall: Quote.]] What I'm trying to say is that your words...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u110	Mr President, you wanted to apologize and you did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u111	...the communists didn't fall in the woods, they fell in the center of Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u112	Mr Jakubiak, I would like to ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! It's the first time today. Happy birthday. Good luck.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u115	It's called culture, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] I would like to say, however, that I was hoping that there would be a discussion here, and it is very serious about this, because the subject is not political, in part social, seems to be. Minister said in his report that tomorrow German television will debate the situation in Poland in relation to the Nazism that is spreading in Poland, and you say: talk about Poland. Excuse me, what were you talking about? Don't you know where Poland is? [[Applause]] In Germany they have no moral right to talk about Poland at all. They are the ones who caused the hecatomb of the Polish people, they keep teaching us, and you applaud them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Your Russians will help them.]] They said: Polish death camps. There's a court order. So far they have not apologized, and tomorrow they want to debate Nazism in Poland. Insolence. [[Applause]] [[You sound like Winnicki.]] [[Don't yell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I never imagined that this House would have to discuss what Nazi Germany was, what World War II was, whether Poland should be reparations of war or not. I think that the parliamentarians of the Civic Platform should understand that they are parliamentarians from the Polish people, that they are chosen by the Polish people. It is in your interest to act for the Polish people. For God's sake, get it over with. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: The worse, the better.]] Ladies and gentlemen, no wonder a couple of clowns... [[Clowns.]] ...doesn't know what Nazism is, since Polish education has been missing the history of World War II for a few years now. [[Applause]] For years you have marginalized World War II in the history of Polish youth. [[I'm afraid so.]] And what I'm saying is that we have to stand firm against it, that we have to go back to World War II and literally pass on who, who, who, like... [[There's always been a reason to come back.]] ...and why he participated in World War II. The Kukiz-15 still indicates, and here unfortunately the coalition of the PO and the Modern... [[Andruszkiewicz and Winnicki are your fellow Members.]] ...sorry, and PiS... [[You brought the nationalists into the Sejm.]] ...about the role of Polish flagship in World War II, flagship in the history of World War II. We submitted a project to add to communism and Nazism also flagship. It is about chasing or penalizing flagism as one of totalitarian systems, which led to hundreds of thousands of murders on Polish citizens. Today at the hour. 19 we'll talk about this. To you, the Civic Platform, we say: Checking. We'll see how you vote. [[Applause]] Polish law prohibits the promotion of fascism, Nazism, communism and, we hope, flagship. What we're trying to say is that it's publicized. Is it okay to do that in private? Consider this. Private promotion of these systems should also be punished. [[And where is Mr Winnicki?]] Kukiz.15 is in favour of this. With all determination to those who have doubts about what happened in those bushes, I would like to say that the SS Galizien, if they had a pole with a trident... [[But what are you talking about?]] Does this mean that they could be fooling around in these woods because they were from the SS Galizien? No, flagship must be pursued as well as Waffen SS and other Nazi organizations. This must not be promoted in any way. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Where's Winnicki?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we want to make it clear that Poland is not a country in which Nazi theories are widely promoted on the streets of cities and villages. I'm saying this to the Germans now. The problem is you, not us. With us, he's being shown and held for a few months... Here is an answer for the PO Member on gallows. They're the same people. If in May or April 2016, their actions in the forest and the prosecution took appropriate action, there would be no gallows. It's just the facts about crime that need to be revealed. That's it, period. [[Applause]] [[And Winnicki doesn't enter the Sejm. Shame on you.]] Ma'am, I would answer that question, but maybe after, okay? Mr. Winnicki is sitting here, you'll answer the question. [[No, go ahead.]] As far as the promotion of flagship, communism and Nazism is concerned, let me put it this way: you promote, you go to prison. That's it, period. [[Applause]] [[Or you put it on the election list.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The PiS will arrest the ones they've created before. PiS has a policy that first creates a problem and then pretends to solve it. But the cost of this policy is very high. The image in the world, intolerance, xenophobia, aggression on the streets - all this is the result of such a policy. [[Voice from the hall: It's been for many years.]] It is worth noting that patriotism has nothing to do with nationalism. It's worth redefining. PiS has been practicing a policy of flirting with nationalists for years, allowing them to behave, what's more, consent. It is not a coincidence that matters related to racism and anti-Semitism, e.g. the case of Fr. Meatloaf. [[Voice from the Chamber: Madame, you must not lie.]] It is not a coincidence that the application for a reduction in the anti-Semitism act is about a Jew's dummy, in the performance of Mr.Rybak, a prosecutor under the direction of Zbigniew Ziobra, the same one who is at a party with the same Fisherman. It is not a coincidence that your current Marshal Mazurek, as a spokesman for the government, says that she condemns, but understands the ONR-men who beat the representative of the CODE. It is no coincidence that Minister Błaszczak pretends not to see racist inscriptions on the March of Independence. It's not all a coincidence. You spread hatred, you minimize the problem, you feed the monster that's grown up right now. [[Voice from the Chamber: The Member is lying.]] And right now you're full of hypocrisy pretending you're trying to fight it. You're the ones who built it, and in a country so experienced by World War II. It's a shame. [[Voice from the hall: And by the communists.]] [[Such words are a disgrace, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u118	Thank you, Member. A little correction. As you say, I would like to remind you that, after all, the government spokesperson was never me and I'm not. Mr Szłapka z Modernej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yeah, idiots are in every society, and it's nobody's fault. If idiots become dangerous to the safety of citizens, the state should respond decisively and unambiguously and do so. It's now. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] On the other hand, it is absolutely a crime to abandon the cynical use of these idiots for their own political purposes, which I believe the politicians of Law and Justice are doing. And I am accusing law and justice politicians of using such extreme attitudes for their own political purposes. I accuse law and justice politicians of allowing extreme organisations to act and accuse law and justice politicians of supporting these organisations. [[Voice from the room: Do not accuse or lie.]] I have proof of that. Minister! You shouldn't explain yourself here to the High House, but your predecessor - you thanked him - because he was your predecessor, Minister Błaszczak pretended not to see racist banners and racist slogans on the March of Independence. [[That's a lie! The police responded, and they're at the D.A.'s office right away.]] It was your predecessor who didn't respond to the pseudo-kibbit scheme. [[Voice from the Chamber: But why are you lying, sir? Tell me, but don't lie. People are listening.]] It was your predecessor who didn't react to hanging the images of the members of the gallows. [[That's a lie, too.]] And it was your predecessor who did not secure visits of the high-risk group, i.e. kibola, on a pilgrimage in Częstochowa. [[But why lie like that?]] But that's not even the worst part. You, Minister, should grab your collar and bring it here before the High House of Minister Ziobra, because he is one of the most responsible for all this. There are concrete examples: the termination of the investigation into Justyna Helcyk, the head of the Lower Silesian ONR, the withdrawal of the charges against Jack Miedlar, the termination of the proceedings concerning Jack Miedlar or the termination of the investigation in Limanowa, where Swastika was burned during the Night, and the prosecution claimed it was a symbol of happiness. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] The D.A. didn't do anything about the Fisherman case either. Minister! These are your party buddies. Minister Ziobro and Minister Jak and Mr Rybak performed at conventions and then the prosecutor's office led by Mr Ziobro withdrew or asked for a reduction in the sentence for him. Isn't it the case that the leader of Duma and Modernity Mateusz S. was convicted in the first instance by a court order and after his intervention in the prosecutor's office in Katowice ordered the prosecutor's office in Wodzisław to withdraw the indictment against him? Isn't that the promotion of such attitudes, or isn't that the promotion of such attitudes? That's exactly what you're doing. A few days ago, the head of Duma and Modernity bragged about the fact that after his intervention the prosecution dropped the charges, and then he does this masquerade, he's an idiot, and he's doing this masquerade in the woods. Is it normal that during the Legion game there is a banner: CODE, Modern, Gazeta Wyborcza and other whores - for you there will be no whistles, there will be gallows, and your fellow Member Jan Shewczak says: it is worth reading the banners at the Legion stadium, especially the one on last Sunday? You support these environments as well as your fellow Member [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bartłomiej Wróblewski, who paid for the ONR bus who came to the Independence March. You're supporting it. Whoever's blowing the wind, he's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u120	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Ms Urszula Pasławska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u121	Dear Marshal! Minister! Not words, but actions will testify to the serious treatment of this problem by the Polish government. We expect concrete action from the Polish government on the problem of neophasism in Poland. Since the broadcast of the shocking report on TVN, we have been constantly hearing from the politicians of Law and Justice the words of outrage that fascists will be brought to justice, that organizations should be eliminated, and that these words are not followed by any acts. Polish neo-fascists in the Polish state are practically impunity. Yesterday, Hitler's chief birthday organizers and the head of Duma and Modernity, together with two colleagues, left the jail. As soon as emotions fall, the case will most likely be dropped by the prosecutor's office under the government, as many times have been with cases where ONR activists are responsible. It is simply a good climate for neophasism in Poland. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] [[What are you saying? A good climate for fascism?]] Of course, neo-fascists are, have been operating in Poland for more than 2 years, but we have the overwhelming impression that in those days they just got up from their knees. The government fights communism with laws, decommunizes streets, lowers pensions for militiamen from the Polish People's Republic, and with its statements it very often relativizes fascism. Meanwhile, these are two equally criminal ideologies, obverses and reverses of the same coin of totalitarianism. It is very sad that often young, uneducated people are fascinated by Hitler. Here we have to think about how to punish the leaders of these organizations, to get young people out of this swamp, because they probably do not know that the fascists in Poland killed 6 million people, it is more than 20% of the population. [[Why limit history lessons?]] As Stanisław Mrożek wrote, the crowds of individuals are looking for a prophet, but most often they find the Führer. [[Why did your government reduce the number of history lessons?]] Because how do you understand the neglect of neofascist attitudes by the Minister of Home Affairs? By doing so, hate demons are awakening, destroying social capital. In the absence of alien enemies, the hatred of the neophasism sympathizers turns to his own countrymen. Recently, sympathizers of nationalism destroyed the facade of the Evangelical Church in Warmia and Mazury in Pisz, painting obscene drawings, Celtic cross and writing: Poland for Poles. Recently in Warsaw similar passwords and images appeared in a café run by people with disabilities. If the government continues to ignore the neofascists, they will go further in their hatred, and all Poles will pay for their actions. I have the overwhelming impression that fascism has become a Polish export commodity today. Yesterday the media heard that in Slovakia our compatriot with a swastika tattooed on his back was screaming Heil Hitler!, in public places. Slovak police explained that in Poland such symbols and gestures are allowed. Not long ago the whole world was surrounded by photographs of Polish neo-Nazis from the March of Independence. Do you really want this to become our brand? For wearing a Che Guevara T-shirt, it is theoretically possible to go to prison in Poland. Such situations, the promotion of fascism, should be practically... Today it turns out that there is virtually no risk for such conduct. And if it wasn't for this TVN report, the government would continue to coquet the ultra-right environments, allowing them to grow more and more, letting them into the political mainstream. Therefore, today they cannot be let go, we must make sure that neo-fascist movements are delegated and that their leaders are punished. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u122	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Protasiewicz from the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! After Minister Brudziński's speech, you can say anything, but certainly not that it was information. So I will try to complete in the few minutes that I have for this speech, the missing elements of Minister Brudziński's speech. Well, Minister, as determined by independent journalists, objective and reliable, much more reliable than the services of you and your predecessor, in Poland there were at least several meetings and neofascist events held in 2015 and 2018 in the days of your government - in Warsaw, in Gdańsk, in Dzierżoniów, in Gostyn near Poznań, in Komprachcice near Opole, and also in Lubelszczyzna. Secondly, in 2015 the organizers rented a place from a company run by Beata Żołnieruk, today a member of the board of the Jarosław Gowin, a coalitioner of Law and Justice. In 2015, in the autumn, as you remember, there were scandalous demonstrations of ONR, racist in its content, in Wrocław. Ms Justyna Hrecak, who was originally accused by the regional prosecutor's office of spreading hatred for immigrants, who used words, spoke of Islamic scum, was not convicted because at the request of the Regional Vice-Procurator in Wrocław, the indictment against her was withdrawn. A similar situation took place in the case of Mr.Peter Rybak, who made a disgraceful, world-famous, seen everywhere, on almost every television, an act of burning the puppet of a Jew - also in the autumn of 2015 in Wrocław. As you can remember, the prosecution has only applied for 10 months of community service for this shameful, reprehensible act. The court has ordered a ten-month sentence for a ruthless prison. So? Once again, at the request of the Deputy Regional Prosecutor, Mr. Duplagi, the prosecution has requested an appeal to the Supreme Court for three months again. In the end, it ended in prison - luckily. But who is Mr. Duplaga? He is a newly appointed regional prosecutor in Wrocław. Where's he from? From Opole, from the family town of Mr. Vice Minister Jaki, whom we know well from dancing and singing together with Piotr Rybak at the conventions of his party, Solidarna Polska. [[But Rybak went to prison.]] And the last thing - withdrawal of the prosecution's application from the District Attorney's Office in Wroclaw against anti-Jewish, anti-Ukrainian appearances by Jack Miedlar in Wroclaw. The perpetrator of this action is Mr.Krzysztof Sierak, Deputy Attorney General, and thus subordinate to a colleague of Mr.Peter Rybak of Opole - Mr.Patryk Jaki. That's the real information about what an increase in mood looks like. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Fascist in Poland, which you avoid and for which you are also responsible. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And who yelled "Hände hoch!"?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u124	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr John Klawiter, not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that all important media, numerous journalists and publicists are clearly stigmatized by people glorifying fascist totalitarianism, so that public opinion receives a coherent and unambiguous message about such offending and illegal behaviours. I am pleased to note that the highest representatives of the Polish government, as well as the leaders of opposition parties, condemn the behaviour of the people we saw in the film recorded and broadcast by TVN. Let me remind you that the Penal Code prohibits the promotion of the fascist or other totalitarian state, of the symbolism of fascist, communist or other totalitarian, and provides for criminal sanctions for this. In view of the above, how are we to treat ignoring, tolerating, and even affirming communist totalitarianism, which was alongside fascism and Nazism the most terrible system in human history, which has consumed more victims than Nazism, which was the first to introduce concentration camps that arose earlier than Nazism and functioned in some parts of the world longer, because to this day? How, ladies and gentlemen, do the media and the representatives I have mentioned approach the symbols of the communist people appearing in the public space, such as a sickle and a hammer or a red star? How do they receive the images of Lenin, Marx, Engels, Trotsky, Che Guevara during the first-movie walks? How do they interpret the existence of the Communist Party of Poland in our country? What do they think about the websites on which communism ideology is promoted, the anniversary of the Bolshevik coup in Russia is celebrated, presented as models to follow Felix Dzerżyński, Mao Tse-tung or Włodzimierz Lenin? Since the birth of our party in 2007, the right of the Republic of Poland has been demanding the prosecution of people promoting communist totalitarianism, but the justice system has not been given the task of dealing effectively with this phenomenon. Piotr Strzembosz, activist of the Right of the Republic of Poland between 2007 and 2016 has submitted seven applications to the District Prosecutor's Office Warsaw-Śródmieście, in which he demanded the prosecution of persons promoting the criminal communist system during the celebrations of May 1. Unfortunately, every time the prosecutor's office resigned or even refused to initiate the procedure, and the court in charge of the administrative review of the prosecutor's decisions approved these actions. 23 January 2017 Piotr Strzembosz and the President of the Right of the Republic Marek Jurek sent a letter to the Minister of Justice of Zbigniew Ziębry on this matter, in which, among others, he wrote. They called for action to be taken to ensure effective enforcement. In March 2017, they received a reply from the first Deputy Prosecutor General Bogdan Święczkowski, in which they received assurance that everything was okay, but to be sure, the National Public Prosecutor will look at such cases again. The content of this letter shows that the Polish justice system does not see a clear violation of the law by promoting one of the two most dangerous totalitarians - communism. For several days the prosecution has been engaged in the organisation of Pride and Modernity, which has committed its shameful acts in the woods, without the participation of outsiders, and despite written requests, does not deal with organizations which for several years have committed their shameful, unlawful acts at the intersection of the street. Nowy Świat z Alejami Jerozolimskie w Warszawie, presenting symbols of communist totalitarianism, banner with the name of the Communist Party of Poland, banners with images of Lenin and other communist companions. Are we going to be condemned, prosecuted and convicted of people promoting communist totalitarianism? In a few months there will be so-called. The first-morning stunts. On this day, we will see whether the Constitution adopted in this House is in force in Poland... [[We're talking about neofascists!]] ...we will see the rank of the Penal Code passed in this House. We will see who will be prosecuted, tried and punished, whether the Polish law is a dead or selectively interpreted record. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki, not associated. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After the experience of World War II, after the Nazi period, anyone wears a Nazi uniform and worships Hitler, he leaves the Polish national community... [[That's you.]] [[You checked yourself out.]] ...he's no longer a Pole. He may have Polish citizenship, but he is no longer a Pole, there is no doubt about it. And this truth, this fact must be obvious in the Polish public debate. This is obvious not only to all other sides of the political scene, it is also obvious to Polish nationalists, not only because of the confusion, the combination of Polish Christian nationalism with German Nazism and the deliberate defamation of Polish nationalism do not serve us politically, but also because - also because - many, thousands, tens of thousands... [[You tell that to your friends!]] ...national activists in World War II were killed, murdered, killed in the fight against German Nazis. [[A voice from the room: He's your associate.]] [[You're gonna tell your friends, not us.]] As important and prominent figures as Prof. Rybarski, as Dr. Mosdorf died in Auschwitz, were murdered by the Nazis in Auschwitz. [[Applause]] He cannot be a Polish national who refers to German national socialism, to German totalitarianism. [[You'd better pick your coworkers anyway.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For this reason, to fill in the legal gap that exists today in Polish legislation - it actually exists - the National Movement proposes a project. We encourage all Members of all parties, from Modern to PiS, I apologize, from PSL to PiS, to sign the bill we propose. This law clarifies one thing, which is not present today in the Polish criminal system, namely the penalization of the cult of totalitarian genocides: Hitler, Stalin, Lenin and Bandera. We must name them by name and penallise the cult of those who contributed to the genocide of Poles. There can be no consent to this cult. Also because, ladies and gentlemen, if Hitler and Stalin are quite clearly evaluated... [[Then why did you intercede with the Minister of Justice for your colleague?]] ...but unfortunately, it doesn't apply anymore... [[You should have applied it to yourself!]] ... Lenin or, for example, Bandera, for example. Lenina Critics Political creatively robs, seems, trying to refresh his thought. So it is really necessary to establish order in the Polish country in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that the national environments in Poland must strengthen the cordon between us and the neo-Nazi margin, even if this margin is as grotesque as 10 or 12 participants of this horrendous event in the forest, even if 20% These participants were TVN journalists... [[20% is your parliamentary office.]] ...and even if the swastikas were stacked there with waffles. The margin shall be separated. It's interesting notabene that TVN journalists so easily came to infiltrate this group so quickly... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: It is a pity that it is so late.]] ...because it actually looked like a setup, it looked like one big theater, let's face it. But, ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion we must also say... [[Let me see what's in your closet.]] ...about the debate that followed, or rather the hysteria that followed in the Polish public debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has already recalled statistics from Germany today. We're talking about 500 neo-Nazi manifestations, we're talking about hundreds of concerts. There was no mention of that in December. A dozen of Israel's flags were burned on the manifestation of radical Islamists in Berlin. It wasn't said that Hamburg... [[Berlin is not in Poland.]] ...was on fire last year because the radical left and the violence that the radical left is sowing in Germany and in other countries has led to this. And I ask, have you heard, and I ask here Members especially the Modern and Platforms, have you heard of the fact that in connection with all these horrible events German politicians are so disgraceful to their own country? [[And you're a German politician?]] So they'd say that in Germany it's growing... [[But I'm asking for our country.]] ...a wave of neo-Naziism, radical Islam or extreme left? No. Why? Because they have a sense of responsibility for the state because they have a sense of responsibility for its international image. And the state, politically using this horrible, marginal event... [[Don't wave your hand, because in your bias, it's clearly associated.]] ...that event that, of course, is suitable for the D.A.'s office, and for the mental institution... [[Voice from the room: Don't talk there.]] ...of course, yes, using this, you create a disgusting image of Poland in the world. The question is, who benefits from this... [[Applause]] [[Your associate.]] ...the question of who is the beneficiary of your propaganda. [[Who are you applauding? Think about it.]] You should ask yourself that. And what business are you in today, because certainly not Poland. If you were acting in Polish interest, if you were really sensitive to these issues of totalitarianism in space... [[And the assistant?]] ...public, that, ladies and gentlemen, you would not have among your political allies and on your manifestations members of the Communist, neo-communist Party Together who write directly: I am a communist and there are countless of us. [[And your assistant?]] You wouldn't have people with red flags. Someone explains that the red flags were a symbol of the PPS before the war. [[Apologize to your assistant.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Before the war, the Podhale units had swastika in their symbolism, and the Scouts greeted each other with a Roman salute. World War II... [[You're okay, right?]] ... Nazism and Communism changed everything. Just as swastika, like the Roman salute, the red flags are not allowed today and must be punished, prosecuted, condemned in Poland. And this was always supported by the Polish national movement. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You'll start with your friends.]] [[And they're applauding him, something unheard of.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u128	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Liroy-Marc, who is not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Listening to everything that has been said here today, I begin to doubt the meaning of any debate in the Sejm, because every problem you immediately put into the PO-PiS Tribal War and the discussion is not moving forward at all. [[Applause]] The fact that some people consider themselves Polish patriots, while worshiping swastika or Hitler, makes me sad and frightened, because it means a total failure of the education system, a total lack of civic education and a total lack of dialogue between older and younger generations of Poles. [[Applause]] And here in the hall you, colleagues, really, instead of discussing the problem of education, about how we should educate future generations, how we should talk to them, do what they did, what happened in the Weimar Republic, i.e., blinded, you fight each other like communists and Nazis. And that's exactly what you can see from here, from where I'm sitting. So I only have one thing for today: may history teach us something. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u130	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Janusz Sanocki, who is not associated.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u131	Pope Paul V was supposed to say to some Irish monk who complained about various problems: Son, you do not know how little reason this world is governed. A marginal case: a few people who should be sent back to the mental institution, and all the media and the Polish parliament are dealing with such a marginal problem. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a shame. It's just what you're saying here. It's the fault... let's get started at all... I just heard a TVN journalist asking Mr. Kornel Morawiecki if this is the effect of PiS's spreading an umbrella over right-wing movements. Well, let's start with the fact that fascism was a classic left-wing movement. Maybe you don't know that, and some kind of reeducation needs to go through. Maybe you don't know that. [[Applause]] [[And you will lead her.]] I'm not gonna accept you because you're no good, Fame, really, not even for re-education. [[And we're not on you.]] ... The NSDAP was a left-wing, socialist party, [[Applause]] So maybe it's more of a stretching... inviting these leftist militias down here that made these people laugh. [[Applause]] Absolutely, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like some sense. I don't know if the State of the Platform you know - I don't have a negative attitude towards you, but you're embarrassing yourselves this way, you're just embarrassing yourselves. [[Sure, of course.]] I know you've already had some practice in this, but maybe you guys should just hold off on that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u132	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our speeches on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. I set the time to ask questions - one minute - and I close... [[Voice from the room: Two.]] ...a list of Members who have signed up to speak. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Liroy-Marc. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: After all, this is a scandal.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] I am very sorry, Mr Piotr Łukasz Babiarz, Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[How about half a minute would be enough?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u133	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Very often from the mouth of parliamentarians of the opposition we hear about the threat, especially for two years, fascism, that the PiS introduced a protective umbrella in relation to right-wing movements. It's all going into the world. I would therefore like to ask you a question. Minister, please confirm whether it is true that the Pride and Modernity Association was registered in 2011 and registered as a public benefit organisation in 2014? [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] Finally, since you knew it was a dangerous organization, what actions did the Ministry of Home Affairs take under the rule of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party on this association? [[Take care of your government.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u134	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Halicki, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It seemed that after Minister Błaszczak, nothing worse could happen to us. What you presented today is embarrassment and shame. What did you tell us today from that podium? That the police can't intervene because it could be dangerous? [[You have to listen.]] This could even solve the police and the bandits will be unpunished, will they feel safe? Did you solve, not you, Minister Błaszczak, the department after such neo-Nazi organizations because there is a problem with human trafficking? Is neo-Naziism and such organizations human trafficking? There's no need to amend the bill. Will you return to work today the workers who were dismissed from this department who reported these cases to the D.A.'s office? It's your call. You don't have to hide anything. You say we have to go after the Communists. Who are you talking to? To the people who fought the commune and didn't sleep through it on December 13th? Who are you talking to? [[Voice from the room: Not all of them.]] You have communists at your place - Peterovich. [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Salute to Minister Ziobra. You're the one with the problem. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u136	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz,15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I was curious to hear you talk about changes in the law. You were talking about absurdities that you wouldn't let go of so you wouldn't chase reconnaissance groups, but then you talked about absurdities about restricting public collections. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that for the stupidity of the total opposition, for a few lunatics, do not punish the third sector so that this sector does not suffer in any way. [[Applause]] Minister, will the changes in the law that you want to introduce for the non-governmental, free sector go in such a direction that there will be greater surveillance and limitation of this freedom? [[Censor will be there.]] Will you start working with the non-governmental sector? They can monitor themselves, organize themselves, do not limit their influence. I ask that these changes do not end up in the non-governmental sector, in its freedom, freedom. And you can congratulate yourselves if you give public acceptance for this kind of change by your stupidity and fight against the Nazi invaders. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u138	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Winnicki, you should leave this room. [[Applause]] You have no right to speak on this matter, because it was you who intervened in the matter of Mariusz S., which is among others. A hero...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u140	Madam, ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u141	...the last report on which this issue was dealt with. And as far as Kukiz is concerned, 15, just like the Germans, they have no right to lecture us... [[Please don't disturb me.]] ...on Fascism, so you have no right to lecture the opposition on these events... [[That's a dictatorship.]] ...because it's you guys. You brought Mr Winnicki to the Sejm. The Minister bragged about the number of cases taken by the police and the prosecutor's office. [[Your marshal, in corrigendum mode.]] Minister, you will commend yourself, how many cases have been filed, and how many cases have been dropped or how many cases have been dropped, such as the case file. on the matter of Mariusz S. Today you are looking for neofascists who marched on the streets of Warsaw on 11 November. What did you do for three months? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u142	Thank you, Member. In the context of the correction, Mr Winnicki, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u143	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As a correction, as a correction, because you didn't understand what this interpellation was about. Member, of course, if I had known... [[What kind of mode is that?]] ...but who knew, no one knew what kind of people this interpellation was about... [[You don't know your assistant?]] ...I wouldn't do that. The content of the interpellation and the subject which was included in it is as follows: people glued stickers with the sickle and hammer crossed and therefore the prosecution accused them of promoting communism. Yeah, it's absurd. If someone puts a sticky patch on the swastika and is accused of promoting Nazism, I will also intervene, of course, by checking more closely what this is about, although as you know... [[You've got a sticker for your brain.]] ...knowledge of Mr Mariusz S. was not known in the professional, family, or city environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u144	Thank you very much. [[Shame! The Lord is one great shame of this Seym.]] I would ask you to ask Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, PSL. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Me with corrigendum. Mr...]] Madam President, we will not apply corrections to corrections. You're welcome, sir. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: You only speak on one page. You're biased.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u145	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Seym! The material emitted by TVN24 is definitely shocking. It shows a group of people promoting fascist and neo-Nazi ideology, paying tribute to the greatest criminal of World War II. This is happening in Poland, our homeland, which has experienced so much suffering and cruelty of war. The group that worships this ideology did not come suddenly, is organized and is not the only party organized by it. I ask the Minister the following questions: Are there ongoing monitoring of cases of hate crimes and the promotion of the totalitarian state system? Question two. Did you have to wait for the results of a journalistic investigation to stop the organizers of this shocking event? Third question. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u146	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u147	What kind of action is he going to take led by... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u148	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev, Law and Justice. [[Your marshal, a little respect.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u149	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today it must be made clear once again that there is no permission in Poland to promote totalitarian systems. Organisations using symbols and concepts that glorify totalitarianism should be delegated. Such decisive action has been taken by the current government. Actions that unfortunately lacked during the PO-PSL period. So it's worth it. ask whether the Citizen Platform has tried to delegate the Pride and Modernity Association. [[How many rehearsals?]] Why have the politicians of the Civic Platform allowed such a dangerous association to work with impunity for years? [[Interesting question.]] It is also worth asking about the extent of the threat from organizations that approve of totalitarian systems. Does the MSWiA plan to investigate the activities of extremely left-wing organizations, openly promoting totalitarian symbols and images of communist criminals? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u150	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Monica Wielichowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u151	Minister! For 2 years the Civic Platform has been drawing attention to the widespread hatred, hatred, which is the beginning of totalitarian systems, hatred, which is the source of racism, xenophobia and neophasism. Two years, Minister, we've shown your government, your inaction. Two years passively and tolerantly allowed evil to germinate. [[But not eight.]] Your inaction, silent consent, is your shared responsibility, Minister. Today you told us to lean on the problem together. Let me remind you this: for two years, the Civic Platform Club has made several dozen speeches, requests, demands immediate, unambiguous and condemning responses to nationalism, xenophobia and neo-Naziism. You should have prepared yourself better today, Minister, for the debate. I don't know if you're aware that you thanked the radio station today, which promoted the concerts of the band, where musicians sing about the hanging of Jews who sing: it's us, the nation of socialists, it's us, the white racist. You thanked that radio station today. This is an outrage. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u152	Please take the floor of Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Limiting the time to ask questions is a mistake, because it would help us find out who really stands where. That would be necessary. That's too bad. Unfortunately, many Members approach the problem of totalitarianism too ideologically and not legally. Perhaps because of his experience, his camaraderie, and his own biography. I am not referring to Mr Robert Winnicki, but to those who have gone from NOP to PSL, this is the way. [[Applause]] Every promotion of totalitarianism is wrong, this must be remembered, it is subject to legal sanctions. In the same way, it is important to condemn fools who highly or consciously support Nazism, as well as highly children. It's about a photo posted on Facebook by a member of RAŚ. Those who oppose decommunisation of public space as self-government must also be condemned. I have a question for the Minister: What will you do with those self-government officials who do not respect this law in such a systematic way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u154	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u155	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! How can you fight something that you can't see or what you can do that doesn't exist? That question must sound in parliament. How, Minister, are you going to fight something you don't see or pretend it doesn't exist? What's more, it seems that so far your group has been building an atmosphere of acceptance. for those people with racist, xenophobic, or glorifying totalitarianism. [[Mirek, what are you saying? What kind of acceptance?]] This atmosphere of acceptance is born, coming from small steps: here the coach for the nationalists from the PiS... [[Desperation.]] ...then the spokesperson of the PiS understands why nationalists beat Poles in Radom, the Minister of Home Affairs does not see racist banners, and then urges us not to give in to clear associations, or finally the Deputy Minister of Justice intervenes. About who? Of course, the leader of Duma and Modernity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] The question is obvious: Will there ever be any action following the words, Minister? [[They're coming.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u157	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Stalin, Lenin, Hitler - three names, three people whose worship in Poland should be banned and severely punished. Such a bill, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish People's Party together with the Union of European Democrats will be deposited in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen! Question: "Will the PiS support the categoric ban on the worship of these people?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u158	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u159	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I would like to ask how many organizations that approve of totalitarian regimes have been delegated under the rule of the Civic Platform. [[ONR.]] I mean those who praised not only Nazism, but also communism or fascism. How many have been delegated? How many such organizations have denied the right to public collection? How many refused to register as a public benefit organization? [[ONR in the Bank.]] One more question, because a law was introduced on the prohibition of promoting communism and other totalitarian systems by the names of streets and squares. What is the situation with the implementation of this law today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate is not just about what Mr Sławomir Nitras said, it is not just about politicians who allow hatred in public life. This debate is also about how the state governed by these politicians works. [[Voice from the room: What are you screaming about?]] This debate is also about why you are not working. Minister! You said a lot that everything was okay, but you have to be very clear: it was the TVN24 editors who replaced the police under your control. If it weren't for them, [[Applause]] We wouldn't know anything about that. That's how you rule. Why are you so bossy? You said they were a bunch of idiots, that's what we can agree on, but the state ruled by you isn't able to catch those idiots. Plus, what else are you gonna give these idiots? You're gonna give these idiots a gun. [[Yes, sir.]] Let me remind you: the law on the amendment of the arms and ammunition bill. Who prepared this? You, Minister Macierewicz. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Minister! This is the organization you wanted to give... [[Lie! Lie!]] [[Minister, you are one big lie.]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u162	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u163	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One way of shaping the relationship to totalitarianism is by historical education at school. Unfortunately, it must be said that the solutions adopted by the previous government in this regard, such as reducing the number of hours of history teaching at every level of education, as well as introducing a linear curriculum, have contributed to increasing ignorance about Nazism, fascism, communism and flagship. How does the government intend to catch up on this? Another question. Minister, are there any rules in place to promote fascism, Nazism, flagism not only in public places, but at all? Mr Grabowski from our club also spoke yesterday, recently to Prof. Strzembosz, for many of you with undisputed authority, who expressed his opinion that this act was not of character. [[♪ The bell ♪]] public... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u164	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u165	High Izbo! You have real tools in your hands. Nearly three months have passed since the March of Independence, and people who have tarnished the good name of our country in the world, who have raised racist shouts, carried racist banners, are still at large. When will they finally be stopped? When are they going to be court-martialed? Why weren't they stopped during the march? Where were the police? Why did she break peaceful manifestations, and the lawbreakers on November 11 let her go free? Bagatizing racist, neo-Nazi actions has just led to a deterioration of the situation. What steps, e.g. The Minister of Justice intends to take action against the prosecutor's office, who for burning the Jew's puppet on the Wrocław market only applied for social work instead of prison? Who specifically in the National Public Prosecutor's Office is responsible for the withdrawal in September Ub. R. Indictment against Fr. Meatloaf? Dear Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! We don't want your... [[The bell, the Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u166	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Filipiak from Law and Justice. Is Mrs Ewa Filipiak here? There isn't. In that case, I would ask Mrs Ursula Augustyn from the Civic Platform to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u167	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! If we didn't know you, maybe we could be seduced by these beautiful words, that we should work beyond divisions, and what you are calling us to do here. You thanked the media beautifully. You forgot absolutely about public media, about editor Rachoń, who, as an expert, repeatedly invited a rapper to his program, who not only uses fascist symbolism, it still offends Jews, Arabs, Ukrainians and many other nations. You forgot to thank editor Rachoni for that. It's worth it. It is said, here several times you have talked about teaching history and raising. Exactly, I would like to ask: Do you think - perhaps you should consult Mrs Zalewska, because she is the author of the basis of the curriculum teaching of history in the fourth grade - that the fact that you are manipulating history, that you are choosing from it only the facts you want to teach, is teaching the truth and will it allow young people to draw conclusions? You forgot Wałęsa, you forgot many characters, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which in this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u168	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Adam Wozniak from the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During today's debate, we say zero tolerance for Nazism, communism and hate policy. Minister, in addition to illegal provocations against the nation's environment during the Independence March and attempts to cause riots - the arson of the Russian embassy - have police and services carried out any real recognition of extremely left-wing and right-wing environments? What were the effects of these actions? The scale of attacks on parliamentarians' offices, motivated by hatred for people with different political views, is now increasing. By comparing the governments of PO-PSL and today's PiS, politicians whose options are most often attacked, Minister? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u170	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Caesar Tomczyk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u171	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister Brudziński said today: zero tolerance. So I ask: when 100 Members of the Civic Platform applied for the delegalisation of the ONR, [[Applause]] And you didn't see the problem, that was zero tolerance? And then when Mr Winnicki of Kukiz15 brought the neofascists here from Italy... [[You, you, you.]] ...with the permission of the Minister, with the consent of Marshal Kuchciński, that was zero tolerance for fascism? [[Applause]] Or maybe when there were pictures of Members of the Civic Platform on the market in Katowice, and the police were standing next to them, they didn't react, maybe that was zero tolerance from the state? [[Applause]] Or maybe when the D.A. finally dropped dozens of cases, this case in Bialystok and other Polish cities, which Mr Winnicki was intercedeing for, then you didn't see the problem either? That's zero tolerance too? [[It was in your day.]] You've been supporting nationalism for two years. And that is the effect today: zero tolerance, zero tolerance of Mr. What, zero tolerance of Mr. Ziobra, zero tolerance of Mr. Mularczyk... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u172	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Marta Kubiak, the Law and Justice question. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u173	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I have the following question: Does the Ministry conduct monitoring or action on the Communist Party of Poland, which openly commends the criminal, totalitarian system, and is there a chance to carry out an effective delegalization of organizations that approve of communism and fascism? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u174	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Platform. [[Game in the O.R.]] Members, please remain calm. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u175	We have heard many times today from the Minister's mouth that these are marginal groups. And other Members also said: marginal groups. Wroclaw, Bytom, White Podlaska, Tychy, Czestochowa. Dealing with Hitler's tablets, organizing Hitler's birthday, smoking a puppet Jew, neo-Nazi parties. These are not marginal groups and marginal cases. You're the ones who are responsible for this, and you know it. Your fellow Members are helping to organize the arrival on the march of freedom for such people. Your permission only encourages them to do so. You thanked the private station today for issuing this program. What does a public station do? How does he contribute to this? Tomasz Panfil, a historian of IPN, is an expert in Polish Television, who says: After the aggression of Germany on Poland, the situation of Jews did not look very bad. [[The voice from the room: It looked terrible.]] Or: Swastika is an ambiguous symbol, and the NSDAP was a left-wing party. You owe it and you're narrating it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u176	Please take the floor of Mr Edward Siarka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There is no doubt that the current discussion that we are having in this Chamber takes place in a context and a narrative which aims to give such a message that here in Poland we have some great problems with national movements, we have great problems with fascism, etc., with the promotion of this kind of idea. [[The problem is starting.]] Well, it's a false narrative, unfortunately. In order to use an example, it may sometimes be worth asking what it looks like in statistics, if we can really say from the legal side that such phenomena in our society are growing... [[Yeah, it's tripled in two years.]] ...that in individual years we have phenomena that really need to be addressed strongly. How many of these things do we have? How many such cases have been reported on a racial, national and ethnic background that we can... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to treat as a violation of the law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u178	Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Minister, I'll show you what your protective umbrella looks like and your zero tolerance. In Stalowa Wola, the principal of primary school on her website encouraged students, young people to join ONR. [[Applause]] Headmistress of primary school. I've written an inquiry to the Minister about it. And what did the Minister say? That the Podkarpackian school curator did not find grounds for referring a request to the Disciplinary Ombudsman for an investigation in the Disciplinary Board. [[Applause]] But the teachers who took and put a photo of the black protest, you were dragging the disciplinary boards. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Yesterday I read that the teachers in Chelm ridiculed the student... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u180	Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[No culture, no culture.]] Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! On this land, on Polish soil there can be no indulgence in promoting Nazi or communist symbols. These ideologies led to the death of more than 6 million Polish citizens, to the destruction of Polish cities and towns. It is good that the Polish state passed the exam, worked smoothly and the people responsible for these disgraceful excesses were stopped, they were charged. I believe that they will be punished in an exemplary way so that no one can think of imitating these behaviors. Minister! I have the impression that our country does not act with similar determination as regards promoting communism, that there is greater indulgence here. I hope we're done with this. Thank you. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: No red shirts and no suits. Not even a sock.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u182	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u183	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Minister Brudziński spoke today: zero tolerance for promoting fascism. Meanwhile, out of five neofascists detained yesterday from the Pride and Modernity organization, the prosecution has already released three. [[48.]] This is the hard fight between PiS and Nazism. On 1 January, ladies and gentlemen, this year, on the official profile of Law and Justice in Łowicz, there appeared a fake news presenting Mr Boris Budka, who was staged as Adolf Hitler. I have a question, Minister: What have you done with this fact so far? What did Minister Ziobro do? [[And what does Minister Budka's sister do?]] And the question to the president of Jarosław Kaczyński: Are the PiS activists from Łowicz responsible for this fake news still in the ranks of this party? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u184	Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In light of the ongoing discussion on fascist behaviour in our country, I have a few questions. How are the incidents of the type of sick performance of dozens of people in some woods, so publiced by a certain television, and more than six months after this event, to incidents of a similar nature in other countries of the European Union, in particular in the Federal Republic of Germany? Who among the members of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, who among the members of the government expressed warm and sympathy for such incidents? Has this ever happened? On what basis is the so-called. The total opposition is talking about the government's support for these incidents? Is it just a misunderstanding of the word "p base"? It would be half poor: the lack of education is an individual feature of these Members and it is their constituents who should consider whether such uneducated people continue to support, but it seems that they want to create an unfavorable picture of our country, Poland, abroad. In Poland we all see how it really is, and they see [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Just don't throw it.]] There's a quote I'd like to dedicate to you, a quote from Jan Karski. [[Voice from the hall: To yours.]] The one who does not condemn is the one who permits it. Is the behaviour of this room today, and especially of this side, that condemnation? [[Yeah, this side.]] Isn't that softening? The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration speaks of this appalling incident: the Nazis with a waffle cake. Perhaps it was better to say, Minister Brudziński: cookie monsters. But that's not what this debate is about. [[Something like that.]] One important word didn't come out here... [[Time out.]] ...which you should say - excuse me. [[For what?]] I'm sorry this could have happened. I'm sorry the PIS didn't work. Sorry the servants didn't work in time. The investigative reporters had to do a job for you, and today the investigative reporters need to be thanked. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u188	Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Club Law and Justice. [[Don't be sorry, tell the whole truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate, like many others in this House, shows a very sad, even embarrassing picture of citizens' awareness. The lack of elementary knowledge and fierceness in defence of some difficult understandable party interests must be concerned at the expense of only the good name of Poland and Poles, the nation most experienced by the atrocities of World War II. My question to the Minister, I assume, is due to a lack of knowledge. Whether the government intends to undertake educational activities reminding those who still do not know what fascist totalitarianism was in Poland, using materials such as the report of the Office of War Compensations at the Bureau of the Council of Ministers of January 1947, which shows the huge damage and hecatombs suffered by Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] During the period... [[Vice Marshal disables microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Minister of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First... [[Let's start with the Stachowiak case.]] ...a couple of club appearances. I'd like to refer to them. Then I'll go back... [[No censorship.]] ...at least for some questions. The Member may stop screaming. That'd be better. Well... [[Send the police to her.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is such a phrase that whoever is sowing the wind collects the storm. It's true. It's true. [[Exactly.]] What you're doing today, that's exactly what you're doing. You're blowing the wind and... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Who's in those pictures?]] ...will be you, but, worse still, we will all be as a nation, as Poland, as a country, picking up a storm. Because we all say - but you do not speak honestly and do not listen to what we say - that there is no consent in Poland for such behaviours as today are the subject of this debate. There is no consent, there is no tolerance, and we appeal for it - I said yesterday at the session of the Parliamentary Committee, today Minister Brudziński spoke about it - we should all give this a strong resistance. We should all - I will say this: the institutions of the state, society, the media, all of us - condemn such behaviour and we must fight them. But we can't exaggerate it. Because today you exaggerate this problem and create such a picture in Poland... [[And you're ignoring it.]] ...in the world - this topic has taken over public space in recent days - that Poland is a xenophobic country, some neo-fascist, neo-Nazi country. Nothing more harmful. Think about the storm we'll all be picking after the wind you caused. Because you're the ones who caused this. Ladies and gentlemen, no one... [[You're full of shit.]] ...there's no grudge against the TV station, and that's what Minister Brudziński told me that she leaked the painting. [[Maybe you were changing. I wasn't.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to recall an article that should apply to all of us as citizens. It's an art. 304 Code of Criminal Procedure. Its § 1 says, "Everyone, having learned of the crime pursued by the public, has a social duty - a social duty... [[Fisherman.]] ...to inform the D.A. or the police. [[It's a meatball.]] And state and local authorities - maybe television is not such an institution, but in this context it is also worth reading this provision - which in connection with their activities learned about the crime... [[Don't embarrass yourself.]] ...running by the state, they are obliged to notify the prosecutor or the police immediately and to take the necessary measures until... [[They called about Fisherman, so what?]] ...the arrival of an authority appointed to prosecute crimes or until such time as that authority has issued an appropriate order to prevent traces and evidence of crime from being erased. What appeared in the Superviser took place in May 2017 and was revealed after many months. It is worth considering why this happened. A. 256 § 1 Penal Code... [[The medal should be given to these journalists, the award. How can you do that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u192	Mr... Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u193	...is unambiguous here. [[Voice from the room: Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u194	Mr President, should I call you to order?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u195	Who publicly promotes fascist or otherwise... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u196	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u197	...totalitarian state system... [[You can almost do anything here. There are very sad things going on in this seym.]] ...or calls for hatred against national, ethnic, racial, religious differences, or because of non-denominationality, is punishable by fines, punishments for restrictions on liberty or imprisonment up to the age of 2. And after disclosure, the state authorities acted very quickly and efficiently. Six people have been apprehended... [[Just like with Fisherman.]] ...and it's taken... [[And released.]] ...in relation to them appropriate legal action, in accordance with the law. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, how it was during your reign. Well, your famous Home Minister, Mr. Sienkiewicz, when one of these happened... [[You're talking about what you're doing.]] ...events that bore the mark of crimes for racist reasons, went to Bialystok and declared, "We're coming for you." Is he here? No, it didn't work out. The perpetrators weren't punished. It was... [[What do you say?]] ...your fight against these kinds of phenomena. That was your effectiveness. [[Applause]] [[Were there any cases like this?]] It was your effectiveness, and it was your will in this fight. And today... [[200 indictments in Bialystok.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u198	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u199	...the state is saying that we... [[Voice in the courtroom: Indictments in the D.A.'s office...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u200	I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u201	...breeding or feeding a monster. [[Ad vocem.]] [[He's lying.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all the actions that are possible, we prove that we have determination in the fight against the manifestations of preaching fascist, communist or other totalitarian ideologies. [[A list of actions to show.]] There's no doubt about you. There was a question, one of the questions, did you delegate any organization? I don't know the case. Does anyone know this case? [[ONR from the Bank.]] Is there such a case? Let me see it. I don't know this case. [[Speak for yourself.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to the club appearances. Yesterday we spent 4 hours at an important meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to correct false information.]] There's been an explanation about the Independence March. Everyone, even the applicants, found that there was no objection to police action that the police were working properly, effectively, professionally. But today these questions are being raised again from the Parliamentary Speaker, there are again attempts to insinuate, to press charges, as if you didn't listen for four hours yesterday, and as if you didn't agree with this assessment yourself. After all, we all agreed, including those from the opposition, who reported this subject to the committee meeting or to the Sejm meeting. The Commission voted that there is no need to explain this in the Sejm because the information is sufficient. [[The PiS voted.]] [[Who's got the majority on the committee?]] But today you're going back to it, and today it's the same again. [[The voice from the room: No, you're lying.]] What is this proof of? The fact that you don't care about that, of course... [[The voice from the room: No, you're lying.]] ...just to explain something, it's just a matter of... [[Voice from the room: Hurt Poland.]] ...suck the wind. [[Manipulation. You're manipulating.]] To sow the wind, just to stir up a fight, to raise emotions. Besides, your speeches were so emotional that even some of the questions weren't heard, because you were screaming, you were pronouncing your judgments from the benches and so on. Member of the PSL Parliamentary Club... Excuse me, Madame, who said that we are collecting high pensions for the militia... Mrs Pasławska. Come on, Member, read it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We didn't take any pensions from the militia, it was the security officers, the SB. That's what the debubecism bill is about. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't mislead the public and think about what you're saying. As far as answers to some questions are concerned, basically They have already fallen in Minister Brudziński's speech. One of the questions was when there was a registered association that we're talking about today. In 2011, the Council I'll remind you that the PO-PSL coalition was in charge, not Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Who was the minister of justice?]] In accordance with Article - and let me remind you - this organization has the status of a public benefit organization. I will remind you once again - Minister Brudziński has already said this - that it was the PO-PSL coalition at the initiative of Minister Boni that led to a change of rules as regards public collections. The Home Secretary doesn't have an instrument to find out what it looks like, who's performing and who's running this collection, there's no way to control it. Of course, if he wanted to take action, it would not be legally binding. And only then would there be screams, and rightly so. So we need to change the rules so that we can act more effectively. When it comes to hate crimes, we have talked about this many times, I also recently answered questions in the Sejm, to one of the current questions, and I said that the number of hate crimes in Poland in recent years has remained about the same level, with a slight downward trend rather than an upward trend. And it's been said today, too. [[Voice from the O.R.: Depositions.]] You, of course, don't listen to this, you say something completely different. Such crimes, let me remind you, in 2015 791, were found in 2017 - 726, i.e. slightly less, not more, and this was indeed a very small fraction, because 0.09% the total number of offences. I will repeat again, because some of you deny the actions of the police and the government that it is safe in Poland. It is safer in Poland. Research shows that about 90% Poles believe that Poland is a safe country, and has grounds for it. [[Ask about the Stachowiak case.]] Okay. 95% people think it's safe to live where we spend most of our time, where we live, go shopping, send our children to school, etc. [[But not in the woods.]] And what are these judgments based on, these opinions? It is because the number of crimes is falling in Poland and their detection is increasing. As far as the detection of hate crimes is concerned, I would like to remind you once again: detection has increased in relation to your governments by more than 10%. And now it's more than 50% , it also increases. the detection of crimes in these seven categories of offences most annoying to citizens, despite the increase of almost 40%, and in this case more than 50% And it's not easy to detect a crime often. So this is really, ladies and gentlemen, a good indicator. The attacks on the Parliamentary Offices were mentioned. These are attacks motivated by political hatred. We must pay the same attention to them - just as to brand them and fight them - as to other crimes motivated by other types of hatred, with different sources, but this always poses a very great threat. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask - because there is a constant charge that the police are acting ineffectively, that the state is acting ineffectively, that there was no recognition of this environment - how was it possible after 48 hours after the release of the material to stop the first participants of this assembly? How was that possible? [[Voice from the room: Because the names of TVN were given.]] However, it turned out that the state services, the police, the Homeland Security Department, worked very well. And it has to be noted. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen! It seems to me that it would be possible - and probably necessary - to ask questions that could at least be heard and noted, to answer in more detail, but if one of you considers that he has not received an answer, then we can do so in writing. We are happy to do so because the conditions under which this conversation is held today are not conducive to substantive debate. That's too bad. Maybe just one more thing, because Mr Halicki spoke about the alleged dissolution of the department - he said so - and this is a prominent policy of the Civic Platform, so he should know what he is saying. [[Team, good, team.]] Mr. Speaker! No one from the department that dealt with the phenomena we are talking about today has solved or fired workers, Mr President, but as far as the team is concerned... [[The band, yeah.]] ...which was located in another department, was transferred to another department with reinforcements... [[What about the Legion police?]] ...his function and the transfer of all employees, without firing anyone, but of course you know better. [[I know better.]] Well, then, like you. You know better than that, but you don't know what it was like. It really was the way I'm presenting it to you. [[What about the Legion policemen transferred to Sochaczew?]] Don't yell 'cause it doesn't work. I can't hear you anyway. I can't hear you because you can't listen. [[You act the same way to people.]] Ladies and gentlemen, maybe in the end, so as not to bother you with the fact that I am speaking, and you are not listening, because you did not ask these questions so that... [[What do you say?]] ...to get some answers, just to make a fuss... [[But what are you saying?]] ...I'll summon... [[Call the minister to order. How are you acting?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u202	Madam, you are now interfering with the conduct of...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u203	Yeah, bring yourself back to normal. [[How are you acting?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u204	You're interrupting the Minister's speech. I'm gonna have to get you cleaned up. Member, I warn you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u205	Bring yourself back to normal. It's better if you don't. Your constituents will judge that well. Ladies and gentlemen, as I am listening to this debate today and examining what happened yesterday at the committee meeting, and what is happening today, I think it is worth recalling once again what you once called the President of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński, a fragment of the work Cornel Ujejski entitled. But, Lord, they are innocent, although our future has gone backwards, the other devils have been active there, O! Punish the hand, not the blind sword. The question is, where is the hand, and where is the blind sword? Where's the head of all this and who's in charge of all this? Who manipulates and directs all this so that today such a harmful image of Poland is created? You're doing it. But who specifically and what environment? [[Applause]] [[Put your mirror on, please. You'll see.]] Where it comes from, it's time to show... [[A mirror.]] ...but the words of a romantic poet should be considered, because these manifestations... [[Instead of philosophizing it for work, let's do it.]] ...what you're causing, exaggerating, didn't come out of nowhere... [[To work, Minister.]] ...it's coming from something. The fact that after a few months the case is now so public and exaggerated is also a sign of something. Let the public think about it, let the public think about where the hand or head is and where the blind sword is. [[Let the minister think about it. You're responsible for this.]] We will fight all such acts that are illegal. They're gonna be doing police and other state services, just think about it... [[The image loss of our country, yes.]] ...respectful of the opposition, to which you lead, exaggerating such problems in Poland... [[Overreacting?]] ...what you're leading to by telling the government, by telling us... [[A false image of the state.]] ...that whoever tolerates it feeds the monster because that's what they say. Ladies and gentlemen, these are very harmful actions for Poland, which you are taking. [[Sabotage.]] The opinion goes into the world, goes outside Poland. Poland is not the country you define. [[Applause]] [[Yes, Minister, very well.]] Poland is not the country that you might want to create with these actions. That's you. You're breeding a monster... [[We saw it.]] ...you feed him, you feed him. [[This is a diversion.]] - Ooh, Punish the hand, not the blind sword. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[That's what you said.]] [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u206	Mr Szczerba, as corrected. One minute. [[Nitras.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u207	Thank you, Marshal. I'm in corrigendum mode. Minister! That's the kind of request that you don't lie to me from that podium because it wasn't us who asked for information, it was you. That's one thing. But that's not the most important thing. You said Sienkiewicz went and didn't get anywhere. Sir, in Politics - I think this is a reliable source for you - Sienkiewicz went and yet came: arrest for 10 skinheads. It says in the text that these skinheads begged the D.A.'s office to punish themselves, to beg. They're out of jail. Today you are quoting us here President Kaczyński. And I'll quote you the Attorney General. He stood with a white and red flag with Mr Rybak and sang: to make Poland Polish. [[Applause]] And I'll tell you this: that's why we're doing this, that we don't want Poland like this, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] that we do not want Poland in which Rybak and Ziobra sing: that Poland be Polish, because Poles... [[I sang too. So what?]] And you. [[Shame on you!]] ...because Poles are democratic... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] [[Fame, that was later, not before, okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u208	Mr. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u209	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to ask you guys to cool your emotions a little bit. The debate about neofascism, neo-Naziism should be held in a completely different chamber, in a completely different country, and we are talking in Poland... [[Applause]] [[Where's Ziobro?]] Please listen to me. ...in which 6 million of our compatriots were murdered, 17% population. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Jews, Belarusians.]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you immediately after the votes for the opening of the exhibition "Intelligenzaktion Schlesien" which will take place down here at the main entrance. [[Is the fisherman gonna be there?]] I would like to invite you to show this because one of the Members spoke about the value of education. Yeah, 'cause that's what you gotta pay attention to. It's about how several thousand of our countrymen were murdered in Silesia as part of the whole action against the Silesian insurgents, intelligence... [[It's the Fisherman who needs to be invited.]] ...spiritual, murdered politicians. I invite you because this is very important. Let's cool our emotions a little bit. [[We'll have to invite the Fisherman.]] However, let us remember that what is said in our House, here, is echoing, for example, in the European Parliament... [[You were with Fisherman at the convention.]] ...where there are politicians who are talking about 60,000. Patriots who... [[They want to hang.]] ...walking in Warsaw, commemorating the anniversary, talking about them... [[I think it's a Czarneck about cashiers.]] ...that they're fascists. This is an outrage, ladies and gentlemen. And you are just warming up this atmosphere so that there, in the European Parliament, there are politicians who speak harsh words in Poland - precisely in Poland. [[Applause]] [[Don't embarrass yourself. Minister, embarrassment.]] [[You're confusing the effect with the cause. You were at that convention, sang along with Fisherman.]] Ladies and gentlemen... Don't yell...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u210	Mr Tomczyk, I warn you that you will be punished later...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u211	I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u212	...and you'll be asking for your punishment to be spared. [[The Minister will defend himself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u213	...you have to make it sound bad. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Minister of the Interior, said: "We are coming for you." When was that? When there were these disgraceful events in Bialystok. And so that you went that a year later it stayed... [[Exactly. Same lie again.]] ...a registered association that appeared in this film that was responsible for those events that you today condemn as we do. So you went after them. And you have to tell yourself that. [[Well, I just said-- there are judgments, man.]] It was the same with the concert, the Orle Nest Festival. See if you can find out how the D.A.'s office did in your day, if she's actually pressing charges against anyone. She refused to initiate proceedings at all. [[The prosecution was independent.]] You don't want to talk about that anymore, do you? [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u214	Mr Tomczyk, I warn you. [[And if the minister didn't listen, then what?]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: Ladies and gentlemen, the D.A.'s office... Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u215	...under the leadership of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, works very well. And now the statistics, because this is very important, about crimes committed against national, racial...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u216	Mr Wojtkiewicz, take your place. Mr Wojtkiewicz, I warn you. [[But they're interrupting.]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Wójcik: ...crimes involving... I'm warning you. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u217	...hate speech. Listen to me, because this is important. We've looked into what it was like to refer the indictments and applications to the court for conviction without a hearing under the rule of law. 355 § 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In 2010, 30 indictments were sent, in 2011 - 40, in 2012 - 75, in 2013 - 111, in 2014 - 154, in 2015 - 158, in 2016 - 158 in the indictment. 73 cases were brought before the court pursuant to Article. 355 Code of Criminal Procedure, there were 48 applications for conditional remission. A total of 279 decisions have been taken in such cases, 20% of cases, most in recent years. And you're saying we're sweeping under the rug? That's not true. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] That's not true. [[Voice from the room: Three times more.]] You can't argue with statistics. The D.A.'s running smoothly. [[Voice from the room: It's not right.]] I would like to say that the guidelines for this type of crime have been issued as prosecutor Seremet and they are in force. There is a special prosecutor in the National Public Prosecutor's Office who deals with such cases - there was a question - they are so-called. The co-ordinators in the District Attorney's Office, there's a lot of them. We take these matters very seriously, although they are marginal... they really matter big, but there are very few of them - there are very few of them. [[Do you know Mr. Rybak?]] About the case... [[Fisherman.]] ...Mr. Rybak. Sir... [[And Międlar.]] ...as far as Mr. Rybak is concerned, Mr. Rybak was put behind bars for good change. Yeah, yeah, the indictment was filed by the D.A.'s attorney, Zbigniew Ziobra. Yeah, you don't know that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[How's singing with him?]] [[You sang together.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u218	Sit still, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u219	That's not good enough. I would like to say that when he was converted into an absolute prison sentence, a positive opinion was given to the Prison Service in this regard. And under whose supervision is the Prison Service? Attorney General, Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobra. That's the truth. Only the state of this... [[For Poland to be Polish.]] ...you don't want to see kindly. [[And they see a picture from years ago.]] As for Mr. Rybak's appearance on stage at one of the conventions, you may, ladies and gentlemen... [[And whose convention?]] [[Listen now!]] ...you may ask, ladies and gentlemen, why did Donald Tusk meet with Mr. Fisherman? [[Because he's a Mularczyk... you're a liar, you manipulator!]] Why? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Why? He talked for an hour. [[You cheater one... because he brought him into the Sejm...]] Why? It's just... it's just... Mr. Marshal, please calm down...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u220	Mr Nitras, I warn you. Again...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u221	Mr Nitras...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u222	... You'll be writing appeals against penalties. [[Requesting corrigendum mode.]] Please sit down.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u223	Mr Nitras...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u224	What corrigendum?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u225	...take the time when you're yelling, use it to... [[Take him to the courthouse. Don't talk to me.]] ...you saw what pictures are on the Internet, whether it's Donald Tusk and Rybak or not. [[You liar, I'm telling you again.]] That's it. Ladies and gentlemen, there's only a difference between us because we don't say... [[The voice from the room: There it is, it's true.]] [[We're not pointing fingers.]] ...that Donald Tusk knew that Mr. Rybak had slept in about a month's time, just like we did when that person showed up... [[In a few years.]] ...on stage, representing the Outrageous Movement... [[And we knew...]] ...wasn't invited by us... [[But you let him in.]] ...we couldn't have known that some months later they had slept a Jew's puppet. That's what we're different about. Do you understand? [[Chronology of events.]] [[You're gonna explain yourself to the D.A.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u226	Mr. Nitras, I'm warning you...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u227	Don't scare me, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u228	...for the second time - for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u229	And keep your voice down. Quiet down, sir. [[The sequence of events.]] That is the lack of this political culture. We don't accuse TVN24 of the fact that Rybak appeared in their materials because we can't. Why? Because we're honest. You guys would've pulled it out right away. [[Applause]] [[Who said that? That's what the homie said.]] With regard to the matter of this disgraceful event that took place, ladies and gentlemen, the Attorney General, the Minister of Justice responded immediately, as did the head of the Home Affairs Department. Immediately, on the same evening, proceedings were initiated. I want to tell you that... [[After TVN.]] ...part of the people were arrested immediately, first the first three, then the next two people. Now... [[And it was released immediately.]] ... recommended the Attorney General to supervise the Regional Public Prosecutor's Office in Katowice. The case is handled by the District Attorney's Office in Gliwice, the legal basis is Art. 256 and 263. The investigation is under the supervision of the national prosecutor because we take these cases very seriously - very seriously. And I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that on Tuesday, the ABW held three people, two more on Wednesday. Among those detained are others. Mateusz S., ps. Sitas. It's still going on, it's about celebrating Adolf Hitler's birthday. The next steps will be carried out by the Internal Security Agency. Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, when it comes to the withdrawal of the indictment you're talking about, there's no such thing as the withdrawal of the indictment. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] It is for the court to decide whether the material should be withdrawn, even if the application is submitted. It's up to the court to decide that. [[There are redemptions.]] [[No.]] Read the rules of procedure. The court shall decide whether or not to return the application is intended to supplement the procedure. This is a completely different situation. [[Prison. It's up to the court to decide.]] Finally, I want to say yes. Thank you so much for having the reporters reveal these things. Too bad after all this time. You have to fight these things, these things. You must not build on these kinds of cases, because this can lead to phenomena that the head and vice-president of the Ministry of Internal Affairs spoke about here, are, among other things. For the murder of a law and justice activist. It's a terrible thing. Do you know who the unsub was trying to murder? Jarosław Kaczyński or Zbigniew Ziobra. He was just scared because he came to the demonstration and was afraid of the bodyguards. That's what this is about, unfortunately, heating up these emotions. [[What are you doing now?]] I'm asking you today to tone down and really calm down, cool your emotions a little bit. Thank you very much. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u230	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[No, Mr. Marshal, you can't do that.]] A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. [[Mr. Marshal, there are conclusions.]] I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[You can't do that.]] I have to. You're making a fuss. [[But if ministers lie...]] He was on the stand. I've announced a three-minute break... [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min 49 hours 14 min 54]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u231	I'm reopening the session. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on government departments. In the discussion, I remind the High House, proposals were made: the first, to reject the draft law at first reading, and the second, to join the second reading without delay. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] First of all, I will put to the vote a motion as far as possible to reject the draft law in its entirety. The question is asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras. [[That's not it, Marshal, I'm with the other.]] To the other. [[And I have a formal motion, Mr. Marshal. I applied for a formal application.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, aren't the rules still in place?]] Calm down, please. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print 2201, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 399 Members voted. 156 voted against - 241, two Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before the second vote, the question is asked by Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u232	Ladies and gentlemen! We did here today something that was at the request of PiS as a debate, in which also the Minister of the Interior, and the Minister of Justice, or actually his deputy, just lied to us. [[Voices from the hall: But that's not the subject.]] You lied. You support nationalists...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u233	Mr President, ask a question about the point on which we are voting. [[But don't interrupt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u234	I'm on my way. I'm going to ask you a question. I'm on my way, Marshal. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u235	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u236	Why did you lie? And the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice lied. Why, Minister of Justice, Minister Wójcik, you're lying, saying...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u237	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are speaking out of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u238	Can I... But you don't know what it is. I'd... You don't understand. You just got here. [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u239	Mr President, for the second time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are not speaking on the subject. Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u240	Mr. Marshal, I was in this debate, you weren't there. [[It's a departmental bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u241	Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Three, I'm calling you in order and I'm asking you to leave the podium. [[Movement in the courtroom, some Members hit the desktops]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u242	I would like to ask the Minister who provided the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u243	Let me remind you that the questions may concern the immediate accession to the second reading of the government draft law on the departments of government administration. [[Mr. Marshal, how embarrassed are you?]] We shall proceed to the vote then.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u244	This is an outrage. It's the same as your fight against nationalism. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: I applied for the formal application twice. Mr. Marshal, you have your job, and I have...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u245	Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Voice from the room: But please make a formal request...]] The proposal adopted by the Sejm Bureau is to refer this draft law to the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee for consideration. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, may I make a formal motion?]] I will put to the vote a motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the committee. We proceed with the vote on the proposal to move to second reading. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request to move to the second reading of the draft law in print 2201, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 407 Members voted. There were 248 votes against, 156 abstentions. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of this project? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break and, remind you, I'm calling the Senior Convention to the dark living room right now. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 58 hours 15 min 06]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u246	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of items 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda: 4. Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft Business Law Act (Prints No. 2051 and 2187). 5. Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft Law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Enterprises (prints No. 2052 and 2188). 6. Report from the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft Act on Central Register and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for Entrepreneur (prints No. 2053 and 2189). 7. Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government draft law on the rules for participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in economic trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland (prints No 2054 and 2190). 8. Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government's draft Law Rules introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws concerning business activity (prints No. 2055 and 2199). I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Starzycki to present the report of the committee in print 2187. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft Law of Entrepreneurs, Prints No. 2051 and 2187. The Sejm at its 53rd meeting on 8 December 2017 pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation for its consideration. The Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation considered the draft law at its meeting on 12 January 2018. During the committee's deliberations, the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm tabled a number of legislative amendments which largely deal with editorial issues in the various articles of the Act. They were largely accepted by the committee. In addition, an amendment to Article was tabled. 5 draft Law of Entrepreneurs, where after paragraph. paragraph 5 is added. 6 as follows: due income as referred to in paragraph. 1, the amounts due, even if not actually received, shall be understood, after excluding the value of the goods returned, of the discounts and the sum granted. This amendment was made in connection with the comments made by traders indicating that the concept of income due to which Article is used. 5 Business rights defining non-registered activities are imprecise. It is proposed to clarify by applying a construction similar to the definition of income due under Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax. Another amendment was tabled in Article. Article 66 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the draft law as follows: the results of the evaluations and analyses referred to in paragraph 1. 1 shall be included in the explanatory memorandum to the draft normative act or in the impact assessment of the regulation as a separate part of the explanatory memorandum of the draft normative act, provided that the obligation to draw up such an assessment arises from separate provisions. This is due to the need to ensure consistency with the current legal situation and the possible elimination of interpretation doubts which could arise after the entry into force of the provision. The draft Law of Entrepreneurs is the implementation of the Responsible Development Plan and the Responsible Development Strategy. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] which will regulate in a holistic and consistent manner the general principles of doing business in Poland and which, by creating favourable, transparent and stable conditions for doing business and strengthening the guarantee of freedom and the rights of entrepreneurs, will reduce business risks and increase the willingness of entrepreneurs to take up and pursue business activities, including technological risks associated with the implementation of innovative projects. The Law on Business Freedom has already been amended 90 times and has become illegible and inconsistent. The right of entrepreneurs is to maintain the primacy over other laws governing economic activity. The most important provisions are the introduction of the principle of "what is not prohibited," the principles of presumption of integrity of the trader, the principles of friendly interpretation of the rules, the principles of proportionality, the principles of information provision, the appointment of a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Act introduces the so-called. start-up package for young companies, the possibility of dealing with some simple official matters by phone, e-mail or other means of communication and gradually eliminates REGON. The company's identification number will be the NIP. A catalogue of forms of regulation of economic activities has been organized. A catalogue of basic rules has also been created to guide the creation of economic law. Ministers and central authorities will issue legal explanations which will be written in simple language to facilitate the application of the most difficult rules. The institution of individual interpretation was also maintained, restrictions were introduced on the control of the exercise of economic activity. It is also an obligation to seek to limit the imposition of administrative obligations and information obligations, as well as the principle of minimum implementation of European Union law and international law, which is understood as meaning that the projector is obliged to avoid over-regulation of the areas covered by the implementing rules beyond what is necessary for their proper implementation. The Law of Entrepreneurs was designed with the assumption that it is not only intended to constitute the main core of the legal framework for business activities, but is also intended to be a reference to the interpretation and application of the provisions of related legal acts. The aim is to simplify and shorten the new legislation governing the rights of entrepreneurs so that it contains only general, key provisions for them. In conclusion, after considering the Government's draft Entrepreneur's Law Act at the Extraordinary Commission on Deregulation on 12 January 2018, the committee asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u248	Thank you, sir. I ask Mr Piotr King to present the report of the committee in print 2052. [[There's no envoy.]] I would ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present the report of the committee in print 2189.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I am pleased to present a report from the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation on the Government's draft Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur. At its 53rd meeting on 8 December, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation for consideration. Some 40 amendments were decided by the Commission during the detailed examination of the project. The part was substantive, the majority - legislative and editorial. The Act has 67 articles and is part of the business constitution project, part of the business constitution package which is part of the It mainly consists of the exemption to a separate legal act of procedural, technical and organisational provisions concerning the Central Register and Information on Economic Activity and a single point of contact from the existing law, which will cease to function - the Law on the Freedom of Business Activity. According to the idea of the draft constitution, the business constitution package, the said legislation will be repealed and will take over the right of entrepreneurs. The Act clarifies certain concepts. The Act also provides for the possibility of introducing procura into the central register - this possibility appeared for entrepreneurs who are natural persons. Ladies and gentlemen! Details were already discussed at first reading. I am only asking you on behalf of the committee, the High Sejm, to adopt the report and to adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u250	Thank you very much. We return to Mr Peter the King, who will present the committee's report in print 2052. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to speak on behalf of the committee on the Government's draft law on the Ombudsman of Small and Medium Enterprises, prints No. 2052 and 2088. Let me just briefly remind you that this project concerns the comprehensive regulation of the Ombudsman's institutions of small and medium-sized enterprises and is part of the so-called. a package of constitutions for business, the aim of which is to implement the constitutional principle of freedom of business and other constitutional principles important for entrepreneurs, as well as to introduce changes in Polish economic reality. I would like to say that during the Extraordinary Commission meeting, amendments of an editorial and legislative nature were tabled to the draft. On behalf of the committee, I ask the High Sejm to adopt this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u252	Thank you very much. Ms Anna April will present the committee's report in print 2190. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the deregulation committee, a report on the work of the committee, in print no. 2190, on the governmental draft law on the rules of participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in economic trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland, print no. 2054. The draft law entered the Sejm on 21 November 2017. On 23 November it was addressed to the first reading, which took place at its 53rd meeting on 8 December. After first reading, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for Deregulation for consideration. The Commission considered this proposal on 12 January together with other draft laws which fill in a package called the Business Constitution. Print Law No 2054 collects in 44 articles regulations concerning foreign entrepreneurs. The project sets out the rules for the taking up and pursuit of business activity by foreign persons in Poland as well as for the creation of branches and representations. Thanks to this law, there is an opportunity to eliminate doubts regarding the conditions under which foreign companies can engage in business activity in Poland. We hope that this will help to increase the activity of foreigners living in Poland or foreign investors who do not formalise their activity in KRS, and to increase economic activity in our country. The project brings together the provisions implementing the Services Directive and the provisions of the Freedom of Business Act concerning foreign persons, branches and representatives of foreign entrepreneurs. In addition to maintaining existing solutions, the bill introduces a number of changes beneficial to entrepreneurs, and the consistency of this project creates the possibility of repealing two laws: the Act of 4 March 2010 on the provision of services in the territory of the Republic of Poland and the Archaic Act of 6 July 1982 on the principles of conducting business activity in the territory of the Polish People's Republic in the field of small manufacturing by foreign legal and natural persons. High Seym! During the process of the law, proposals for 46 editorial corrections were made by the Legislative Office. The proposed adjustments were accepted by the committee in a large majority. The bill was adopted by the committee without a vote of objection. I would like to recommend to the High House, on behalf of the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, the adoption of Print Law 2054. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u254	Thank you very much. And Mr Michał Cieślak, please present the report of the committee in print 2199. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the pleasure and the honour to submit a report by the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation relating to the government draft Law on Business Law and other laws on business activities in the field of legislation implementing the Law, print No. 2051, 2187. The Council of Ministers adopted a draft Law on the introduction of the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws on economic activity submitted by the Minister for Development and Finance. The project will ensure implementation into the Polish legal system of solutions provided for in the laws of the business constitution package. The Business Constitution will replace the Freedom of Business Act, which is today a central act of economic law. The pillar of the business constitution is a package of five laws introduced by the government, which is to be the legal basis for the creation and development of Polish entrepreneurship. The Business Law project introduces a catalogue of rules governing business relations with the state, e.g. such as: which is not prohibited by law, the principle of presumption of honesty of the trader and the principle of proportionality is allowed. Another proposal is a runway for new companies, which consists of two solutions: so-called. non-registered activity - activities with small income without the need to register forms, and relief for start-up - half a year without the need to register the company and half a year without social security contributions for beginners. This law is supposed to bring almost PLN 8 billion in savings to companies within 10 years. With the consent of the entrepreneur, some simple official matters can be handled by phone or email. The Authority will thus be able to inform quickly e.g. the need to report annexes or ready to receive documents. The REGON number will be gradually withdrawn from the market. The basic identification number of the entrepreneur will be the NIP. The project also allows for a very flexible suspension of business activities for longer periods than currently foreseen for 24 months or for an indefinite period. The rights of entrepreneurs guaranteed in the business constitution will be protected by the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. He will be able to, for example. apply to the Minister for clarification of the most complex rules and intervene when the rights of entrepreneurs are violated. The business constitution also includes a proposal for a new law on the principles of participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in trade in Poland. Until now, these regulations have been inconsistent and scattered in three different laws, and now foreign investors will receive one comprehensive legal act. The implementation of the legal arrangements provided for in the business constitution provides for the draft implementing rules. The draft Law Introducing the Law will replace the current Law of 2 July 2004 on freedom of business with a view to rebuilding and reforming legislation concerning the institutional environment of entrepreneurs and their business activities. The Law of 2 July 2004 on freedom of economic activity has been in force since 2004. As a result of numerous amendments, the changes have become opaque and do not achieve their basic objective: to be a set of principles of economic law. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce solutions that will give a new impetus to the development of Polish entrepreneurship. At the same time, the new solutions proposed in the Business Law Act require changes in many specific laws, so it is proposed to draw up rules implementing the Business Law Act. This project is examined together with the draft Business Law Act, because the introductory provisions are secondary to the provisions of the draft Business Law Act and do not, in principle, contain spontaneous solutions of a substantive nature. Today, this draft law brings together scattered regulations contained in more than 180 laws governing economic space in Poland. I repeat: in 180 laws, not so much regulations and other legal acts, but in laws that regulate economic space in Poland. This draft law essentially brings together all these provisions in a single act. The proper vaccination of all major projects in the Polish legal system is to be carried out by the introductory law. In addition to making a number of amendments to the specific laws relating to the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises, non-registered activities, relief to start, with a change of reference or a transfer of provisions on regulated activities, it provides for it also provides solutions to facilitate businesses' activities, including the possibility for an entrepreneur who is a natural person to provide procura, as well as the introduction into the Code of Administrative Procedure of amendments to the principle of ensuring the quality of the services of the parties to proceedings and the extension of the number of deformed ways of dealing with official matters. The first of the proposed changes was initially processed as exclusive to the Law of Entrepreneurs. Later, however, it was decided to make it universal and to refer to all administrative procedures. The second objective is to improve and speed up the process of handling official matters, so that it will be possible, with the agreement of the party, to handle the matter by electronic means, which I mentioned earlier. The repeal of the Anachronic Act of 1982 on the principles of conducting economic activity in the territory of the Polish People's Republic in the field of small-scale manufacturing by foreign legal and natural persons and an indication of how to adapt the form of conducting business activities by entities acting on the basis of it, changes in the laws referring to the Polish People's Republic and its institutions introducing references to the current legal order and the appropriate name of the State - it also contains provisions of this legal act. Let me conclude by saying that this is a long-awaited set of rules that harmonises economic space with one legal act. I can say with satisfaction that 229 articles have been accepted by the committees with practically no reservations, except for the editorial corrections of the Legislative Bureau. The Commission recommends that the High Sejm adopt the committee's report on the government draft law Rules introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other business-related laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u256	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 10 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Wojciech Murdzk to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Some things in the speeches will repeat themselves, but I think it is worth it to sound, because this is indeed a very important change that we are making. The business constitution in the package of five laws significantly changes the economic reality in our country, taking part in the Responsible Development Strategy and implementing the constitutional principle of freedom of business. The business constitution will replace the existing law on freedom of business, which is today the central act of economic law, and which, as we have heard, has seen more than 90 amendments since 2004. Work on this package of laws lasted almost 2 years. Pre-consultation and public consultations have identified the main challenges facing the Polish business. Draft laws were also addressed to the opinion of the Social Dialogue Council. Their main assumptions were adopted by the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers. The drafts were also welcomed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. The distribution of legislation in five legal acts linked to each other structurally and substantively is intended to give them better and more transparent systems and to organise them properly. This procedure also causes that none of the draft laws is unnecessarily long and excessively complicated, thus fulfilling the request of entrepreneurs regarding the need to maintain the conciseness and factuality of legal acts in the field of Polish economic law. The foundation of the whole package is the Business Law Act. This law contains a catalogue of general principles relating to economic law. These rules, despite their generality, have a real impact on all types of business proceedings, including controls and tax procedures. These principles include the principle: which is not prohibited by law, the principle of the presumption of fairness of the trader, the principle of a friendly interpretation of the rules and the settlement of factual doubts for the benefit of the trader, the principle of legal certainty, i.e. not giving rise without a legitimate reason to the established practice of resolving cases - this principle ensures the predictability of the conduct of the administration and protects them from excessive discretion by the authorities, the principle of proportionality, i.e. not imposing unjustified burdens on the trader. The draft law redefines economic activity, introduces non-registered activity, which responds to doubts arising in administrative practice as to when small commercial activities meet the requirements that qualify it as an economic activity. The project provides a relief for the start. This relief provides that beginners could be exempted from compulsory social security for the first 6 months of their business and would then benefit from the so-called. a small ZUS on general principles. Legal explanations will be introduced and the trader who applies them will not be able to bear the negative consequences. Ministers and bodies submitting draft legal acts to the Council of Ministers will be able to issue legal explanations of their own motion or at the request of the Ombudsman of small and medium-sized enterprises. The primary identifier will be the NIP number and there will be a systematic withdrawal of the REGON number. An entrepreneur who is a natural person will be able to suspend his activity for any period of time specified or indefinite. There will be a systematisation of forms of regulation, with the distinction of concessions, permits and registers of regulated activities. The Act also introduces rules for drafting draft normative acts in the field of economic law. Under the next law, a spokesman for small and medium-sized enterprises will be appointed. He shall be appointed for a single 6-year term by the President of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, after consulting representative employers' organisations. Within its remit, the Ombudsman will have the right: to apply for a legislative initiative; to apply for the so-called. Legal explanations; make an assessment of the functioning of legal acts relating to economic life; ask the Supreme Court to resolve a discrepancy in the interpretation of the law; ask the Supreme Administrative Court to clarify the legal provisions; request administrative proceedings, bring actions before the administrative court, participate in prosecutions on the rights of the prosecutor; lodge an emergency complaint with the Supreme Court; request the initiation of pre-trial proceedings in cases of criminal offences initiated ex officio; inform the supervisory authorities or audit authorities of irregularities; mediate between traders and public administrations; submit assessments and proposals to ensure effective protection of the rights of traders and to improve the procedure for dealing with cases in this respect. The next act is the Act on Central Registration and Information on Economic Activity and Information Point for the Entrepreneur. CEIDG will include business records and business information. The publication by the trader in CEIDG of information on the proxy will be equivalent to the granting of a power of attorney in writing. It will be possible to automatically resume business activity after the suspension period. The relevant data will be made available without burdening the trader. New communication channels will be created with entrepreneurs. The Entrepreneur's Information Point will be a source of complete information and must not contain references to other provisions. It shall contain information on the rules and conditions for carrying out inspections and inspections with traders. The point will allow to obtain certificates of non-payment of social security contributions, health insurance, the Labour Fund and the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund and of non-payment with tax obligations and will allow the payment of a tax fee. Another project is a law on the rules of participation of foreign entrepreneurs and other foreign persons in trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The project collects, systematizes and corrects the provisions contained so far in two different laws, i.e. the Business Freedom Act and the Services Act of 2010. It shall establish the entry of a representative for a fixed period, i.e. for a period of 2 years, which will ensure that the alert is kept up to date. It allows for the waiver of information about the person authorised in the branch to represent it, as well as the obligation to attach a notarially certified signature pattern. When registering, he shall exempt from the obligation to submit his entitlement to use the premises for the purpose of the headquarters of the representative office. The decision to prohibit the conduct of business shall be replaced by the deletion from the register of delegations. And the last project - Provisions introducing the Law of Entrepreneurs and other laws concerning business activity. These provisions reflect the amendments made to more than 180 laws. Among other things, they enable a businessman who is a natural person to provide procura. They improve the quality of service of the parties to proceedings, increase the number of deformed ways of dealing with cases, enable the handling of cases by electronic means. They repeal the provisions of the 1982 Act on the principles of conducting economic activity in the territory of the Polish People's Republic in the field of small manufacturing by foreign entities. They amend the laws referring to the Polish People's Republic and its institutions, introducing references to the current legal order and the proper name of the Polish State. It should also be pointed out that all the laws were assessed by the Committee on the Economy, those opinions are opinions that speak of not submitting comments, they are positive opinions, even though there were various proposals for possible corrections, which were the subject of an in-depth discussion. The Law and Justice Club positively, I could say, and even very positively opinion the package of laws named: the Business Constitution. In the name of the club on hand [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm making some adjustments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u258	Which project? [[For such excellent drafts of amendment?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u259	Amendments to Project No. 2051, 2052...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u260	Here we go. Here we go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u261	...and 2053.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u262	2051, 2052 and 2053. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u263	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u264	Three?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u265	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u266	Okay, thank you very much. And I would like to ask Maria Margaret Janyska to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With regard to the projects that are being discussed here today, 5 projects, we have received, we have set time in the debate for 10 minutes. That's a very good thing, ladies and gentlemen, because it was originally supposed to be five minutes, so you should probably be glad that we got two minutes per bill. In this term of office, we are used to express speed, here the express is concerned with laws supposedly very important, key, laws which should be analysed here in Parliament in very detail and very precisely. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, as we are all here, we are responsible for the shape in which they will ultimately come out, the effects they will have, and whether they are as they were actually assumed, and whether all the proposals of the social parties have been heard. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I am making a number of amendments to these projects, which have been named, even here today, during the statements of the predecessors, have been recommended in such a way that they really change economic reality. Ladies and gentlemen, they do not change the economic reality. There were many words here, also in the speeches of my previous speakers: it gathers, moves, from one law separates into other laws, settles. And indeed beyond a few novelties, which will result in an analysis of how they are written and whether they will have consequences. Or not, you could say, they don't matter much. This project is such a combination, transfer and name. It's even said there's a restriction on control. No restriction of control is introduced, but the title of the chapter is introduced, which is called the "Control of Activity" in the existing Law on the Freedom of Business, and at the moment a new wording is introduced: "Restriction of Control," which does not mean that any rules have been introduced that would restrict this control of business activity. I'll pass on these amendments so I don't forget.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u268	To which...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u269	That's what it says.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u270	He's inside, isn't he? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u271	On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki today, who started working on this package, which was noisyly called a constitution for business - of course it is not such a legal act at all - and he said this: we have such ambition that you - it was for entrepreneurs - rely on the law established by our government, by our parliament, by the Polish state. It's fundamental that we can rely on that right. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the regulations that are in this law, which were to be novelty and which were about to make it possible to rely on this law, are not going to be able to rely on because nothing here has been introduced in relation to the problems that, within the two years of this term of office, have been defined by entrepreneurs as the biggest and most important barriers to their economic activity, including that they have weakened their tendency to invest in this term of office. That is why we have proposed amendments here, which introduce good rules, which oblige the Act to prepare assessments of the impact of legal acts on entrepreneurs, and not just, as stated in this draft, the provisions of economic law. 'Cause what is that, ladies and gentlemen, now is the rule of economic law? Who will qualify and define this? Here's an example. The Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers is currently working on a bill on the transparency of public life. Is this a business law project? Probably not, probably it is not, because, as the entrepreneurs emphasize, it was not addressed to them for consultation, for opinion. It was received by the trade unions. Meanwhile, according to this project, among others. undertakes to implement anti-corruption policies on the basis of non-precise rules, non-precise rules, but for incorrect implementation of these policies and therefore - the use of an authority which will control according to its own subjective assessment will be able to impose very large penalties on entrepreneurs. In parallel with the work on this package, I would ask you, that this House be rushed, without opinion, without analysis, without consultation, by force, by knee, with projects which have restricted freedom and freedom of economic activity. You have to remind them all the time, always remind them. The important question arises: Will these provisions therefore be restored to its original state? It goes on here, for example. the limitation of business activities in the running of pharmacies, the restriction of business activity in trade, the famous restriction of trade on Sunday, the Act on the agricultural system which limits the activity in this respect to individual farmers only. Question. Today there are such declarations, but tomorrow there may be restrictions for further professional groups, for companies that have medical rescue, for architects, for urbanists or experts. Who can guarantee that if there is no safety valve in this bill that will inhibit the resorts in such freedom of creation and legal care? Entrepreneur's law, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately also introduces restrictions or shifts the standard, but less this standard moves, this principle... Some of them were mentioned here, for example. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10 or 11 in the relevant paragraphs, the principle of trust in the trader, i.e. the settlement of legal or factual doubts in favour of the trader, if they are legal or factual, will not apply because of the important public interest, including the essential interests of the State. What's this? Who's gonna judge that? Who's gonna define it? So, once again, the department will be able to discuss it and introduce rules any day at a time. Another very important thing. In the Law on the Freedom of Business, licensing or licensing was described quite precisely, enumeratively the areas in which, for example, they apply. concessions, and it was not possible to resortly add other areas, because they would then have to be included in this law as well. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, it disappears from this law, which means one can expect that suddenly from day to day according to fantasy, according to one's, I don't know, closer to undefined business will also be possible to change this licensing. A spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises - this is what Mrs Nykiel will talk about. I'm only gonna say one thing: it has to be fixed. He's supposed to have no power, he's supposed to have rights - he's supposed to have rights. Therefore, there must be another system of appointment, other competences. We propose that you adopt a comprehensive regulation here. Non-registered activities - I will only touch this problem, ladies and gentlemen. It also closes here to some people who have been doing business recently on the basis of this tool... If, for example, they've been doing a lot of business, they've given up, and now they'd like to do some sort of incident, individual things, they can't do that anymore, because they've been running in the last 60 months. There's a lot more to these comments. I will, of course, present them in very detail in the committee today, and they are in these amendments. And now for the spokesperson for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, Mrs. Nykiel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u272	Other part of the time spent performing the club just for Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u273	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The project presented to the High Sejm certainly does not deserve the title of a constitution. Not only does it not bring anything new, because it duplicates the Freedom of Business Act, as Mrs Janyska said, but also, worse than that, divides entrepreneurs into better and worse. I would like to address the issue of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. Well, first of all, why just small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and not all entrepreneurs? Why are large businesses already discriminated against at the outset? If it's true that a big businessman is doing well on his own, then he won't be burdening the Ombudsman. But if there's a case in which he wants the Ombudsman's support, why are you denying him that right? Secondly, if the Ombudsman is to serve entrepreneurs well, he must be appointed by the Sejm, as must the Ombudsman, and not by the Council of Ministers. His position... He should be independent because if he has to decide on matters such as the state institution - the entrepreneur and if he is dependent on government bodies and not in a strong position, then we know what the decisions will be. Thirdly, the Ombudsman's powers should be strengthened. I mean, Minister, this initial provision, which was in this first plan - limitation and for legitimate reasons interrupting the control of entrepreneurs. Why did you deprive the spokesperson of even this privilege? Last but not least, there's a lot of noise, propaganda, and it's like the mountain gave birth to a mouse again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u274	Thank you very much. And now the Kukiz Club15. You are beginning Mr Jakub Kulesza. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u275	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I agree with you that we have waited a long time for such a constitution for the real business, to follow the Wilczek bill. Unfortunately, instead, we received a constitution for bureaucracy, rather small. As an MEP, I talk to micro-entrepreneurs every day, small entrepreneurs, medium-sized, big, even the owners of international corporations and ask them what they need. I always hear the same thing: less laws, less regulations, less bureaucracy, less officials, less taxes. Those little guys. The most complain about the thieving and lump-sum ZUS. Unfortunately, what we have received from the government in the form of these laws is another thousand pages of laws, successive regulations, and the appointment of another office, which I will also say. In the history of Poland since the Wilczek Act is the third comprehensive act on entrepreneurs, which was supposed to reform fundamental rights and obligations. In connection with each of them, entrepreneurs have always had great hopes. There are still 160 amendments to these laws. Unfortunately, all these hopes of entrepreneurs were burning each time. I have the impression that this constitution for business will be the same as the previous ones. First of all, this bill breaks all this matter into a few laws. In my view, this is classic legal inflation. Secondly, the project does not contain any very important regulation that clarifies many inconspicuous phrases, such as good faith, due diligence. In several interviews, I asked the Minister of Finance to respond to what it means to be careful. I even received a promise that it would be explained, it would be defined. It's still not there. Of course, it is about the due diligence of both the businessman and the official. What is the important interest of the state? What is the same factual and legal situation? These laws don't regulate it. In addition, this constitution for business introduces many more vague and indeterminate expressions. As far as the various laws are concerned, there are a few minor positive aspects, such as: simplifying the definition of economic activity. It's just that this simplified definition isn't really going very well. A cool idea for non-registered activities, only a shame that there is such a low threshold, at 50% minimum wage. But it should be at least 100%. The principle of liability of officials does not bring anything new into Polish law, and it would be good if the rules of the Constitution for business included also the liability of officials for the damage done, because it hurts the most entrepreneurs. A relief to start - an interesting idea, it's a pity it's so short. Legal explanations - in my opinion another unnecessary institution supposed to facilitate the movement of legislation in the maze. We have laws, we have resolutions, we have regulations, we have interpretations, we will have explanations. This will not stop the main problem of overproduction. I could go on like this, but I'm gonna focus on the entrepreneur's spokesperson, and I'm just gonna talk about this new office. Entrepreneurs really do not need more offices, and if we want to do so - I have tabled such amendments - first of all, let us introduce the role of spokesperson for all entrepreneurs, not just small and medium-sized ones. [[Yes, sir.]] There are entrepreneurs who are big entrepreneurs in Poland, but on a global scale they are micro-entrepreneurs... [[That's it.]] ...because they compete with huge companies, giants. Therefore, once again, I am making amendments that this office should be located outside Warsaw, in Nowy Sącz, within the framework of the deagglomeration strategy. I'm making these amendments. The amendments also propose an extension of the Ombudsman's powers. We have taken account, Minister, of some of your comments from the previous committee, of these amendments. I hope that today, on the committee, we can talk about these amendments. There's one thing I'd like to say. The Minister said that these amendments had already been included in the committee under the motto: on the rights of the prosecutor. No, because that is the result of the Act on Competition and Consumer Protection. E.g. the decision of the President of the Office shall not be subject to legal remedies which touch on the decisions provided for in the Code of Administrative Procedure and on such grounds shall be operated by the Advocate of Entrepreneurs. So we'd like the spokesperson to have at least fangs and be able to defend entrepreneurs, not just look dangerous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u276	Thank you. Mr Marek Jakubiak, also a Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u277	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Thank you very much as an entrepreneur for leaning on the difficult fate of the entrepreneur in Poland. I'm very happy, the more that two years ago I heard here such rhetoric that entrepreneurs are thieves. It is very happy that our hard work is appreciated. To sum up this whole bill, which is almost a book, I want to say that the constitution for business is just about to improve, not change. The crazy thing is that you're burying yourselves in paperwork and ideas, and yet how tax law had to be interpreted, so it has to be interpreted. An entrepreneur's spokesman is even admitting that we have an imperfect right, because someone has to represent an entrepreneur, because an entrepreneur is no longer able to do so. So we should think about how to write this law from the beginning, and in line with a simple, one-on-one and uncomplicated tax. CIT, although income costs are increased, is still illegible. All we're talking about is interpretation, which is at the expense of income and what's not, what's income and what's not income, how to make money, how to make money. This is all bullshit. Today, the entrepreneur wastes too much time filling out papers, wondering whether he has a responsibility or not, and attention, there is a new problem on the market - a lack of accountants. Guess why. Because even accountants today do not understand what is happening in Polish legislation on economic law. We're really wasting something important. We have the possibility of introducing a 1% or 2% tax, whatever, a mandatory tax, without the cost of obtaining revenue. Europe is already thinking about it. Why shouldn't Poland be the first country to approach it in such an innovative way? I answer - today, the flat-rate tax paid by natural persons engaged in an economic activity is such a tax. There are no comments on 100 controls 99. That's not what you should look at, it's what you bring in. Minister, I am directing this to you, appreciating your knowledge and skills. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u278	Thank you. The remaining time will take Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister! Wide matter - 1 000. pages, so I'm going to allow myself some kind of comparison. Well, I will allow me to compare Polish entrepreneurs to children who grow with the free market in Poland for almost 30 years. You, on the other hand, act all the time like an overzealous mother who lets that kid ride a bicycle, but not only doesn't let him take off the side wheels, he still runs that kid on a stick so he doesn't drive God's gun too fast so he doesn't drive away so he doesn't have to be alone. That's no way to act. Polish entrepreneurs today are almost 30-year-old men and women, if you compare this. Do I look like a child? Do I need a stick like that to ride my bike freely? As a 30-year-old man, I want to ride my bike freely, on big wheels, not on small circles. Similarly, Polish entrepreneurs want to go to wide waters, to wide fields, to develop, to compete, while the state is still acting like an overzealous parent. You know very well that there will never be anything good out of this overzealousness. If around us, around Polish legislators do not have such an overzealous approach, they allow their entrepreneurs to develop, then how should Polish entrepreneurs compete with Western Europeans? Another question: How do we work with the European Union, which tries to put the second stick in our mouths so that God's weapons do not go too fast? If it turns out that e.g. A businessman starts to pose a threat, competition for his competitors in Germany, France, Italy, and that's when the European institutions put a stick in our mouths. So, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this: the rules that were intended to facilitate business activity in Poland - 1 000. The pages of the project, the constitution, which is broken into five legal acts, are some free jokes. The Constitution should be clear, simple, legible. Polish entrepreneurs would gain much more if you took 1 000. the parties to the legislation on which they must act than if you have them [[♪ The bell ♪]] $1,000. pages add. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u280	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few good and warm words about what we are working on today and what we are discussing, and I am pleased to present the position of the Modern Club regarding a package of laws called the constitution for business. Modern as a party that considers itself a representative of business environments, but also active people, will always support those solutions that make life easier for entrepreneurs, and that is why we are always looking at such solutions and such legal acts as to whether it is really so that they facilitate them. And I'll be honest with you, there's some doubt here. The project was prepared during the previous coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. It should be stressed that it was good that it did not end up in the basket after the PiS took power, but started working on it, because some of the solutions contained there are actually reasonable. It has been consulted extensively with employers' organisations. During this consultation, some comments were taken into account, not all. Therefore, the question is whether he really meets the expectations. Because if you ask entrepreneurs what they would prefer, whether you would get such a constitution for business, whether you could withdraw bank tax, cadastral tax on large commercial areas or 30 times in the case of ZUS, which has also been voted out, etc., etc., then I guess you would rather choose this second solution, i.e. the elimination of the tax burdens that make life difficult for them. But going back to these laws, I would like to draw attention to those things that are important in our view. Namely here it has been raised that these records are not in many precise places, and therefore their interpretation may vary. It is, let's say, a formulation such as the important social interest in the article. 10 and 11, the prevention or prevention of criminal offences and tax offences in Article. 48, 49, 54, 55. These rules may remain dead if they are so imprecise. Of course, there was a lot of controversy about undeclared business. Because it can really encourage people who do a little to the left of their business by tutoring without reporting whether or not they're selling vegetables from their parcel at the market. This will cause them to stop fearing, and they will be able to function normally. I hope that when they get more turnover, they'll report it as a business, just a question of whether we have control options to see if it's $1,000. zloty is actually made by someone within a month or 1,000. He's making money in a week. We can't find that out. As far as the bill of the Law of Entrepreneurs is concerned, this is the issue - we bring it in the form of an amendment - that the provision which suggested that the authorities should seek an amicable settlement of disputes, namely settlement, mediation has been removed. Of course, this possibility appeared in front of the Ombudsman, while the Ombudsman may undertake mediation, he may not take it. Well, this entry in the bill would be quite precise after improvement and would oblige it to take such action. And there's the matter of those entries to the KRS. Entrepreneurs are very complaining that these procedures are sometimes very, very long and that they expect entries into the KRS for no one knows how long. So here we suggest, however, that this record be concrete, so that this maximum period of 30 days is preserved on this issue. As far as further laws are concerned, i.e. the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, we are also of the opinion that this should be the act on the spokesperson for the rights of entrepreneurs, should not be limited only to small and medium-sized enterprises. It's been lifted and we agree. To be honest, there is no doubt that the spokesman who will be appointed and appointed by the Prime Minister and yet suggested by the Minister for Development does not guarantee entrepreneurs that he will be objective. No, it doesn't. Let us agree that, indeed, when there is a dispute of such a particular nature between an entrepreneur and a government administration, it is generally known that it will rather stand in the position that it is necessary to protect the interests of the state and not the entrepreneurs, because that is the case. Therefore, the solution that this would be a calling as a result of the Sejm's decision would be much, much better. And it would also be good to be able to be appointed from among the candidates that employers' organisations, institutions and associations report. So we'll be in favour of trying this again during the committee's work today. As far as the other acts are concerned, they actually collect a little bit from different laws and put them into a single act. On the other hand, I will not hide that I remember the Wilczek Act, which had 54 articles and carried out such a revolution on a good matter, moving us from one system to another system. This could be done very briefly and so far, I believe, one of the better laws that opened up the possibility for Poles to operate in the field of the economy. In conclusion, we have reservations here, we are making amendments, we will see how they will be treated in committee work. In general, as I said, if it turns out that these regulations will help entrepreneurs to clarify things, some doubts, make their lives easier, take off this bureaucratic and bureaucratic ballast and make it easier for them, then you can admit that these laws have produced the expected effect. We're giving it a chance. We will therefore, on the basis of the results of the work in the subcommittee, decide to support or abstain from voting in respect of these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u282	Thank you very much. And Mr Paweł Kobyliński.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u283	Dear Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! Some time ago, we adopted a bill on the establishment of an entrepreneur's day, and much of it did not follow. I hope that this bill will result in much more, although I believe, my dear Minister, that it is not going as far as it could go. What do we need? We need a decisive, thorough reform of the tax system. Not one where we have a huge amount of legislation, we don't know what to do and what to do, but a decisive reform. Mr Jakubiak has already spoken about this here. We must return to binding legal interpretation. I understand that there are explanations, but it's still not going to solve these problems in my opinion. We need to put in place a clear tax system, an administrative system, a licensing system, permits, all the other things. We need to get back to the principle, to the idea that at one time there can only be one control. Now it's completely blurry. We need to increase official responsibility, because officials are not responsible for their often wrong decisions all the time. As far as the spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs is concerned, much has been said here, but, ladies and gentlemen, money can always be spent. You can always spend 18 million, you can hire 75 people as it is in this bill, but you may want to start modestly with one room, a few people and see how many things to do, and not immediately spend several million zlotys and create dozens of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will support these solutions to a large extent, because there is no denying that they are going in the right direction, but I urge you to be even more consistent and even more courageous. I can't say no to the consequences because you can. If you want, you can do it. In this respect, I believe that such things, where, in general, ladies and gentlemen... Please note that, despite some criticism, we all agree on the direction of change. This also means that if you were to introduce this reform much more thoroughly, we would probably have much better results and there would be no fuss in this House, as is often the case with various other laws, but we could definitely work better and finally clean up this stable of Augeus' rules. I understand that this law is binding 180 laws, that is, of course, right, but I still don't think it solves a structural problem, doesn't sort out this whole mess in tax regulations, VAT mess, different VAT rates, where mustard sauce, mustard and ketchup have different VAT rates. These are the biggest problems, and I think that's what we should fight in this Seym. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u285	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club in relation to the report of the deregulation committee on the drafts of the five laws on the titles mentioned at the beginning by the Marshal. High Seym! Of these five laws, as it were, in a set, in a package, the Law of Print No. 2051 The Law of Entrepreneurs appears to be the leading law. At least that was the assumption. This law also raised perhaps the most general remarks, but it also seemed that the most amendments were made to it. A very comprehensive letter with reservations and comments to this law has been submitted, among others. Chief Labour Inspector and, to be honest, going to his sucurs Association of Labour Inspectors of the Republic of Poland. In both letters, both proposals refer to the wording of the article. 65 in chapter 5 of the Proceded Print Act, as I said, no 2051 of the new point 3, which refers to the exclusion from the regulation of this chapter of the control carried out under the Act of 13 April 2007 on State Labour Inspection, and as a justification it is stated that supervision of working conditions is a constitutional obligation of the Republic of Poland, implemented through specialised public bodies, including in particular the State Labour Inspection. In particular, the legislator has imposed supervisory and control tasks on the institution, compliance with labour law, in particular health and safety regulations and the legality of employment. And this task, as the applicants are motivated by, should be governed by rules laying down rules for the conduct of checks by the authorities of the State Labour Inspection. High Seym! I hold this longer opinion, because as also a member of the Committee on State Control I have heard translations many times, even complaining to representatives of the State Labour Inspection about difficulties in carrying out effective controls. It is worth noting here that the deregulation committee did not consider the proposals made to be justified. Since I am at Chapter 5 of the Law of Entrepreneurs, I must admit that the Employers of the Republic of Poland, who have also submitted quite a comprehensive letter and who are quite critical of the provisions of this chapter, and in particular of its extensiveness, because it is true that the same chapter, which is entitled just as colleagues have already said here: The restriction of control of business activity, is written on 17 of 37 pages of the entire Law of Entrepreneurs. This comparison is important because, as entrepreneurs are motivated, the size of this chapter is proof of numerous exceptions to the general rules restricting controls. As the entrepreneurs claim - it is difficult for them not to agree - too many entries have been transferred directly from the previously criticised law on freedom of economic activity, criticized precisely for the progressive restrictions of this freedom of economic activity due to further exceptions to the rules contained therein. High Izbo! I would also like to refer, on behalf of my club, to the Law on this package, on No. 2052, the Act on spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that the opinion about the project - about the idea, about the case, could be something - is not the result of any substantive reflections, but is just a pure political game. Why am I so judgmental? My clubmate, Mieczysław Kasprzak, presented on behalf of the club - he did so not so long ago, on 22 June 2016 - a draft act on the spokesperson of entrepreneur's rights in content, in an idea very similar to the one presented in print No. 2052. And what did we hear from the representatives of Law and Justice? Traditional: 8 years and the fact that there is an ombudsman and let him deal with these business matters. Of course, this project - with pain I say - has been asked to reject at first reading has been consummated. For the doubters, I'm in possession of a printout of a vote in case someone doesn't believe it. The question is, what has happened since the date I mentioned earlier, that today this idea is included in a package called the upper-floor constitution. I would like to say to you that we approach this idea and this work rationally and, considering this need, we will support this bill. To sum up, I'm sure, Minister, we haven't finished working on legislation for entrepreneurs to call this set a constitution for business. There is still a lot of work to be done and, what is important, good will. I guess that wasn't enough, that good will, to treat entrepreneurs like real partners. The content of Chapter 5, its extensiveness and a number of exemptions from the principle of free, safe management prove this, once again. So, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for continuing your work on our projects, the notified projects that were launched during the time of the PO-PSL government, but I would like to point out that this is the beginning and not the end of the road. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u286	Thank you very much. And I ask you to take the floor of Mr Ireneus Gaina, near Free and Solidarnia. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I am presenting my position on the Government's draft Business Law Act, or, in fact, a package of five laws which have been submitted to the High House for discussion under the collective name: the Business Constitution. As a result of the review of the current economic regulations, this package of laws was created under the collective name: the Business Constitution. Laws meet the need to merge in these five legal acts legislation on the broad economic sphere. There is a reflection on the extent to which the proposed regulations are complementary to the new state policy concerning Polish economic operators and foreign entities. Let us remind you that the policies implemented by previous governments were indeed the implementation of the doctrine of economic dependence, namely that developed countries They get rich at the expense of poorer countries. This led to a dichotomy between low-income outermost countries and high-income countries despite GDP growth in nominally developing countries. As a result, the difference in economic structure between developed countries and developing countries has continued to grow. Professor Thomas Piketty, one of the most famous and valued economists in the world, says today: Poland is an economically colonized country. The current government is going to reverse this phenomenon. He sees an opportunity for Poland to reindustrialise industry and strengthen those sectors that can exploit relative competitive advantages. In this way, growth and convergence can be accelerated by using economic niches in an open, globalised economic world. This is why the Free and Solidarnia Circle supports the government's strategy for responsible development, which uses the structural economy instrumentarium. Industrial diversification, industrial modernisation consists primarily of gathering knowledge and know-how in new industrial sectors, coordinating industrially related investments, compensating for external information costs for pioneers. The integrated management of special economic zones brings good results, and foreign direct investment is being placed in increasingly technologically advanced projects. In addition, it should be noted that the proposed laws aim to improve the legal environment and reduce the risk of entrepreneurs and transaction costs for individual companies. The proposals contained in the proposed laws will stimulate the economic development process based on the accumulation of human and physical capital, thus launching a causal chain leading to industry 4.0, whose components are innovation and productivity, efficient management, advanced technologies and ethical infrastructure, legal infrastructure. The Business Constitution sets new standards for the creation and functioning of the Polish economic system. During the debate at the Extraordinary Committee on Deregulation, a number of interesting topics have emerged, among others. understanding of the public interest, the interest of the State, the income due, the actual income, mini-loan, crowdfunding, the scope of the Ombudsman's powers of small and medium-sized enterprises, the legal weight, explanations and official comments on licensing. These issues cannot be overlooked in the process of further improving the package of laws creating a business constitution. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Free and Solidarnia Circle clearly support the proposed legislative package. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u288	Would any of you like to join the list of people who are going to ask a question in this section? I can't see. I'm closing the list for that. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Civic Platform Club, will ask the question first. Time - one and a half minutes. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u289	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I request that consideration be given to increasing the independence of the spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises from the government. According to the draft law, the Ombudsman is appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for the economy, but it should be assumed that in disputes the Ombudsman will have to take a stand on the part of the trader, including against the government administration. To be absolutely effective, he must be independent. In order not to bring all of this, this office, to the list of complaints and requests, the Ombudsman may not hang out for a higher power in the person of a particular minister. The appointment of a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises is partly modelled on the ombudsman's prerogatives, but in this example we see how the government can depreciate this position according to its party interests. Therefore, in order for this to be a real representation of entrepreneurs, I would like to ask that the spokesperson of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, however, appoint the Sejm. Finally, Minister, this is no constitution for business. Business needs serious treatment by the state. Entrepreneurs don't want intervention because they know how to run their own small businesses. They need trust and transparency. The state, creating further records, gives you the opportunity to create further interpretations, both by officials, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As well as by businessmen. The clerk will always win. I would ask and appeal for a constitution, but not for entrepreneurs, but for the whole tax system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u290	Mr Antoni Duda, Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. In that case, Mrs Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am again, because I am a man who believes in good will and the Minister and all the countries that make up the right for the entrepreneur - not only for the entrepreneur, but in this case we are talking about him. I would like to appeal for three things. Firstly, to direct - it is more to the Sejm Bureau, but I know that the government also plays an important role here - rules so important for the entrepreneur to the committee, which is set up for these purposes, to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. And if there's anything else... Here Mr Meysztowicz and I have fought against the fact that the committee has leaned over these rules. Really, believe me, above all divisions, in a very cultural, balanced way - you were the Minister at all meetings - we tried to systematize our proposals and asked you not to step out of the position of the majority and to accept these proposals. Mrs Janyska presented them again in the deregulation committee. You didn't take anything into account. You haven't considered a single thing. So how are we supposed to believe in your goodwill? Once again, I ask you to lean on the most important issues concerning the Ombudsman that my previous colleague spoke about here, and those key key issues that we have highlighted as this envoy committee on these issues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because otherwise we won't vote, my club won't vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u292	Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform - another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask - these questions have already been asked, but I wanted to ask again - about the spokesperson for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who is to stand guard and guarantee the correct application of the rules and proper relations between entrepreneurs and public authorities. We are aware of the value and role of small and medium-sized enterprises for the Polish economy. It is they who build economic growth and contribute to it. Their activity increases the competitiveness of the economy. Of course, they also create new jobs. It is very important to protect small and medium-sized enterprises and to support them in implementing principles such as trust in public authority, impartiality or equal treatment and respect for good business practices and legitimate business interests. I am just thinking about these principles, which I mentioned above, and I ask the Minister: Shouldn't the Ombudsman, however, be an advocate for all economic entrepreneurs, as a guarantee of maintaining the principles that he is supposed to uphold, and which I mentioned earlier, for example. equal treatment or respect for the interests of all entrepreneurs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u294	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is not merely a matter of voting this out by the Sejm to ensure that laws like this function. The Sejm will pass this vote, some entrepreneurs will be happy, others will not, but in order for these regulations to work, it is necessary to change the official mentality, because without it, no matter what these regulations would be, if the official was really afraid to make decisions all the time, unfortunately these regulations would be dead. I have a question for the Minister. Are you trying to change this official mentality? The point is that this official should not be afraid to make decisions in favour of the entrepreneur, because he will be wondering when he will hear Minister Ziobra all the time. 6 a.m. CBA officials and the D.A.'s office are knocking on the door. I'll be honest with you, I've been in this situation myself. I was invited to a meeting at an institution that dealt with such matters, and I was asked about a situation where an official was suspected that something was wrong because he made a decision very quickly. And I said to these people, "Listen, why aren't you investigating an official who's prolonging a case that doesn't make a decision?" This is the official who should be punished, not the one who made the decision quickly. Let us consider whether this project should be followed by a little bit of a change in the attitude of officials to the rules that you are introducing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u296	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u297	Dear Marshal! Minister! Dear High Izbo! I would like to ask you what further steps you will be presenting, because the fact that there is a certain understatement on our part, this is probably where the various political options have been drafted. I'd like to ask you which way it's gonna go. For example, I will ask about a very detailed case: Will entrepreneurs still have to e.g. report to the Minister for National Defence what kind of cars they have, what capacity and where do they stand? Will they always have to have them ready because the minister can take them, and unfortunately he's even in peacetime? It's something that seems, however, psychic. Therefore, my question is concrete: When, in what time and time, will you present further solutions? Which way will they go? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u298	Mr Grzegorz Piechowiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u299	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to make that very specific. There is a very good record that speaks of this relief at the start, only doubts that may arise are: Is not paying this ZUS obligatory or optional? Do we have a situation that if someone of this ZUS... Is he gonna pay the health rate or anybody else to get that insurance? Looking at this ZUS, we're going one step ahead. This is not connected with this law, but whether it is finally foreseen that this small ZUS for these entrepreneurs, because it is kind of a consequence and going even further as far as these reliefs are concerned, especially for small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Michalek, Civic Platform. But I signed you up. Madame, I am so sorry, Law and Justice. Excuse me. [[Voice from the Chamber: Everything in front of the Member.]] But it has to be voluntary, not allocation.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u301	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, here's my question: Can we change the civil servant's mentality by law? That's the first question. Second question. Here I've heard that in this bill, there's actually nothing better in these laws. I'm talking about a foreign entrepreneur. In Poland he had so far to learn a lot of legal acts, to search, to hire special specialists to find himself in this thicket of Polish law. Will these laws make the entrepreneur have in one legal act everything he owns when setting up and running the company? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u302	Thank you. It was Mrs Iwona Michalek from the Law and Justice Club. And now Mr Tomasz Kostus, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u303	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill of the Law of Entrepreneurs is intended to comprehensively regulate issues related to the taking up, pursuit and completion of business activity in Poland. One of the key solutions covered by this regulation is confirmation, I repeat, confirmation, and not the introduction of a rule on the settlement of any doubts by administrative authorities in favour of the trader. At the same time, the legislator introduces a tightening of the application of this principle, which does not apply to it if an important public interest, including the essential interests of the State, so requires. That's the question. I ask you, Minister, to clarify how the official will be able to conclude that, in a given case, his action to the detriment of the trader is dictated by an important public interest. In other words, what does that mean? What indicators or criteria will decide that? I'm asking for an interpretation, an interpretation of this record. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u304	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The setup we are discussing is a very good solution for companies. Sometimes here we hear such voices from the opposition that it needs to be changed more revolutionaryly, fundamentally, like the Wilczek Act, but unfortunately we are already living in another reality. There is the European Union, there are directives, there is a thicket of rules in which to move. I thank the Ministry that this ant work has done and that these good solutions for companies have been adopted. But I would like to ask you a question about a very good solution for non-registered activities, which concerns small-scale commercial activities, e.g. occasional trade or occasional services. The assumption is that if the revenue does not exceed 50% the amount of the minimum wage, it is not necessary to establish an economic activity. I have a question: Is 50% the amount of the minimum salary per month will be calculated each month, whether this is any average that will result, let's say... This micro-, small entrepreneur, who has not yet registered, sells and has the highest income in December, because this is the month in which this trade even on the Internet can increase, whether at this moment he will have to run some, I don't know, registration, records that would show it. Will he already have to register this activity if he exceeds that amount in one month? I still have a question about this record, because I understand that if he has any income, he's gonna have to show that income on his annual statement. Or at this point, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it only going to be declarative, or on the basis of this record? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u306	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u307	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The breakthrough of these rules, which are contained in the constitution for business, is that there is a change in the philosophy of approach to business. I hope that in a few years or even earlier, in a few months we will be able to say that when these laws were passed, communism in Poland ended in the sense of approach to the entrepreneur, because it is very important. And here we find some of these aspects. Of course, it is not possible to decree such a change in the attitude of officials to make a change in mentality a decree, but I hope that these laws will force such a change, because we promise ourselves much after this principle of freedom, which is not prohibited, is allowed. She, let me remind you, caused such an explosion of entrepreneurship in Poland at the beginning of our transformations and today also has a chance to lead to another economic acceleration. It is good that entrepreneurs will no longer be suspected of being combinators, that they want to deceive the state, because in principle most of them want to conduct their business honestly. And that's what you have to build on, that's what you have to rely on. I want to declare that we, as part of our economic team [[♪ The bell ♪]] We will also try to collect various kinds of proposals and comments to these regulations, but also suggest new solutions, because this package certainly requires constant work on it, so that entrepreneurs in Poland are better able to gain our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u308	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. Here's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u309	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurial people, those who take matters into their own hands, who are active, should be our eye in the head, without a doubt. So far, the PiS has done everything to discourage these people from active activities, discourage them from doing business. This package of laws that appeared, of course, has been very, I would say, highly called a constitution for entrepreneurs. I would expect, Minister, rather such a constitution for this country, which you represent, a bureaucratic state, countries that burden entrepreneurs with increasingly new responsibilities, because it is not a solution to create new offices, new officials, new jobs for officials, it is not a solution to implement increasingly new solutions, which are de facto bureaucratic in some way. If you talked to these little entrepreneurs, which bothers them the most, it would turn out that these are small, small rules that create this activity simply, I apologize for the expression, a pain in the ass. And that's where we'd have to start. And I just have some questions. One of these, I would say, changes that you have proposed, was the desire to resolve disputes through mediation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] between office and business. Why did you pull out of this? Why do you want to add more responsibilities to the courts? If there was such a record, then you have to give a little bit of freedom, trust and thus try to deregulate it. Why did you pull out of this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u310	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to draw attention to some findings in the draft Act on Central Registration and Information about Economic Activity and ask the authors of this project about this subject. The draft law amends this law. This register is extremely important for the safety of economic turnover. It should be up-to-date and credible - then it will perform its function. Meanwhile, the amendments introduced in Article. 15 and Article 15 17 and Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 19 concerning the deletion of economic activities, as well as the suspension and resumption of economic activities, eliminate any time-limits which have so far been in force for these activities. The entrepreneur will be able to do it at any time, several months back, or even a year and beyond, because the law does not completely regulate it. What does this mean, and what effect can it produce? Of course, it is convenient for a single trader to delete its activities in a year or two, but the function of this register, namely the actuality and reliability, and the function for the safety of economic turnover throughout the economic system is lost. Isn't that how you pour out a baby with a bath? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause I don't think it's about keeping that register out of date. Did you ever think about that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u312	Thank you. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u313	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question from entrepreneurs operating on the basis of an entry in the business register. Whether, in the document under examination, the package of laws for entrepreneurs will include a provision on the basis of which the trader may appoint a representative who, in the event of special circumstances, e.g. death or severe illness of the entrepreneur, will take over the company's management so that it does not lose the continuity of work? There was a proposal, it was a proposal for three years. Will this record remain in the new legislative package? If so, what will it look like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u314	Thank you, ma'am. Member Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u315	Dear Marshal! Minister! My question concerns a government bill on spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Act indicates that the Ombudsman shall publish on its public information bulletin website data on the number of unallocated replies by bodies, organisations or institutions that should be given to the Ombudsman. Therefore, my question: Will this be an indication of the quantity itself, or will it be an opportunity to read the question, the nature of the request or the Ombudsman's doubts about the submissions addressed to the entity concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u316	Thank you. The last question will be asked by Mr Antoni Duda, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Proceded Law of Entrepreneurs is part of the implementation of the Plan for Responsible Development and the Strategy for Responsible Development. This legal act is to define in a coherent and holistic manner the general principles and rules for the taking-up, pursuit and termination of business. It contains regulations that are necessary for the institutional strengthening of the guarantee of freedom of business, as they will provide reliable information on the rights of entrepreneurs in their relations with public authorities and other legal entities. As one of my previous speakers rightly pointed out, we should be concerned about taking care of entrepreneurs, especially the small ones and the micro ones. And the basic question is: Will the contested law improve the situation when it comes to the possibility of doing business in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u318	Thank you. I would like to speak with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Technology of Mr Mariusz Haladyj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first difficulty that arises when I answer questions is this - I also shared here a similar personal little reflection at first reading - that it is very difficult for the High House to be satisfied that I will say so, because when we come with laws, which are very detailed in terms of specific barriers - there is an unnecessary obligation, here too often performed, too high a fee or inability to settle some public danins more quickly - then I get comments: that is not the point, there are some details, and the question where there is a system regulation. When we come with perhaps the most systemic regulation possible, because creating the foundation for economic law, the foundation that is not there today, then we hear that entrepreneurs are waiting for deregulation on specific barriers, not such general rules are expected by them. So I'm going to answer that both are expected, that is, systemically, and so very pointy, sometimes not even spectacular, but in matters that are irritating every day, I'm going to say yes, entrepreneurs. One of your fellow Members here used a different expression, more explicit. And that's a reflection too. The point is that, when we were talking about the Code of Administrative Procedure, which was examined about a year ago in the High House, it seems to me that we had a very nice discussion, and those principles which we are proposing to introduce here were very positive. I'm not quite able to figure out why, when we introduce similar laws in another legal space, because it's c.p.a. does not apply to any activity of entrepreneurs, these rules are too weak, insignificant, not what entrepreneurs are waiting for. So I'm saying at first that I have a problem with some questions, they're kind of in this broader context for me not quite understandable. Taking also very seriously the allegations even regarding the Business Law Act just now, I think that if we had come today with the Civil Code completely new or with the Penal Code to the Sejm, or even with the existing ones, whose role in civil law or criminal law does not seem to be called into question, we would have, as I understand it, been charged with the same type of charge. Here, I have the impression that there is a certain misunderstanding of the role that this law is also about to perform, because it is creating, it inherits, if I can so, maybe not quite correctly, say, the space of economic law. This prism makes it necessary to look at these regulations. I also understand a little bit about the dynamics and nature of the discussion in the plenary room. I wanted both the presidents here, Mr Murdzko, who led the deregulation committee - we worked on all the rules, all the draft laws - and President Meysztowicz, who held a discussion in the economic committee, to thank him. The work of these committees was carried out in a very substantive, very factually, in a very calm atmosphere. And I will also say from myself that the discussion with you was just interesting. So thank you for that. And not to chat anymore, but to shore. There is no Mrs Janyska, so I will not be divorced here for very long. Short time - since November 2017 projects are in the Sejm. There were no votes, no opinions on the consultation - I do not know, the consultation process, Mr Murdzek spoke about it, it lasted almost 2 years, the agreement conference itself lasted 5 days. Few of this, the Citizens' Legislative Forum just points out the consultation process with this package as a model. The check isn't changed, it's moved. Yes, it is moved because last year we reformed the control rules very thoroughly and on 1 January 2017 new rules were introduced, which have a real effect, confirmed by statistics. We have control less, we have controls more efficient, ergo how do you read it? This must be read in such a way that control entities are better classed, i.e. those who do not generate high risk irregularities - there is a much lower likelihood of their control among control authorities today. So why do we have to turn the rules upside down now that the rules are in motion? I am against this, all the more so because Mrs Janyska is still talking about overproduction of law, inflation of law, etc. I don't think one of them is logical. The Member says that Article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. We're not moving because today there's no law, I don't know, even in the Freedom of Business Act, the rules in dubio, because that's what we're talking about here, so we can't move it. On the other hand, we are creating an equivalent provision to a provision in the Code of Administrative Procedure, which was adopted by the entire House. So I don't quite understand why, as far as C.P.A. is concerned, these regulations were good, and business law is bad. Catalogue of concessions, permits - I have seen, tabled an amendment, we will talk. In my opinion, it makes no sense to keep an information catalogue of concessions and permits, a large part of which was in practice, as it turned out later, out of date at all, because someone changed the Act on concessions and permits, and the Act s.d.g. He hasn't changed. It's worthless. The list of concessions and permits will be published on the portal. This is also part of the information point for entrepreneurs that we are investigating here. I think it's going to be more valuable than the fake list in the bill. As far as non-registered activities are concerned, one Member has said that the road is closing for those who have engaged in economic activities. What closes the way if there is no such institution in the law today? You can't lock her away from something that doesn't exist. Mrs Nykiel - spokesperson. We've talked about this for a long time, and I assume we're gonna talk about it on the committee, too. I can only say that the position of the Ombudsman in my opinion - we will probably be different here, because we have not seen in the course of this work - does not depend on the method of calling, but on his independence, his position depends on the competences he has, and on how he can be called off. As for this appeal here, I apologize for the colloquialism, but if the spokesperson doesn't deserve it, he won't be called off. Unifiedness means that the Ombudsman will not have to, I don't know, go to the Minister of Economy or to the Prime Minister, because he will not be able to be appointed for a second term, because this unity is introduced. The subject of interrupting control keeps coming back. I already told you on the committee why we resigned. That's why there's a consultation process and an arrangement to listen to the arguments. We actually thought that this solution, which we proposed, is going through, that is to say, it introduces some asystemicity, because the spokesperson or spokespersons... I say the Advocate, thinking not only of this particular spokesperson, but of the Ombudsman's institution in general, because when we look at all the institutions of the Advocates, none of them have powers of power, so if the decision is not possible, the question will be who is responsible for this, who is responsible for the compensation - whether the Ombudsman or the control authority. There are some problems, practical problems. We have considered that we are not ready at this stage to introduce this solution, but we will observe the functioning of the Ombudsman and then the extension or modification of competences will be possible. I will also say that it is easier to expand competence than to create an institution from the very beginning. And the second reflection is that it's probably the only competence that we're supposed to have here, whether or not we're being accused of not having this competence, which I think I can actually read positively, because it was our proposal in the government trial. Therefore, since the others have not been raised... Mr Kulesza has, of course, announced this, but we will talk about it because I feel that there has been a misunderstanding. So I think, in that case, as far as the powers we've programmed for the Ombudsman are concerned, it's not bad. Mr Kulesza - not the only one, but among others. Mr Kulesza referred to the Wilczek Act and 1 000. Pages. Here, too, Mr Grabowski spoke of this 1,000. the parties and compared this with the 50 articles of the Business Act. First of all, I don't know where the $1,000 came from. Pages. Perhaps there is so much to justify, with the impact assessment of the regulation, I do not know, with the steering letters, with the consultation table, with the consultation report. Maybe it's 1,000. pages, because certainly no-normative acts have so many pages. Nor can the Act on business be compared to five laws. Let's compare Wilczek's bill to Entrepreneur's Law. The Wilczek Act had, as I recall, about 50 articles, and the Law of Entrepreneurs has 70 articles. So I think it's pretty strong, too, so to speak, the wrong argument, $1,000. vs 50. I'm having second thoughts, too. Mr Kulesza said that this is the third law that brings these hopes. I don't know if the Law of Business or the Freedom of Business Act had just this systemic core. In my opinion, they did not have and here is the added value of the Business Law, that so far these laws... Perhaps it is with the exception of the 1988 Act. - but also, as one of the Members said, we were in a completely different legal and institutional reality at the time - that law indeed introduced very important changes in the regulatory environment. In my opinion, the next two laws were no longer of that nature. We just didn't have a law like that, in quotes, in the field. The Member also said that five laws are inflation of the law, that there should be one law and then, in the next argument, that we do not define due diligence, that we should clarify concepts. I'd say either one or the other. Either we say that there are a lot of rules, they are overly casuistic, which creates this assessment of legal inflation, or we build rules on a general standard, at a certain level, and unfortunately, as in the Anglo-Saxon system, this requires further clarification in case law, in decisions, in science, etc. It's either one or the other. You can't say in one sentence that we're creating inflation of the law, because there are five laws, and in the other, we haven't defined how many concepts we have here, because there are 1 000. We'd have to add another 5,000. I'm gonna have another one. And some concepts did not require such clarification either, because they already have well-established judicial case law. Then they were so classic, I'd say, comments. Non-registered activities, half the minimum is not enough, relief to start, half the year is too short. Of course, you can always bid on it, but it's hard to relate to it in concrete terms. Legal explanations. I'm sorry, but here I don't know what you meant by that. Later, the Member said that there was no appeal from the prosecutor in proceedings before the President of the UOKiK, and I said that there would be a spokesperson here on the rights of the prosecutor. Unfortunately, these two solutions or two legal institutions have mixed up a little bit with each other. I said that tax proceedings do not require clarification, because tax proceedings are administrative proceedings. The administrative procedure is mentioned as the one where the Ombudsman has his powers - I do not know whether the application for the initiation of proceedings or complaints - and the antitrust procedure is a procedure in which the Ombudsman will also be able to request the initiation of proceedings. But there is no appeal from such decisions by the Ombudsman here, because there is no right of such powers in the system for other such institutions. When we work on laws, we also need to ensure that the system is consistent. Mr Jakubiak - the spokesperson is a synonym for imperfect law, we are creating an ombudsman because there is an imperfect law. It's not synonymous to me. Besides, let us remember European law. Today, when creating a new law, ok. 2/3 of the new rules are a consequence of participation, membership of the European Union. Besides, we have found five countries where the spokesperson operates, and all these countries are just countries that have good reputation, good brand as regards business conditions and business friendship. It seems to me that this argument is not hit, that either the spokesperson or the simple law. There may always be situations, especially in the application of the law - here President Meysztowicz spoke about it, and I will refer to it immediately - when it may be necessary to strengthen especially the smallest ones in such proceedings. The turnover tax - also Mr Jakubiak. It seems to me that first of all, I think EU law would have to be amended in order to introduce turnover tax here instead of VAT. Mr Grabowski. Yes, Mr Grabowski talked about pushing this bicycle by the parent and that it was not necessary, and on the other hand, Mr Kulesza said to clarify some concepts in the rules. It's either one or the other. Either we give general standards and we say that in practice the law will be clarified, interpreted, taught, etc., or we do some total casuistics and we try to include in paragraphs the concepts which - I think - in such everyday life just occur and no one has any greater doubts about them. Mr Grabowski also argued that the constitution should be clear, simple and has a thousand pages. There aren't a thousand pages. Entrepreneur's law has seventy pairs, probably 72 or 73... In any case, it has the number of articles within these limits. Mr. President Meysztowicz. First, it's a matter of preparing a project. The project was created in this term of office. Of course, he is in some sense similar to projects, which also, I do not know, arose or even, as s.d.g. whether the Law of Business was in force before, but this is also because it regulates some common matter. A certain range of regulation so, there are no strong ones, it just needs to be included here. On the other hand, a package of five laws was created from scratch, because Prime Minister Morawiecki has set up a team of experts to prepare it also with external participation, although some experiences must always be based on And it's hard to resist it here, too. The fact that in detail there are postulates going much further, and especially the organization - yes. But I think, first of all, whatever project we make, there will always be postulates going on. And rightly so, because the role of entrepreneurs and business organisations is, so to speak, to squeeze as much as possible, in the interests of entrepreneurs, that is the natural role of business organisations. On the other hand, the projector, the one at government level and later the legislator must weigh different values. Because if we had prepared a bill that, I don't know, we would have had some consumer misfortune a month after the introduction of such a law, if some entrepreneur - because we have among entrepreneurs and angels and angels - would nod, I don't know, e.g. A thousand consumers, I think, that all the votes that were in favour of making a very brave, far-reaching bill would be quickly forgotten and here it would be a public whipping as we could let it happen and that it was the law's fault. I'm not saying that this balance is always and in every situation as accurate as possible. This is always a choice between certain values and art is to balance it accordingly. Also about the amendments that you have tabled as clubs today we will talk in committee and show that it is not always so easy to make intentions in the appropriate legislative formula, that even if the intention is as good as possible, it is not always easy to write down and sometimes it can lead to reverse conclusions. The fact that the rules are not precise - the rules cannot be precise. The rules, we talked about it, they must have a certain level of generality, flexibility. But since these rules hold firm in civil law, criminal law, administrative law, there is no reason to believe that they will not work at the level of public economic law. Besides, I was talking about the statistics we checked before the committee meeting. In administrative law, which, I think, is closest to the area we regulate, most of the judgments repealing administrative decisions are based on general principles. And we can't say that these are, I don't know, unnecessary ornaments or empty declarations. These are real legal standards, which are a prerequisite for challenging decisions that are incompatible with them, incompatible with them. I think there is no administrative law - or at least I haven't seen it, I haven't heard - a complaint to the administrative court or to the higher authority so that someone doesn't invoke the principle. So it's definitely not, I'll repeat, empty declarations. We'll talk about the spokesperson. As I said in the answers to Mrs Nykiel's questions, I do not think that it is in the case of who will appoint an Ombudsman, but in the way that Ombudsman can, I do not know, for example, what powers this Ombudsman has. The Ombudsman has more competence than, for example, a financial spokesman, and the financial Ombudsman is well assessed by the participants in this trade. So that here, in my opinion, objectivity is not based on vocation. We can ask ourselves how we increase the independence of the Ombudsman if he is appointed in Parliament and not by the President of the Council of Ministers. I got a question, I don't get it either. The Wilczek Act - Mr President, Mr Wilczek stressed this. That's what I've been talking about. Mr Kobyliński spoke about the tax system. If we had come with the Civil Code to the High House, that doesn't mean that when we came with the Civil Code, we would have immediately changed, I don't know, the Unfair Competition Act, the Antitrust Law, the Consumer Credit Act. Oh, no. We can think of something else, I can give you 1,400 different areas that we didn't include in this package, otherwise we wouldn't have just left work. Binding legal interpretation - Mr Kobyliński said that there is no interpretation. There is, a fixed interpretation practice is exactly what it is, plus interpretations. This is not only an interpretation which I received as Mariusz Haladyj on my own, but also one which is the dominant practice of interpretation of a given office. So we're going a lot further here. 18 million on the Ombudsman - we talked to you in committee, that's max. This is one large department in the ministry, and this is also the scale of offices that other spokespersons have, apart from a spokesperson who has a much larger office, and this spokesperson has more competence than comparable institutions. VAT is the tax system, it's the same question. Mr Łopata spoke about the chief labour inspector and later about the fact that this chapter is being criticised about exceptions in checks. I can answer your question with a question, which exceptions in Chapter 5 are unreasonable, and let's talk like this, not like this: because exceptions are too much and period. Let us talk about which exceptions are unreasonable, because I fear that it will be much more difficult to formulate this request. A spokesperson - political play. That's hard to answer. This bill doesn't run out of work. That's right, the job isn't over, it's definitely one of the ministry's activities - not the only one, not the first one, not the last one. Besides, if I were to say what the constitution might be synonymous with, it certainly can't be synonymous with the end of work. Rather, it is the foundation on which a new reality is built. And the system bill. it serves precisely this type of activity. Mr Furgo spoke about increasing the independence of the Ombudsman - that has already been done, so I will not repeat myself again. I don't understand why a spokesperson would always be on the side of officials. The Ombudsman will always stand on the side of the law. If, in a given situation, the trader is clearly wrong, it does not mean that the Ombudsman will be obliged to push himself hard in administrative, judicial and administrative proceedings and go to the end in a lost case because he is an advocate for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The Ombudsman will be governed by the law. Mrs Nykiel asks why we did not take into account the comments. If comments are made, which have been resolved negatively during the legislative process and even government, I think that the Member knows very well that it is difficult for me to express a different opinion at the parliamentary stage now, because I do not represent myself or the ministry here, but the position of the Council of Ministers. Mrs Kołacz-Leszczyńska also spoke about SMEs, about the Ombudsman, that he should be the spokesperson for everyone. But at the beginning, the Member also said that we are aware of the role of SMEs. That's what we have, and that's why every solution needs to be adapted to real needs, not to create artificial figures. If we believe that small entrepreneurs have the greatest need for institutional support in moving in this regulatory and institutional reality, then let's adapt solutions to this and not create solutions that are just a theoretical figure. Mr Meysztowicz has rightly said that the rules themselves are not enough and there is a need to change mentality. I agree, I sign with both hands. And we're changing, and the rules can also be a catalyst for change, because either we can not introduce legal solutions and wait for this mythical mentality to develop itself within, I don't know, decades, or we can stimulate certain processes with legal regulations - either by limiting a certain degree of freedom or by creating positive incentives, because the right of entrepreneurs is not a project against officials, it's a project that also gives officials a clear basis for a more partnership approach to entrepreneurs. Because if an official acts on the basis and within the limits of the law, even if he has an internal conviction that the entrepreneur is probably right, but it's nothing, we go to one court, to another court, and another cassation complaint will possibly file to have a paperwork, it is the right of the entrepreneur, creating this basic catalogue of rights and obligations, guarantees, on the other hand, that gives the official the basis for the fact that on the basis of the article. x paragraph. y issued such decisions, not other decisions, not afraid that someone would judge it later in such a way that he had issued it without a legal basis for the entrepreneur. It is precisely about creating a positive legal basis, a legal basis for positive action. And there is not only the Law of Entrepreneurs here, but - once again - the Code of Administrative Procedure, which we changed this year in June, when the major amendment was made, the biggest change of the order. for several decades, changing this model of administration and handling administrative matters. We have a change in the Public Finance Act, in financial discipline, even in the Credit Package. It all creates a regulatory team to help change this mentality. I agree that the law alone is not enough and that work is still needed later in the implementation process. We do this too, for example by creating certain, I don't know, guidelines or informants, e.g. to this amendment, C.P.A. Mr Kobyliński spoke about further steps that there is no contentment here. Fully agreed, there will be further steps, just like the previous ones. In a moment it should go to the High House, for example, the Business Success Act or the proposal raised by financial sector entrepreneurs for years on the possibility of verifying the criminality of workers, which will facilitate investment in this sector. In a moment, the SME package should come, where the impact on entrepreneurs over 10 years is about PLN 4 billion in savings, for example the smallest companies have raised for many years the issue of the inclusion of the salary costs of their spouse in the cost of obtaining income or for example. one-off loss settlement option and not up to 50% only in a given year. So there's these projects and these systems, and they're more pointy. Then there was a question of relief to start, whether optional or mandatory. Of course, the start-up allowance is optional, the maximum period is 6 months. You might as well run out of 2 months, 2.5 months, 3 months and 3 days. The health contribution will be paid and the entrepreneur will therefore be subject to health insurance. Small economic activity - Minister Emilewicz has talked about this many times recently. He talks and works to make this project the subject of a legislative process. She asked about mentality - there is no Member - whether the law can change mentality. That will also answer Mr Meysztowicz's question. Of course, the law cannot change mentality directly, but as I said here, regulation can certainly affect mentality and lead to a change of attitude, to a change of approach. The acts I mentioned, answering Mr Meysztowicz's question, serve this purpose. As for foreign... Yes, a foreign entrepreneur or a foreign natural person will have all the solutions in one act. Mr Kostus asked in dubio... I have the impression that this is a remark similar to the one reported by Mrs Janyska, that we do not confirm here in dubio... I mean, we confirm, we only introduce some bigger exceptions. That is, we do not confirm, because today it is not here in the area where the Business Law enters, and secondly, we do not restrict, because we create a definition or regulation that is exactly the same, consistent with the Code of Administrative Procedure. Therefore, I do not fully understand this reservation. Mr Gawron asked about non-registered activities. Yes, it will be every month, because this is the solution provided for so-called. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and maintenance of equipment, equipment and equipment, as well as the purchase, hire, maintenance, The Member asked whether if the entrepreneur would have higher revenues in December, he would be able to average, so to speak. That's the whole point of not being entrepreneurs. It is not that someone has a seasonal activity and thanks to non-registered activities is not in the business system. This is an additional activity, but not on such a scale as to justify the treatment of a person already as an entrepreneur. It's an extra activity, I don't know, retired people, a student, a teacher who wants to make a few hundred zlotys a month, not an institution that has... This was also the case in the committee with proposals or proposals from the social side, so that this would be an annual limit. Then we'd have 12,000 transactions in two months. It's definitely not a mess. Records, yes. The records will be kept on the basis of the VAT Act, so here we use solutions already existing. It'll be settled under CIT, so this CIT will be... sorry, PIT, so PIT will be paid. Mr Suchoń said how I understood that we should talk to entrepreneurs. I talked to entrepreneurs and this bill was also created as a result of talks with entrepreneurs. Why did mediation come out? I think that's what Mr. Chairman asked. Mediation as a rule of general principles came out because we changed the c.p.a., changed the law on financial discipline, changed the law on public finances, where mediation and settlement were very strongly introduced as an opportunity, but there are also indications when the office can conclude e.g. a deal not to be held responsible for the discipline of public finances. We give the Ombudsman competence to mediate, which in other countries - as we have studied - has been very successful. The Ombudsman, as a person providing certain institutional security, especially the administrative side, is very successful. Therefore, solutions in other laws are enough to prevent this rule from being introduced here, because it would not have a normative value. And I find it hard to imagine that this mediation will occur, for example. except formalised procedures. That's where we gave up... If we hadn't given up on that kind of legislation, it'd be another charge that it's not 70, it's 140 articles, so... I'm almost done. Mrs Czernow - this is also interesting. Earlier, we had mainly the attention to go further, to give businesses a free hand, to trust, etc., and here - and interestingly enough - is the opposite remark that the introduction of this open period, for which business activity can be suspended, is in some way dangerous and out of date. First of all, today's legal situation certainly does not build trust in the law. I think about the two-year solution, according to which I am suspended for two years, and when my suspension is due on Wednesday, I am suspended on Wednesday and again on Thursday I am suspended for another two years, that in the law such solutions that encourage people or even force people to think, if they want a longer suspension period, should not be accepted by the legislator. In addition, the information will be valid in the central register as it will be stated that the trader has a suspended activity and therefore does not de facto operate. I don't see the risk of some kind of out of date here. Mrs Wasilewska asked about succession, if I understand correctly. It'll be in Parliament any minute. We are after work on the Permanent Committee, the Legal Commission, any minute now the Council of Ministers will deal with this project and it will go to the High House if the Council of Ministers accepts it. Mr Gonciusz asked whether it would be the number of unallocated replies by the authorities to the Ombudsman on the website or whether they would be the content of these answers. There's gonna be a number, statistics, because it's supposed to be that kind of disincentive to not giving an answer to a spokesperson. I think such bodies should just be ashamed of it. On the other hand, I believe that the content of these questions should not be published on the website, because perhaps the person asking whether the Ombudsman's request for help does not wish his affairs to be public, to be placed there. And Mr Duda asked - this is a more general question - whether it will significantly improve economic activity. It will improve because, as I said, in my opinion, there is no law in the area of economic law, which will be this basic, field law, which will affect the interpretation and interpretation of economic law. This is the base, especially where there is a decision-making leeway when it comes to officials, the law of entrepreneurs will fill these crevices. This is, of course, not the only activity here. In addition to this systemic change, as I said before, we are still working on solutions already in very specific areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal of the Seym Beata Mazurek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u320	Thank you very much. [[In corrigendum mode.]] As corrected by Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz,15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to clarify, because I heard in your reply, Minister, that you didn't really understand what version. I told you. The income tax, no turnover, flat-rate tax, called the Dzierżawski Act, is proposed instead of CIT tax, and today we talk all the time, around Maciej, about these hundreds of CIT paragraphs. Not only that, of course. On the other hand, I have set an example that such a tax exists in today's legislation and that individuals engaged in business can pay and pay flat-rate income tax. That's what you can call him. If we had mandatoryly introduced it, the Treasury would have more revenue, and employers would have a quiet sleep, i.e. entrepreneurs would not have the whole interpretation mess. I'll remind you that this is 200 and 250 thousand. interpretations per year, etc., etc. That's what I meant, not VAT. I agree with the Minister that the European Union is working today on a document to replace turnover tax VAT. The amount of 8% shall be reported. This, on the other hand, is the singing of the future, and the European Union will probably introduce it in 20 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u322	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will join the third reading of the bill in print 2190 in the voting block. As amendments were tabled at second reading to draft legislations contained in prints 2187, 2188, 2189 and 2199 respectively, I propose that the Sejm re-direct these projects to the Extraordinary Commission on deregulation in order to report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Legislative Commission submitted a report on the resolution of the Senate on the Law amending the Law on Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The Public Finance Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Insurance Distribution Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the Rules of Procedure: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws (Prints No 2067 and 2203). I ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u323	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the government draft law amending the National Court Register and certain other laws. The Commission on Justice and Human Rights considered the project on 9 and 24 January 2018. I will briefly point out that the law concerns the implementation of European laws, the synchronization of the National Court Register with such registers operating in Europe, but also on the occasion of the amendment makes great progress in the computerization and improvement of the processes that the National Court Register has so far been engaged in. The register in many elements will be an electronic register, it will be a register which, apart from a few exceptions, will operate, at least, the circulation of documents in electronic form between the parties. This will result in a significant acceleration of proceedings, which in an era of rapid increase in entries and responsibilities of the courts in this area is indisputable and absolutely necessary. Of course, there are a number of procedures and tools for courts, which result from many years of practice, which show that such solutions are necessary, for example, to specify the coercive procedure, namely the procedure which requires the obliged entity to complete the registration formalities in connection with the expiry of the statutory deadlines. So far, there have been a lot of doubts, problems and ambiguities as to how much the court could afford to call on those obliged to perform these duties, how much it could correspond with the natural persons who represented the authorities, except for those authorities, in so far as it could obtain addresses, such as the addresses of the persons who represented the companies. Today all this in this law will be regulated, the registry court will have very hard tools to enforce the registration obligation. This will provide certainty, guaranteeing that the register is a truly reliable source of information and a calendar of activities most often of limited liability companies. The Commission has introduced some minor amendments from a substantive point of view. First of all, it minimally postponed the introduction of a repository of notarial acts, which form the basis for entries in the National Court Register. This is an extraordinary simplification of the procedure, where notarial acts underlying the alert will be in the electronic repository, but it takes time for it to be introduced. Of course, the notary government also called for a slight delay in the entry into force of this repository. Therefore, the deadline for moving the implementation of the law was set for 15 March, which slightly delayed the entry into force of the law and slightly delayed the entry into force of this repository. The Commission, of course, calls for the adoption of a draft law in accordance with the text annexed to the report and for further examination of the draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u324	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast was to be the first to speak from the Law and Justice Club, but he presented his position in writing. In this situation, I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Wilk to speak from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform would like to present its position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the National Court Register Act and certain other laws. First of all, it must be stated that the draft law contained in the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights contains very important provisions concerning the functioning of the National Court Register. The proposed solutions are going in the right direction, because changes to inform the National Court Register should be assessed positively. The draft implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on certain acts of company law, thus alongside the need for changes resulting from the 16-year period of operation of the National Court Register, for example, the need for this regulation. The proposed amendments not only include the provisions of the Act on the National Court Register currently in force, but also concern several other laws, such as the Civil Code, the Law on notaries, the Act on judicial bailiffs and executions, as well as other laws. The draft law presented in the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights introduces the principle of submitting applications to the National Court Register by means of an electronic system. This will also apply to requests to remedy deficiencies, electronic service, letters or appeals. The draft law also contains regulations that indicate that registration files are to be kept and made available in electronic form. According to the project, the reports submitted are also to be submitted in electronic form. The same formula will also have the opinion and audit report of the audited auditor who will sign the opinion with a qualified electronic signature. The proposal also provides for the resignation of entries in the Court and Economic Monitor. In return, an electronic repository of notarial acts and protocols will be created. The project also provides for an extension of the scope of the so-called. incriminating proceedings, while shortening the period for disclosure of an entry in the Register of Insolvent debtors from 10 to 7 years. As I said at the outset, changes to inform the National Court Register should be assessed positively. Of course, there should be a maximum simplification behind the online transmission of applications or reports, especially as more than 20% applications submitted in registered courts shall be returned to be completed, corrected, which shall extend the substantive handling of the case. Therefore, the forms should be simplified and contain only the necessary information to ensure that this percentage of applications returned is as small as possible, especially since the total number of entities remaining in the jurisdiction of the registry court grows from year to year. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to say that we will vote in favour of the bill presented in the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u326	Thank you very much. Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz,15 will speak. There's no envoy. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Marshal, I have a chance to congratulate you and start working with your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the opinion of the Modern Club on amending the Act on the National Court Register, print no. 2067. At first reading, the Modern Club stated that this law was going in the right direction, that it was needed. We live in the 21st century. You must do everything you can to make these paper operations and this flow of documents speed up. The electronic form is really good, it's a good direction. Simplifications in action are essential. Therefore, the club The modern, of course, will support in further work on this law the solutions that have been proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u330	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u331	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position towards the government draft law amending the Act on the National Court Register and some other laws, prints no. 2067 and 2203. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's governmental draft amendment to the Act on the National Court Register and some other laws assumes that from 1 March 2020 entrepreneurs will be required to submit applications to the National Court Register in electronic form. Associations, foundations and public health establishments will have a choice as to whether to use electronic form. The aim of this solution is to improve the functioning of the National Court Register. E-mails will also be sent to remedy the deficiencies, letters submitted and remedies. Since 1 March 2020, registration files are to be kept in electronic form, but financial documents will be submitted in electronic form before that date. Entrepreneurs will be required to submit financial statements electronically. The financial statements will be forwarded by the National Court Register to the Ministry of Finance. The application for the entry of persons representing the trader and the winding-up and procurators will need to be accompanied, in addition to the declaration of appointment, by addresses. Final decisions shall be issued and served in electronic form. It will not be necessary to provide a justification for a provision in matters other than the alert if the applicant and the participants have taken part in the proceedings. If an application is submitted in electronic form, further letters will also have to be submitted in electronic form. Ladies and gentlemen! The project envisages the creation of a Central Repository for Electronic Releases of Notarial Acts. According to the project, the institution of the registry curator shall be liquidated. The existing provisions will apply to proceedings before a registered court initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of this amendment. High Izbo! There is no doubt that there is a need today to computerise, modernise the functioning of the administration, the judiciary and institutions such as the National Court Register. However, in agreement with the general objectives of the project, it should be asked whether it is necessary to remove the possibility for entrepreneurs to submit applications to the National Courts on a traditional, paper basis. Why shouldn't companies, like associations, foundations and public health establishments, be left to choose? Perhaps the transitional period for companies should be extended beyond the planned date of 1 March 2020. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish People's Party Club will support the bill presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u332	Thank you, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Ireneus to be taken from the Freedom and Solidarni Posel Wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u333	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. The National Court Register has been in operation since 1 January 2001 under the Law of 20 August 1997. It was created in place of the Commercial Register, whose history dates back to the period of the Second Republic of Poland. During the period of its existence, the National Court gave citizens the opportunity to obtain information about entities subject to an alert, thereby strengthening the certainty and safety of economic turnover and the confidence of citizens in the institutions of the State. The importance of the register shows that, according to data at the end of 2015, the list of entities registered in it exceeded 400 000. The continuous development of the KRS, for example in the breakthrough of June 2012, since it is possible to download up-to-date electronic copies of entries of entities free of charge via the Internet, does not change the fact that it is necessary to introduce changes that will adapt the register to dynamically developing economic turnover, enhancing its security, as well as facilitating and improving the registration procedure through registered courts. Mr Michał Woś, undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Justice, rightly stressed that the proposed changes aim to bridge the narrow throat of the KRS in economic trade. It is time to fully adapt the KRS to the 21st century so that all registration procedures can only be carried out through the electronic system, without the need to produce a large number of documents in paper form. It is not exaggerated that the proposed changes are revolutionary in the positive sense of the word. The project provides for the amendment of the Act on the National Courts of Justice and other laws, e.g. Code of Civil Procedure and Commercial Companies Code. The proposed amendments can be grouped, in accordance with the terminology used in the justification of the project, into four categories: firstly, changes strengthening the certainty and safety of trading, such as coercive proceedings, strengthening the powers of a curator acting under the provisions of the Civil Code, secondly, changes relating to the use of new information technologies and the need to implement Directive (EU) 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2017 on certain aspects of company law in the field of the integration of central, commercial and company registers, thirdly, changes involving a number of activities for entrepreneurs, such as simplification of the proceedings on the so-called '. registration entries in heading 4 of the KRS or disclosure in the Central Register of Restructuring and Failures of information on the arrears of entities, and finally fourthly, a number of minor but extremely important changes of a procedural and order nature, such as the harmonisation of terminology contained in k.p.c. in Section VI: Registration proceedings, in the KRS Act and in the registry pledge and pledge register law, and a change concerning the introduction of the definition of a statutory electronic system. High Izbo! This is a very good bill, which perfectly complements the previously discussed bill of the Law of Entrepreneurs and is part of the implementation of the Strategy for Responsible Development, which is why it fully deserves to be adopted by the High Sejm. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Free and Solidarni Circle clearly welcomes this bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u334	Thank you very much. In this we have exhausted the list of Members speaking on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. The time for questioning is 1 minute. After the first question, I will close the list of Members. First Mr. Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We have just completed the process on the bill of Business Law. The Modern Club shall submit an amendment concerning the entry into the National Court Register. The KRS shall examine the application for an alert and enter an alert or return the application to be completed without undue delay within a deadline of 30 days. I have a question for the applicants: When adopting the Act on the National Court Register and speeding up procedures by computerising the entire circulation of documents, does this 30-day deadline seem reasonable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u336	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u337	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Very rarely in this Chamber were questions about the practical implementation of legislation, which would result in the computerisation of individual areas of the country. I want to ask you a question about that. Well, Minister, I would very much like to ask you to explain how the IT system responsible for collecting, i.e. the register, will work in practice, because so far it has usually been so that these information systems have been, as it were, in fact, property-related to external entities. This sometimes caused problems related to the implementation, modernization of such systems. Therefore, I would very much like to ask for an answer on how the issue of this ICT system or those ICT systems will be resolved, who will have property rights. If today you are unable to answer, because I understand that this is a specific question, I would very much ask for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u338	Thank you. And please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important change that facilitates and accelerates all procedures. My question concerns the other side of the transmission of information, i.e. obtaining information from the National Court Register. The possibilities of the National Court Register in relation to these changes are increasing significantly. Whether it is envisaged in the future to share information about companies that are currently not made available, for example concerning problems, I do not know about reporting or any delays that may indicate some problems in the company, [[♪ The bell ♪]] enabling counterparties to operate more efficiently. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u340	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Michał Woś.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u341	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much at first. for such broad support, because it is indeed a very desirable law, important, and the changes that we intend to introduce are revolutionary, because in the end in the Polish judiciary there will be an electronic system in the full sense of the word, which will fully take over the handling of the proceedings, in this case the registration procedure, because so far it was a kind of grass painting in green. In theory, we could submit some forms of application online, and on the other hand they were printed, sealed and the whole procedure was preserved. In the first place, I will refer to the general remark made by the club PSL, namely to keep the choice of whether to do it in paper form or in electronic form. The point is that entrepreneurs can choose whether they want to submit applications in paper form or in electronic form, as is the case with associations or foundations. I want to say here that we are very intensively analyzing, we are considering going the other way, i.e. encouraging associations and foundations to be obliged, including them, to use the ICT system, of course with the full support infrastructure of entities that would not necessarily be sufficiently qualified to make such a request over the Internet. As for the specific questions, Mr Meysztowicz asked for the deadline. Mr President, there is an instructional period of 7 days already set in the KRS Act. EU law provides for 30 days here, we have this 7-day instructional term. As we know, in many cases it is not preserved, but the aim of this ICT system is to make it not even 7 days, but to make it even faster, as soon as possible, so that the entire procedure is conducted and appropriate entries are carried out within the KRS with immediate effect. Mr Suchoń asked about the computerisation and implementation of the IT system. Mr President, I would like to say here that we, as the Ministry of Justice, as regards our parcel, as regards details, will, of course, still be settled, taken into account after the adoption of the law - we are already leaving large, gigantic public procurements carried out outside by various, unexplored companies that imposed gigantic margins. I want to tell you that when we first consider the issue, for example. those systems that have already been created, i.e. the register of perpetrators of sexual crimes or the drawing of cases, the initial valuation of the market of these two systems was many times higher than the costs we incurred when building both systems in the context of the comprehensive computerization of the state, but this is about the piece for which we are responsible, that is, the justice system. So we want to preserve all the property rights to these systems and we will most likely decide on such a path that we will build it with our own forces of ministry, of course with the support of various modern forms, such as the body of leasing IT specialists, specialists and experts. One last question. Mr Wojciechowski asked about obtaining information from the KRS. Mr President, the National Court of Auditors provides for two possibilities for wide-ranging electronic viewing of these documents, namely, on the one hand, it will be a fully public repository of documents, financial statements, a repository of financial statements and the other, also available, a part of which will be an electronic file that can be viewed from board to board, sitting in front of your computer at home, not as it is now when you have to order the file well in advance and of course these files are to be reviewed, but on the spot, in court. In this respect, full disclosure will be maintained in this bill, and that is what we wanted. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u342	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws, prints No 2067 and 2203. The aim of the project is to implement Directive (EU) 2017/1132 of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of company law to the extent that the Directive provides for the establishment of a system of interconnection of registers requiring the exchange of information and registration documents in electronic form. The outdated IT system of the National Court Register requires that the transfer of solutions proposed in EU law requires a number of legal and technical solutions, such as: - speed up and streamline the registration procedure and facilitate the party's contact with the court through the obligation to submit an application for entry in the register of KRS entrepreneurs using the electronic system, electronic contact with the registry court, the introduction of registration files in electronic form, the creation of an electronic repository of acts and notarial protocols, and the integration of the KRS into the BRIS system, - to provide registration courts with the opportunity to discipline those obliged to appoint representatives of the entity when they refrain from carrying out their duties, - the liquidation of the institution of the probation officer, - the creation of a publicly accessible Internet portal enabling parties and other economic operators to have access to all documents submitted to the National Courts of Auditors, - the burden on registry courts of introducing an obligation to submit financial statements in electronic form only and many other necessary regulations. The discussion at first reading and during committee work has shown that the proposed amendment is necessary. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the Government's submission.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u344	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In connection with the process of the bill, I wanted to ask about the article. 19 point 2. It states that applications for an entity to be registered in the register of economic operators shall be made only via the electronic system. Is this provision relevant to members of the cooperative or foundations subject to registration in the register of entrepreneurs? Often such representatives of cooperatives or foundations do not have access to the computer and the Internet, they cannot use it. Ordering them to submit an application via an electronic system may deprive them of their constitutional right to court. I therefore make this proposal: Can it be considered to leave the possibility of applying in a traditional form? Can it put in place a solution to support such people, e.g. At the court's information centers? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u345	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of items 10 and 11 of the agenda: 10. Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft law on the Marshal's Guard (prints 1971 and 2195). 11. Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft law Rules introducing the Marshal's Guard Act (prints 1972 and 2196). I would like to ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present the reports of the committees in 2195 and 2196.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u346	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Seym! These documents, whose titles were quoted by the Marshal, were the subject of the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which hosts this amendment of the Act, in principle the creation of a new law on the Marshal's Guard. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs worked both within the subcommittee and at the plenary meetings of the committee. Several times the committee, several subcommittees, worked in such a way as to adopt maximum broad consensus on the Marshal's Guard Act. Ladies and gentlemen! Analysis of contemporary terrorist threats in Europe and the world, especially after all terrorist attacks in Europe that have taken place in recent years, requires a new look at the roles and tasks of the services, their organisation, their full professionalisation, cooperation, exercises, ensuring their full personal status, the use of professional equipment, equipment of the highest quality and effective protection of sensitive institutions for the functioning of the state and protected institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that we respond to all these challenges in a situation where bad things have not yet happened. We are working on the creation of a new uniform formation - the Marshal's Guard. It is new in the sense that it will be a completely new law, both externally and internally, where the Marshals' Guard and Parliament will carry out their tasks. Due to traditions, experience and the current risks of security solutions, including the protection of other national parliaments, there are very different risks. However, it must be stressed that one thing that brings them together is that in all of them it is the President of Parliament - in our case it would be the Marshal of the Sejm - that they have the main competences in this area, and that the activities of strict security are carried out by those who are professionally prepared and who have the status of an officer assigned to the service of that State. Normal - I stress - a normal, not theoretical state should professionally, taking into account current and future challenges and threats, make changes in services, making them capable of taking up challenges and responding to any threats. It should also be noted that, in view of the potential threats to terrorist attacks in the protection of the sites of the parliaments of the said countries, the areas of monitoring, including, inter alia, the areas of surveillance. the use of smart systems, also apply to areas in front of parliaments where people's movements and vehicle stops are reduced in different ways. This is not surprising in Europe, nothing that would cause social disapproval. Also, enhanced control and permanent facilities preventing entry into the internal territory of parliaments do not raise objections to the citizens of those countries who understand and are aware of this. hazards. The solutions contained in the draft laws on the Marshal's Guard should also be looked at in terms of the forthcoming 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence after 123 years of partitions, as well as the celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Polish parliamentary system. During the work on draft laws on the Marshal's Guard and the work on the Law introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard, as I mentioned at the beginning, several subcommittee meetings and committee meetings took place. In the course of the work after the initial polarisation of the positions on the solutions contained in the drafts of these laws, there has been a development - I hope very much - of solutions accepted also by representatives of the opposition. I would like to stress very clearly the effective and substantive cooperation between the members of the committee, representatives of the Sejm Chancellery, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the pension facility, representatives of the employees of the current Marshal's Guard, associations and social organizations, and the Legislative Office and the Legal Office of the Sejm. In the course of the committee's work, provisions concerning the protection of Members and Senators outside the Sejm's premises and facilities were waived in order to obtain consensus. Similarly, in order to obtain consensus, provisions concerning the use by the Marshal's Guard of the help of persons not officers of the Marshal's Guard were waived. At first, we wondered whether such persons who recognized whether they were doing an interview could work outside the Sejm, but it was abandoned. The provisions of the Law on Solutions allowing police officers, State Security Services and other services to move to the Marshal's Guard were supplemented. We have also clarified and clarified the provisions concerning the tasks of the Marshal's Guard and the rights and duties of Marshal's Guard officers, including in correlation with the solutions set out in the Law on State Protection in this respect. Rules on disciplinary action against Marshals' Guard officers have also been clarified. The most important changes to the current legal situation concern the extension of the competence of the Marshal's Guard. At the same time, she is granted new tasks, including: to carry out the pyrotechnical and radiological diagnosis of persons, vehicles, areas and objects of the Sejm and the Senate, and to take action to neutralise these threats and detect listening devices in areas, facilities and devices on the Board of the Sejm Chancellery and the Board of the Senate Chancellery. Secondly, an officer of the Marshal's Guard will have the right on the territory of the Sejm and the Senate, among others, to carry out tasks. issuing orders, legiting, stopping, making checks. The way in which these actions are carried out will, of course, be entitled to a complaint against the prosecutor responsible for the place of the action. The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to appeal proceedings will apply to the complaint. Third, the Marshal's Guard officer will be entitled to use or use direct coercion measures and to use or use firearms under the rules laid down in the Act of 24 May 2013 on direct coercion and firearms. It should be added that under the current rules, Marshals' Guard staff also have such powers. The weapon is used to carry out protective tasks of the Sejm and the Senate and to secure convoys of classified documents and monetary values. The Marshal's Guard will not have the authority to conduct operational or investigative activities. The Marshal's Guard officers released from service will be entitled to pension supplies for service of years or in the event of total incapacity for service, and members of their families - in the event of death of the host, under the terms and conditions laid down in the 1994 Act on pension provision of police officers, ABW, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, CBA, Border Guard, Government Protection Office, State Fire and Prison Service and their families. High Seym! The solutions contained in the draft law concerning the applicable degrees in the Marshal's Guard should be accompanied by the provisions of the draft law, among others. rules allowing the undisciplined transition of officers from other services to the Marshal's Guard. We want the door to the service in the Marshal's Guard to be open, especially to those who are prepared or who consider the service in uniform to be a kind of challenge, mission, professional purpose. As regards remuneration, it should be noted that the bill does not provide for a number of allowances in the salaries of officers of the Marshal's Guard who are currently receiving other services. Expenditure related to the security of the Sejm and the Senate, i.e. the maintenance of the Marshal's Guard, is currently planned and implemented from the part of the budget at the disposal of the Sejm Chancellery. Such a solution is also envisaged after the entry into force of the Marshal's Guard Act. The Marshal's Guard will continue to function in the structures of the Sejm Chancellery and, above all, will be subject to the Marshal of the Sejm. In addition, a number of tasks will be provided by other organizational cells of the Sejm Chancellery. The services under the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration are financed by the Ministry's budget, but e.g. Military police or Customs are no longer financed by the Ministry's funds. Ladies and gentlemen! The solutions to the duties, duties and powers of the Marshal's Guard officers presented in the draft law should protect the facilities and equipment on the Board of the Sejm Chancellery and the Senate Chancellery's Board of Directors more effective and at the same time increase the security of Members, Senators, employees and visitors and participants in debates, meetings of the Sejm. The loyalty of the state to those who, as in other servants, in the army, vow, among other things. faithfully serve the Polish nation, obey the law, remain faithful to the constitutional authorities of the Republic of Poland and conscientiously perform the duties of officer of the Marshal's Guard, even at risk of his own life and health, he commands, as in the case of other services, to grant them appropriate powers in addition to their duties. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! I will now go to the second document, i.e. the Laws introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard. Referring to the recently presented Marshal's Guard Act, I would like to add that, according to the legislative pragmatism, the solutions contained in the draft Marshal's Guard Act are the consequence of the solutions adopted by the committee during the meetings during the work on the Marshal's Guard Act and, consequently, changes in the existing legal acts concerning, among others, the Act on Marshal's Guard. Police or other services. In this case also, as in the case of the draft law on the Marszałkowska Guard, there was a polarization of positions in relation to the solutions contained in the drafts of these laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight the effective and substantive cooperation between the members of the committee and the subcommittee, representatives of the Sejm and the Ministry of Home Affairs, the pension facility and representatives of the employees of the present Marshal's Guard, associations and social organisations and legal services of the Polish Parliament. We have tried to work so as to reach a maximum consensus between the proposals coming from the ladies and gentlemen of the House, as well as the conclusions coming from the Ministry, but also the conclusions which, and quite often so, led the Legislative Office of the Sejm. First of all, in the course of the committee's work, changes to the draft law on the Marshal's Guard were made to the draft implementing rules. Changes in the provisions of the Act are the result of the resignation of the provisions in the draft Law on the Marshal's Guard - I mentioned this earlier - especially concerning the protection of Members and Senators outside the area and the Sejm objects. There will be a State Protection Service and other uniformed services, which are obliged to protect events involving Parliament, the Sejm, such as the Police. In the provisions of the above-mentioned legislation, the draft law has been amended as a result of the withdrawal from the provisions of the draft Marszałkowska Guard Act due to the fact that the Marszałkowska Guard in carrying out its tasks in particularly justified cases may be assisted by persons who are not officers. The provisions concerning the transitional period for the transition of the current Marshal's Guard staff to the posts of officers or to the posts of the Marshal's Guard staff were also clarified - because these would be two types of posts: service and work: work in the Marshal's Guard and service in the Marshal's Guard in the form of uniform service. In view of the solutions provided for in the draft Marshal's Guard Act, the other provisions were adapted to the legal acts. The solutions presented both in this and in the parallel draft law on the Marshal's Guard in terms of tasks, duties and powers of officers of the Marshal's Guard should protect the facilities and equipment which are on the Board of the Sejm Chancellery and the Senate Chancellery's Board more effective, while increasing the security of Members and Senators as well as employees and visitors to Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, I have the honour in 2018, the year of the century of regaining independence, to ask countries, the High House, for the positive adoption of the two proposed laws presented by me: the Marshal's Guard Act and the Laws introducing the Marshal's Guard Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u347	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Voice from the room: He's already said everything.]] [[But he didn't ask a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u348	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports two draft laws: the Marshal's Guard Act and of course the Laws introducing the Marshal's Guard Act. Ladies and gentlemen! In my previous speeches I spoke about the fact that in many parliaments, especially Western European countries, there are similar solutions, but first of all I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the Polish Parliament on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, expressing the joy of independence, of sovereignty, of the fact that there is a democratic parliament in Poland, we consider 2018 a very appropriate time to introduce a new law on the Marshal's Guard. The Marshal's Guard, which will be a professional uniformed service, which will have the appropriate competence, which will be equipped with appropriate legal tools, which will be equipped with appropriate technical tools to protect the Polish Parliament from threats. Perhaps today they do not look as drastic as those threats that are in Western Europe, where in addition to this type of guard also the military, and with long weapons, protects public facilities, we can often find out. Not only public facilities such as parliaments, but also stations and offices, are also protected by the military. There is no such situation with us, but everything points to the fact that it is good to prepare in advance for possible threats that we have been able to observe in Western Europe, for example, where there have been bombings on parliamentarians as well, including representatives of power in democratic countries. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill presented is, of course, the challenge of new times, but it is also modern, complete and responds to the challenges of the threats I have been talking about. It is an opportunity for us to gain professional service during the century of independence, a service that is respected, but will also be respected for the sake of broad competence. Anyone entering Parliament should be aware of the legal competence, the tools in which the Marshal's Guard is equipped. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports both draft laws. We have one legislative amendment that I am reporting to your marshal on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u349	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u350	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs adopted an extraordinary subcommittee report at its meeting on 23 January to examine draft laws amending the way the Marshal's Guard operates. Although in its original form, the Marshal's Guard was to be another specialist able to operate outside the parliament, to use information paid to external informants when building its own paid agent, it will be able to cuff in handcuffs in a moment, put on restraint belts, immobilizing nets, use chopsticks, flamethrowers, stunners and firearms. Despite the deletion of two articles, the Marshal's Guard will become a guard of specialists acting under the dictation of the Marshal of the Sejm, after all, in almost all situations the use of coercion measures according to the legislators is to depend on the Marshal of the Sejm. Refreshed by Law and Justice, the Marshal's Guard will receive powers close to what the police and some of the secret services have. Why would the Marshals' Guards have permission reserved for the special forces? The proposed catalogue of activities to be carried out by this service is unacceptable. Members of the Civic Platform do not need special, increased protection. We are not afraid of the sovereign and we do not see the slightest need for the Marshal's Guard to use the information of the police, the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Military Intelligence Service or the Service to protect your information about persons and to have the possibility to process personal data without the knowledge and consent of the persons concerned. Is there really a threat to the lives and property of the users of parliamentary buildings to create another special service? The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration today referred to statistics which say that 90% Poles feel safe, but in the act you recall an increase in the threat of motivating, justifying the granting of such wide powers to the guards. So what's it really like? In the opinion of Members of the Civic Platform, there is no basis for granting such powers. We have the impression that Marshal Kuchciński envied the Minister of Defence of the National Defence Army, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration - the Office of Internal Supervision, i.e. the internal political police, or Mariusz Kamiński - the National Security Agency and wanted to have his own services, and that in turn we have Minister Adamczyk and the Railway Protection Service and Minister Kowalczyk and the Nature Protection Service. Parliament is a special place, it is true, but since the terrorist threats we have many other services. We know well that training a police officer or the ABW is a matter of several years and gained the necessary experience over that time. The creation of the Marshal's Guard on the basis of the current regulations of the Office for Government Protection or the SOP and the Police makes no sense. I do not know whether the officers of the Marshal's Guard are about to know that the consequence of the entry into force of this law will be the liquidation of trade unions and the prohibition of association in trade unions, but in accordance with the article. 51 Marshal of the Sejm will clothe officers of the Marshal's Guard in uniforms and parade weapons, perhaps there will be swords and halabards. Another important issue is the financial implications for the state budget. The legislators assume an increase in employment in the Marshal's Guard by 120 posts for officers and 10 posts for civil servants. Currently, the Marshal's Guard has 160 employees, but in a few months this number may exceed 280. In addition, the project assumes that officers of the Marshal's Guard will be entitled to a pension in accordance with the Act on pension provision of uniformed officers. In the country, therefore, there will be another privileged professional group benefiting from pension privileges, which are always widely commented and aroused by citizens. The expected maintenance costs of the Marshal's Guard as a new service are enormous. The annual cost of salaries, equipment and weapons of officers will increase by nearly PLN 20 million. Those huge amounts that the Law and Justice are planning to spend on creating another service could be allocated, for example. for underfunded health care, in order to really help Poles and Poles, who are waiting in several years of queues for access, for visits to specialists. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, the bill presented is unacceptable. You cannot tell citizens that Members and Senators are in greater danger by enigmatically translating this statement on the potential threat of terrorism. We are opposed to creating another specialty, which can at some point violate freedom and civil liberties, even under the cloak of the right to security, which in Poland under the rule of the Civic Platform was provided without unnecessary legal tricks of this kind. Mrs. Marshal! I am applying for the rejection of these two laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u351	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Commission's draft laws on the Marshal's Guard and the Rules introducing the Marshal's Guard Act. The Administrative and Home Affairs Commission has set up a subcommittee to work on these drafts, and during the deliberations of this subcommittee the content of the projects has been examined very thoroughly and a number of amendments have been tabled. In fact, these amendments removed all the comments that had previously been made by different parties, whether it be the parliamentary or the Legislative Office. Of course, these were strict amendments. legislative, stylistic, technical or harmonising text, but also substantive, which slightly limited the scope of the Marshal's Guard's activities or its competences, but also a number of other elements. Interestingly, I would like to remind you - Mr actually left - because I think some stormy night was on the Platform - and, you are - because at the subcommittee meeting or the day before yesterday at the committee meeting none of you complained, you were all in favour, you voted in favour of this law. What happened? [[We didn't vote for the bill.]] At the end, you voted in favour of this bill in this form, but as usual, you have some doubts. We'll see how you can look the guards in the eye. That's what they heard here today. The committee then examined the report of the subcommittee, adopted unanimously, and introduced a further series of amendments, in addition to improving all the shortcomings that we have encountered. By the way, we as a Kukiz club15, in agreement with the customs union, have tabled two amendments to harmonise the powers of all uniformed services, including customs officers. The first of these amendments equalised the rights of all uniformed services with regard to the calculation of the amount and entitlement to benefits, and this is done by crediting customs officers and customs officers for the period of employment in the customs administration as the period of employment in the service. The second of these amendments restores the previous wording of the draft law, such as the committee adopted at the beginning, in Article. Point 9 of the Article. 12. Restoring this provision is quite important for the supply system applicable to the uniformed services, as in this wording affects the legal position and status of Customs and Customs-Scarb Service officers. Adoption of the proposed wording of the Article. 12 abolishes adverse and non-constitutional provisions concerning the establishment by the legislator of additional conditions for retirement in the Act of 11 May 2017 only by Customs and Customs-Scarb Service officers. Unfortunately, both amendments have not been accepted by the committee and therefore, in the interests of the quality of legislation, but also respect for the principles of some equality and fairness towards the actors, we are proposing both of these amendments as minority proposals. Thus we continue to give the majority of Parliament a chance, but also the government, mainly the Ministry of Finance, because here is the main centre of resistance, for reflection and repairing this oversight, which actually has major consequences. in the case of the group we are talking about, customs. Ladies and gentlemen! The Marshal's Guards waited many years for this bill. We talked to the guards many times, we knew their expectations. Today, in principle, we are completing the legislative process of these projects and I thought that we would conclude it, as the results and quality of the committee's deliberations pointed out, in full unanimity. Unfortunately, I see that there is no unanimity here. Somewhere bad worked last night. I was hoping that tomorrow, during the third reading, we would adopt both projects unanimously. Unfortunately, that's not gonna happen. We will accept them, but not unanimously, we already know that without the Civic Platform. Let us say this: The adoption of these projects is such a moment that we will be able to look the guards boldly and honestly in the eyes, because it is their service that provides us with the security and peace necessary for parliamentary work. State of the Platform, you should know about this exactly when you weren't at Christmas, because you guys were doing all kinds of shows on this platform. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Circus.]] Circus, it could be a circus. In this law, we actually give the guards much greater responsibilities, but also much more tools for their smooth and safe performance. We are emancipating the Marshal's Guard, and what is also very important, we finally give them all the powers that uniformed services deserve, which they deserve. It is very important that we finally get rid of this long-term omission. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 has fully supported this bill from the beginning and will strongly vote in favour of it. The myth is that there will be an increase in the number of people, because you also forget that they work here at the time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the protection of the BOR, who will then be withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Club will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the club Moderna vis-à-vis the report of the committee on the draft law of the Marshal's Watch Act and of course about the draft law on the Marshal's Guard, print No. 1971. There is some inconsistency in what you are proposing here, because on the one hand you are providing Polish society and you are trying to make them believe that we feel, we should feel very safe that there are no threats in Poland, we did not let immigrants in, therefore there is no terrorist threat, everyone should feel safer and calmer. On the other hand, as I see these cuffs on a good case under the Sejm, separating the Sejm from the citizens, I will honestly admit that I am concerned because I do not know what this was supposed to do when we had to break through the railings for weeks to get to the Sejm. I must confess, frankly, that I do not feel threatened, and I see no reason why we should create such an atmosphere of danger just to arm the Marshal's Guard, to add more responsibilities to them, to replace them in certain duties of service, which are prepared to ensure pyrotechnic safety and any other. Therefore, the question is whether it is not really about arming your marshal with a more military unit, which on the 100th anniversary of independent Poland will be dressed in parade uniforms and will perform its duties here. The increase in expenditure, the increase in the number of people employed also does not seem necessary, because so far there has been no problem and the Marshal's Guard carried out all its tasks flawlessly. To be honest, I haven't seen any problem here, nor have I heard the Marshal's Guard report that he has a problem with something, that there is, for example. There's not enough people employed. One thing that was initially denied by the Modern Club - at the beginning, because it also showed the direction of thinking of the state and the direction in which you were going. In the beginning, this law really showed that you were creating a new special service. That's what happened, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, these records, which were in the initial version of the Act, created an additional special service, because this service as Marszałkowska Guard would have the powers that special services have. Fortunately, this criticism repeated several times in committee meetings has caused you to be able to go back. You went back two steps, but I don't know if that retreat was quite enough. At least that's it. There's one more thing. Of course, I do not want to undermine the role of the Marshal's Guard, I do not question the competences and how conscientiously the guards do their work, but if I am to compare their duties and their, say, work with the police work, with the work of the Office for the Protection of the Government, with matters relating to special services that actually operate, and all these powers of uniform services are involved here, they will be proposed by this law to the guards, the Marshal's Guard, it seems to me that this can not be taken as fair, because there is a certain scale of risks, the scale of work difficulties. Of course, we have every day an idea of the work of the Marshal's Guard, and I will honestly admit that if I were to compare this guard and this work with those who really devote their lives and health to uniformed services, who are acting outside, in the police, in the service and in the army, I do not know if it is appropriate - that this work and this service be compared. The Modern Club hasn't made a decision yet. We will see how these amendments will be worked out. At the last minute, we will decide how we will vote on this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u355	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski from the club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With satisfaction and a sense of fulfillment of the duty of the Polish parliamentarian I have the honour to come out of this stand to present the position of the Polish People's Party on the Commission's drafts of the Marshal's Guard Act and the Law introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard. There is a perfect opportunity for this, and this is because, in general, the process of ordering the operation of uniformed services in this House. Those who are modest, tactful, with a sense of security for us, parliamentarians, are always helpful both to us and to guests visiting the Polish Parliament - they are still employees of the present Marshal's Guard. Without publicity, without a pump, often performing its tasks not easy, but also not always appreciated - they are employees of the Marshal's Guard, called guards today. During this term of office, it seemed that we were able to rise above all political divisions and see the need to sanction these workers at the level of the law, creating a new formation, and of them the officers themselves, and giving them specific powers, tasks, many times different from the tasks they now belong to. However, today's discussion is different. I hope that because we have some time left to vote, we will then be unanimous on this matter. In creating a new formation, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has served many times with solutions in the service, I would say related, by transferring a number of tasks as well as the powers attached to future officers of the new service. Thus, many of the provisions in the MSWiA sub-service solutions have been incorporated into the projects that are currently under investigation. As an example, I can give you the degrees of future officers, powers, e.g. Police, disciplinary action, or even a funeral allowance, which must not be forgotten. A whole range of new tasks will be imposed on the Marshal's Guard by means of the law that has not yet been performed by the guards of the Marshal's Guard. Even marginally, because I must not remind you of this, I will say that future officers in view of the current geopolitical situation may encounter situations and events in which they have not so far participated as employees have not participated, and even more so they have not carried out certain activities themselves. Thus, the 2-year vacathio legis, in order to fully implement and fully function the new service, appears to be obvious and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear present employees of the Marshal's Guard! The time and situation in which we are creating a new service for you, and we are calling you as officers of this service, are not accidental, as there is not an accidental place of your work. In an in-depth and in-depth analysis of the draft laws discussed today, I firmly believe that you will take on your honour and dignity, not only to protect the building of the Polish Parliament, its parliamentarians and other people, but also not to hesitate to face any extraordinary events if necessary. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will be pleased to vote in favour of committee reports, 2195 and 2196. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u357	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarnia.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u358	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Commission's draft laws: on the Marshal's Guard and Regulations introducing the Marshal's Guard Act. At first, I wanted to stress that I am very pleased that the committee has come up with such a legislative initiative. The Marshal's Guard currently has little authority, and the rules governing its functioning are too laconic. In the proposed act, the guards will gain in importance. She will be given new powers, but also responsibilities. The comprehensive regulation of the service, which is intended, alongside the Office for the Protection of the Government, to secure work and protect the most important people in the country, is absolutely necessary. During the rise of various kinds of threats, including terrorism, aversion to politicians and hostile behaviours of people with extreme views, adequate safeguards for the work of the Sejm and the Senate, Members and Senators are necessary. I am convinced that thanks to this law, the Marszałkowska Guard will become a specialist formation, which will be able to prevent risks in reality. An important change in this project is the granting of the Marshal's Guard powers to conduct a pyrotechnic-radiological diagnosis and to detect listening devices, which is particularly important in the context of threats arising from the reluctance of some countries to Poland and actions aimed at discrediting our country. A significant increase in aggression and dangerous behaviour expressed by vandalism attacks against parliamentary offices also gives reasonable suspicion that Members are more exposed than before to various types of attacks outside the Sejm. The provisions of the Act provide for the possibility of assigning protection to Members and Senators by order of the Marshal of the Sejm also outside the building of the sittings. It's a legitimate necessity. The bill proposed by the committee is valid and necessary without a shadow of doubt. It will make more effective use of the possibilities of formation, verify the adepts of the Marshal's Guard and give them competence. It is understandable and natural that the proposed amendments require a legal act, Regulations implementing the Marshal's Guard Act. There is therefore no need to present a separate position to her. About Free and Solidarni will support further proceding of both laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u359	Thank you very much. The list of Members who made statements on behalf of clubs and circles has been exhausted. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. I will close the list of Members after the first question has been asked. I would ask you to ask Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u360	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you a very technical question, and it's included in this bill. I am thinking here of the provisions of Chapter 8 that talk about disciplinary responsibility of officers of the Marshal's Guard. There are as many as 40 articles, which involve disciplinary responsibility, violations of professional discipline, punishment or disciplinary misconduct, or reprimands, warnings of incomplete usefulness, but there are also records of disciplinary offences committed or, finally, reminders and expulsions from the service. A lot of it. My question is: Is there really a need for so many disciplined elements of the Marshal's Guard? Is there a need for such a meticulous calculation of all these offences contained in this law? And shouldn't that be done by sending [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the relevant provisions of substantive and procedural criminal law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u361	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Edward Siarka from the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I must say that I was amazed to hear the position of Member of the Civic Platform, because not long ago we really worked together on how to find legal solutions to improve the work of the Marshal's Guard, and we all came to a common consensus that we needed a law that would regulate the functioning of the Marshal's Guard. Today's position is completely incomprehensible. I would like to remind you that when the BOR law was written, it was added in chapter 11 of the Marshal's Guard, which was de facto the same tasks that BOR did, apart from a few tasks, but as it was all about other issues, such as social or pension rights, it was simply forgotten. Today as if we were catching up on what wasn't left. It's done, and it's good. Thank you to all those who have helped, for we have really been talking about this together for years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And all good things for the guards. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u363	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Kaleta from Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u364	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will speak in the same spirit as the previous speaker, because during the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs it was possible to get the impression that we were really going towards consensus, agreement or common ideas that could make this law better, clearer, concrete. Most importantly, it is a necessary law. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here a form of question, therefore the question to the rapporteur: Is it true that, after the experience of 16 December, security must be ensured not only Members, not only Members of Parliament who are in Parliament's building, but also guests who visit us? It is often the case that we invite them. I'm talking about school trips. And is it true that the inspiration for this bill to finally enter into force so that the Marshal's Guard would receive certain powers was in some way the political terrorism that took place here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] December 16th? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u365	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski from the Kukiz club will now speak15. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u366	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was a little upset by a fellow platformer's proposal... [[He got upset and ran away.]] ...because I have the feeling that someone has mistaken the janitor for the guard. This is very sad, especially since the party's representative should know that we are really doing a decency act, we are making up for a certain amount of time lag for people whose requirements are enormous, comparable to those of the BOR, in tests, in competence, and who, as far as pension issues are concerned, social issues have been sidelined. On the other hand, I don't think we're fully aware of how good the guards are, and we often don't know that. We do not know how often their work, such ant and little visible, guarantees safety not only to us, but also to the Sejm, an important building of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u367	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Józef Lassota from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about a case that's very ambiguous. It concerns Article. 4, which refers to the fact that the Marszałkowska Guard may collect and process information, in addition without the knowledge and consent of the person concerned. The Marshal's Guard is undoubtedly a service which, however, works internally in objects and places which are objects of the Sejm and Senate, outside as long as, in the case of delegations, etc. What are the real reasons for collecting such personal information? Because the truth is, Minister... Please give some examples, though imaginary, or examples of situations where this is necessary. Because it seems like a bit of an exaggeration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u369	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Stefan Romecki from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u370	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that today, alongside the Marshal's Guard, an important security group are officers of the BOR? Is it true that an increase in the number of the Marshal's Guard is necessary because of its taking over the duties of these Bor officers? At that time we know that it is necessary because the Marshal's Guard must have more powers to protect us and the entire Sejm of the Republic of Poland. During the coup, we saw the total opposition take over the Sejm Hall, and other non-professional forces tried to invade the territory of the Polish Sejm. During this difficult period, the Marszałkowska Guard passed the exam, for which we can thank her today - the guards know their job, know what they are called to do, and praise them for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u371	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u372	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, just now one of the Members of the PiS mentioned 16 December that the opposition must be disciplined. I'm afraid of it. There is no provision in this bill that will protect the opposition, regardless of which, against, I would say, excessive use of officers of the Marshal's Guard towards Members of the opposition. This is a very serious threat. [[The opposition must be defended against opposition.]] Calm down, sir. I have to say... Mr Kalet, listen to me, because if you were a marshal, I think that no one has the imagination to tell you what you would do with this Marshal's Guard in relation to Members of the opposition. Every time you go out on the stand, you confirm it. Absolutely missing it, and unfortunately PiS wasn't ready to talk about how [[♪ The bell ♪]] in such a situation, protect the Members of the opposition. But I wanted to ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u373	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u374	...the inequality that arises from the rules on customs, because the decisions in terms of working years and age are absolutely unfavorable for customs officers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u375	Your time is up, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Zieliński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to join the voices that expressed a surprise, because there is really no reason to be surprised. This is a commission project. The government, the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration have been involved in this work, assisting Members to ensure that this law is as prepared as possible. There was a consensus. There were no votes against, they were all in favour. And all of a sudden, in the Seym Hall, the Platform is against it. I think the platform's already lost track of all of this. I do not know if she understands herself, but she has also joined it Modern, which awakens me, Mr Suchoń, because I have heard your reasonable voice several times, even more surprising. I don't know why what happened. The Marshal's Guard serves everyone - Members, employees who are employed in the building of the Sejm, the Senate, people who visit the Polish Parliament, and there are a lot of them. It is worth counting how many people there are, but they really are thousands of people from Poland and abroad, because there are foreign delegations. It's gotta be safe here. Parliament is one of the most important places in the Polish country. If we consider the critical infrastructure list, then Parliament will be very high, because it must be, it is obvious. Someone among those Members who, on behalf of their clubs, declared voting against, said that it was safe and therefore asked why all this was for. What's the point of all this? Just so it's safe. This, ma'am, is that in Poland it is safe, due to certain actions, results from various factors. If we were, for example. in terms of terrorist threats, they thought it was safe and therefore there is nothing to do, it probably wouldn't be so safe. The PO-PSL coalition government has been preparing an anti-terrorism bill for 8 years and has not prepared it. This did not go beyond the phase of a completely preliminary concept that we have prepared in the rule of law and justice in the years 2005-2007. Quickly, because within a few months, we've prepared this bill. When there was a debate on it in the Seym, of course the opposition denied it, she voted against, thinking that it was unnecessary that it would lead to the surveillance of citizens, various other nonsenses were then articled. This bill turned out to be very necessary. We applied it during World Youth Days. These very necessary records have protected us from certain dangers. I don't want to develop this thread. I recall this example in order to show that good regulations must be made in order to be safe. Solutions must be put in place that guarantee security. We need to take care of our services, their efficiency - we care about them, they are efficient - we need to finance them. There is a programme to modernise uniformed services, and I am thinking of internal services under the responsibility of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. You have to have good management of these services, you have to supervise them well. It's all there. You have no arguments, you deny the good results without justification. The fact that Poles feel safe and safe is the result that's all the action. You say it's safe in the Seym. So you're asking what all this is for. I'm going back to that again. I do not know if you remember, it is worth recalling what happened in your time, under the PO-PSL regime on 9 November 2012. It is good that PSL is behind this bill this time, I positively note this vote and accept it. I would like to remind you, because there was talk of these issues connected with the attempt to destabilize the situation in Poland. In fact, we have been faced with an attempt to undermine the democratic order of the state. It's about this coup on December 16th in the Seym, in the Seym Hall, in the streets. That's what you're talking about, and I'm not going to go back to that because that's already been said. It is also worth to say that on November 9, 2012, a Brunon K., a research worker at the University of Agriculture in Krakow, caused his actions to be accused of bombing the constitutional organs, precisely on the parliament. He was sentenced to nine years of imprisonment. Do you not remember this incident? Come on. A few months later, which is right after this event, journalists decided to see what it was like. There was a journalistic provocation by Mr. Tomasz Sekielski's team. What happened then? 3 kg of materials needed to construct an explosive device that could be detonated were able to bring into the Parliament building. What did the Marshal of the Seym Ewa Kopacz of the Civic Platform say then? It is shocking and outrageous - the Marshal Ewa Kopacz assessed the entire incident. What did she do? What did the PO-PSL coalition do then? She didn't do anything, she ignored it. Ladies and gentlemen, if the provocation went well, it means that if someone really wanted to do the assassination in the Seym, they could do it. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the Marshal's Guard, to make it a modern service, to give it the right powers. It must be ensured that it has the right size, i.e. proper employment, training, legal instruments, real instruments to ensure security in the Parliament's building, the Sejm, the Senate, throughout the complex, to ensure security for objects and people. I would also like to remind you that we promised this to the Marshal's Guard when we were in opposition. It's a good thing some of the clubs, today's opposition clubs, like PSL, shared it. And Kukiz, of course, 15. I'm sorry, maybe I should do that bow first. I address Mr Bartosz Józwiak, who presented his point of view well. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone seemed to support this. Turns out it's not. When the Civic Platform and PSL coalition... As it turns out, sir, not to be in the wrong coalition. PSL, maybe you'll think about it. That's what I wish you. [[Voice from the room: How good to think rationally.]] ...has introduced regulations that destabilize the situation in the services, when officers organized protests on the streets, trade unions, when we had such a large conference in the Seym, then there were important talks and the Marshal's Guard was also articulating their expectations, very accurate, right. Then we said it would be time to settle it. And that's the time, that's what we're gonna do. There is a parliamentary majority, a prudent, rational majority, who understands these issues and will do so. In general, in the opinion of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, it is appropriate to consider any action - including this action - aimed at raising the level of national security. And this action will raise the level of security by increasing the security of the Sejm and Senate objects. After all, these are the sensitive ones from the point of view of the security of your place in Poland, which is why it is desirable to ensure a maximum level of protection of these objects, adequate to current threats, both terrorist and criminal. The events that have taken place over the last few years, those I have mentioned, indicate that these objects may be exposed to unlawful activities, and therefore the safety and health of those living here, we must say, may be at risk. It is also essential to ensure optimum security conditions for Members and Senators. There is nothing to be ashamed of, too, because Members and Senators are representatives of the democratic will of the nation. Every Member and every Senator is such a representative and can become the target of the attacks, as evidenced by the recent action against the Members' Offices. The draft laws on the Marshal's Guard and the Regulations introducing the Marshal's Guard Act in the assessment of the Ministry of Interior and Administration will allow comprehensive security to be ensured for the Sejm and Senate objects and for those in them, therefore they deserve support. The work undertaken in the Extraordinary Sub-Committee and the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the proposed laws has enabled me to determine the forms of action and the extent of the powers of the Marshal's Guard. There has been an adequate division of tasks in the implementation of safeguard measures between the State Protection Service - 1 February, I will remind you, the Law on the State Protection Service enters into force and we will no longer have the BOR, the Government Protection Office and the State Protection Service - I am thinking about this division of tasks, i.e. between this service and the Marshal's Guard, and also the appropriate mechanisms for cooperation between the Marshal's Guard and other services have been provided. In view of the tasks carried out by the Marshal's Guard, it is important to define in detail how they are to be implemented - it is above all an article. 2 of the Act, an indication of the purpose and scope of the activities carried out in the framework of preventive measures - is Article. 3, it also provides for the possibility of using information about persons and threats made available by individual services to the extent necessary for the performance of tasks by the Marshal's Guard. There was a question about data processing. Ladies and gentlemen, how could any service recognise the risks posed by specific persons if it could not reach their personal data and process them? Well, that's an absurd question in itself, an absurd question. It's got to have this tool, or it's gonna be ineffective. In order to perform tasks efficiently and effectively... And that doesn't mean, by the way, that he's going to become a special service, because that was also the suggestion. I encourage you to study basic materials, information about when a given public service, uniform or non- uniform form becomes a special service, which must have characteristics. With a view to the smooth and efficient performance of tasks by Marshal's Guard officers correctly, following the regulations adopted in the Law on the State Protection Service, its powers have been defined, namely Article. Twelve, among others. in terms of legitimacy and recognition, not retention, and recognition, so it has finally been specified, of those who pose a risk. Of course, it will be necessary to cooperate with the Marshal's Guard with other services in situations that require it. The question of cooperation was also clarified mainly with the State Protection Service, but also with the Police. Issues related to the possibility of carrying out protection measures for Members and Senators outside the Sejm and Senate facilities have been abandoned. This was abandoned so that the Marshal's Guard's powers would not overlap with the powers of other formations, which would allow to focus the formation's activities on the protection of certain objects. I would add from myself that this idea was not so illogical in itself, but from the point of view of the division of competences between the servants... This is what the committee has proposed, and it is, of course, rational, but it is not unusual either, at least in my opinion. So, ladies and gentlemen, these powers will not overlap. It should also be considered positive that the Marshal's Guard will take over from the Service for the Protection of your activities related to the pyrotechnic and radiological diagnosis in respect of the Sejm and Senate facilities. This year, which was finally planned to take over this task, with the support of the service that has been working on it so far, i.e. the Office for Government Protection, since 1 February of the State Security Service, should certainly suffice for the Marshal's Guard to take over this task. As a result, the activities of the formation will be comprehensive and will be a stand-alone structure. The deadline laid down in the Act for taking over all these tasks guarantees that the Marshal's Guard will be prepared for this. The designer provided the opportunity to provide the necessary support to the Marshal's Guard by the State Protection Service and the Police, when the forces and means of this formation would prove insufficient to respond to threats. In comparison to the first project in the subcommittee's work, as has already been mentioned, changes have also been made in order to harmonise the requirements of officers vis-à-vis other services. Here I will answer the question about the rules on disciplinary proceedings. If this is to be the service and it is to be the officers, then it must be the regulations as they are in all the other services. Besides, they have been prepared in imitation of other services. What else is criminal proceedings, and what else is investigative or disciplinary proceedings in every service. For example, for future officers of the Marshal's Guard, there are requirements that must be met by them: the absence of a conviction by a court for a criminal offence or a tax offence, the willingness to submit to professional discipline, and the provision of a three-year preparatory service. The regulations concerning the transfer to the Marshal's Guard were also added, and vice versa. This is very important in the correlation of all these pay issues, with allowances. It's important that on the one hand servants didn't pick up officers, and on the other hand, there's an opportunity to move from one formation to another, because it's often that. simply needed in a given service, and the transition to another does not necessarily mean a big breach, a loss, because sometimes there are more specialists in a given field in one service, and others lack it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 66 The Marshal's Guard Act adopted regulations on the remuneration of Marshal's Guard officers identical with the provisions of the Law on State Protection Services. These formations are the closest to each other, the most related in their tasks, in their pragmatism. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The provisions of the Law introducing the Law on the Marshal's Guard - I am talking about this, because there were doubts earlier in the work on the Law on the State Protection Service - were correlated with the Law on the State Protection Service and the Law on the Police or other laws governing the operation of individual services in order to ensure consistency of all these regulations. Finally, I would like to ask you to think about the Sejm, the Senate, the parliament, the Polish parliament, as a separate place, other than the status of government authorities. That is why the fact that Parliament will have its own protective service, its own, not the government's, is of great importance here, in fact also in terms of constitutional references. I'm thinking about division of competences. It would be better if the service under the Marshal of the Sejm was efficient in this place, not the service under the government, so it seems to me personally, because this is such a little extraterritorial area, isn't it? So far, the government's services have had to deal with security. Of course, the Marshal's Guard, to the extent it has done so far, has also done so, but now it will receive more complete tools, better instruments. I wish all the guards of the Marshal's Guard to be calm here, but to be prepared to respond to any threats. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u377	Thank you very much. I now ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! There's been some questions. Ms Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform asked about disciplinary provisions as well as I heard whether they should be defined so precisely in the act itself. Well, ladies and gentlemen, these are disciplinary provisions similar to those in the Police or the State Protection Service. Since we are introducing a law that creates a uniform service, there is no reason why disciplinary responsibility in the Marshal's Guard should be different after the introduction of this law than in the Police or in the State Protection Service. On the other hand, privileges, powers and powers are similar, and they are set up in the same way as in other services. So that these rules should be consistent. She also asked if they had to be specified until the law. The requirements of the proper procedure, the legislators state that such legislation should be carried out at the level of the law, because, firstly, it builds up certain stability, transparency and stability for many years, if the law contains certain provisions, a specific disciplinary procedure. These are simply the requirements of modern legislation, and that is what lawyers are paying attention to. Mr Piotr Kaleta noted something very important. It is the security of parliamentarians, Members and Senators, of the Sejm's staff, but indeed, Mr, we have many guests in the Sejm, starting with the presidents of states, the most important officials of various international organisations, to the guests who visit the Sejm - simply Polish citizens, including children, including children from primary schools, secondary schools, but also various kinds of trips, organized from work establishments, including older people, visit Parliament, and very, very many. In addition, we have in Parliament various kinds of celebrations, when we also host various guests, such as occasional exhibitions or various public holidays, when we host a diplomatic corps. And what you said is about the safety of the guests. This is an extremely important issue and the professional Marshal's Guard should therefore be equipped with instruments which will absolutely ensure this safety. Mr Józef Lassota's question from the Civic Platform club concerned the reasons for the collection of data. Well, now that it's art. 3 of the Marszałkowska Guard Act in the field of activities in point 2 states that the Marszałkowska Guard reveals persons and events and recognizes places and phenomena which may be related to the threat of protected persons and the safety of protected facilities and devices, it must also collect these data from the machine. Otherwise, she wouldn't be able to do her job. Hence such powers as data collection. Thank you very much. And once again, I would like to thank the Kukiz Club15 and the Polish People's Party Club for supporting the bill. It is indeed a law, which is a law for 2018, when we have a century of regaining independence, when we could finally sort these issues out, these issues will be resolved. There is no doubt that we should anticipate the threat. Even if any of you... I think, as I recall, the Member of the Modern Club, Mr Meysztowicz said that he did not feel threatened. But it is not about whether or not a Member feels threatened. We create a professional service to respond to challenges and threats for the future, this year and in the years to come. And that's why uniforms are being created to prevent threats. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u379	Thank you very much. Please, as a correction, Mr Józef Lassota.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u380	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I think we speak in two different languages when it comes to collecting personal data, because when it comes to protecting people outside the Sejm and the Senate, it is another service, so I do not know why the Marshal's Guard would do this. As far as protection is concerned, the Marshal's Guard is to protect people also in the area of the Sejm and the Senate, it is actually enough to verify those who get here. So this translation is completely out of line with what we really understand. At least that's what I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u381	Thank you. The discussion is closed. As amendments and rejection requests were tabled during the second reading of both drafts, I propose that the Sejm re-direct these projects to the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission for reporting. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity: - a parliamentary draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, - a draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland (prints No 2009, 2112 and 2134). I ask Mrs Halina Szydleko to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u382	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report of the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, No. 2009, and a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm presented by the Sejm Bureau, No. 2112. Marshal of the Sejm, based on art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 16 November 2017, the draft resolution in print No 2009 and on 8 December 2017 submitted by the Sejm Bureau a draft resolution in print No 2112 to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure Committee for First Reading. The Commission carried out the first reading of the draft resolution in print no. 2009 at its meeting on 21 November 2017 and the first reading of the draft resolution in print no. 2112 on 14 December 2017. The draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm provides for the introduction of legal solutions which are designed by the Marshal of the Sejm to ensure the seriousness and order of the sitting room. In particular, the proposed provisions aim to reduce non-regulatory Members' speeches. A new ordering authority has been provided for the Marshal of the Sejm. If he finds that he has violated the seriousness of the Sejm by his conduct in the sitting room, he will be able to reprimand him. On this basis, the Bureau of the Sejm will be able to adopt a resolution to reduce the Member's salary to an amount not exceeding half of that salary or diet in full for a maximum period of 3 months. The draft also provides for the question to be asked before the vote to be decided by the Marshal of the Sejm. If Marshal Sejm allows questions to be asked before the vote, only one Member from the club or the circle will be able to ask the question. These amendments aim to counter the abuse of formal proposals and corrections by Members of the institutions. It is therefore proposed to introduce the power of the Marshal of the Sejm to request formal applications in writing, as well as to introduce a mechanism for not considering identical formal applications. The draft also provides for a correction time limit of 1 minute. The proposed regulation also concerns time limits for meetings of committees, sub-committees and parliamentary teams. It introduces a 3-week cycle, not, as it currently does, a 2-week cycle. The proposed regulation introduces the principle that the meetings of the Sejm committees are held on days when the Sejm does not take place, while leaving the Marshal the possibility of not agreeing to the sitting of the committee. If there is a need for a committee meeting on the day on which the Sejm is held, such a meeting may be held only if the Marshal of the Sejm agrees. The consequence of these arrangements is that the committee which was convened with the agreement of the Marshal on the day of the Sejm's deliberations cannot extend its agenda. These solutions are also applicable to subcommittees and parliamentary teams. Already during the committee meeting, many Members pointed out that the introduction of a three-week series of Sejm meetings would lead to the fact that Members would not have enough time to meet their constituents in their districts. This would certainly also increase travel costs for those Members who are not from Warsaw. Five amendments were tabled during the committee's work. They concerned the possibility of holding committee meetings and meetings of the Sejm after consideration of the agenda, the deletion of the entry concerning the Marshal's consent to the sitting of the committee, when it is to be held on the date on which the Sejm is not held, and the need to consider the current information submitted by the opposition clubs at least one meeting per month. The Commission rejected four amendments and, as suggested by the Legislative Office, one on the dates of entry into force of the 2009 and 2012 amendments to the Rules of Procedure, adopted. The Commission shall, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, submit a request for minority information which concerns current information, in particular the number of questions raised by individual parliamentary clubs and the time limits for examining them. Following the examination of both projects at its meeting on 14 December 2017, the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs Committee asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u383	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mrs Halina Szydleko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u384	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, print No. 2009 and the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm presented by the Sejm Bureau on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, print No. 2112. The proposed amendments assume the granting of new powers to the Marshal of the Sejm in the event of an infringement by the Member of the Sejm's seriousness. Nobody's perfect, any of us can get upset, which, of course, is not an excuse. However, there are Members who often and deliberately violate the seriousness of the Sejm. There can't be an agreement. [[Mr Terlecki.]] The penalties proposed in the draft should lead to reflection and reflection on your own behaviour. [[Oh...]] The proposed project also envisages calling the Sejm in a 3-week cycle. Many Members, and from various clubs, have long expressed reservations about the deadlines for the meetings of committees, subcommittees and parliamentary teams at the Sejm. The result was an empty plenary room during the session of the Sejm. Members could not participate in the debate. Sometimes they asked questions and could not hear the answer because they had to return to the committee meeting. Hence the proposed solution. However, already at the committee meeting, many Members raised concerns about this 3-week cycle, which would make it difficult for Members to work in the districts. [[That's what you just said.]] Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I propose amendments to the draft resolution, which include deletion in the article. 1 points 1 and 3, which relate precisely to this 3-week series of Sejm meetings. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The following point 2a is inserted after point 2: If the first reading of the draft is carried out at the meeting of the Sejm, the Sejm Bureau may set the limit on the questions referred to in paragraph 1. 1, Members of the various clubs and circles and Members of the non-members. When determining the limit of questions, the Sejm Bureau shall take into account the size of the club or the circle. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The following point 2b is inserted after point 2a: The Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. This report shall not be discussed unless the Sejm decides otherwise. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The following point 4a is inserted after point 4: Statements during the examination of the agenda item, unless otherwise specified in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, shall not last more than 15 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may consent to the extension of the speech. The rule of the mouth. 1a shall not apply to the examination of applications referred to in Article. 112, Art. 115 and Article 115 thereof. 117. Art. 2 is replaced by the following: The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its publication. In view of the circumstances presented, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I state that the club will support this project together with the amendments tabled. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u385	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed changes demolish the Polish public debate, demolish the Polish parliamentary democracy, which is why on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Platform is asking me to reject this proposal at second reading. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] The proposed changes give absolute power to the Marshal of the Sejm. He will decide who, when and in what form will be able to file a formal application. He's the one who's gonna decide who and when he's gonna be able to ask a question in this room. He will decide when and whether a parliamentary committee or a parliamentary team may meet at all. He will finally decide who has violated the seriousness of the Sejm, and he will punish Members for violating the seriousness he himself has declared. The provisions of the sentence so far provide only, of course, for Members who prevented the work of the Sejm, and now the authoritarian Marshal of the Sejm will state that someone has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. At this point I would like to point out that from the moment when the first project, which contained the wording: violation of the seriousness of the Sejm, appeared in this House, Mr. Marshal Kuchciński It is not uncommon for Members of the opposition to use the phrase: Madame has violated, Mr Sejm has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. Such power will be given to Marshal Kuchciński and PiS since the adoption of these changes. Let me remind you: Marshal Kuchciński ruled out Mr Szczerba from the Sejm for his words: Mr. Marshal, dear, music eases customs, which caused protests of Poles throughout the country, but he did not notice anything wrong in voting for two hands of Mrs. Zwierzan, whose matter was not dealt with by the rule committee, Mr President, to this day. Mrs Zwierzan, during the previous debate on the seriousness of the Sejm, stated from this speaker, then she took the floor after me that these changes would result in the smooth and cultural course of the Sejm meeting. I'm sure he's fit to vote for his colleagues. Let us return to the fact that Mr Sejm's Marshal did not seem at all strange when his piS colleague, Mr Pyzik, showed the gesture of the middle finger to the Members of the Civic Platform. Also in no manner used in relation to Members of the Civic Platform the phrase: "Do not wipe your murders with my brother's name. You destroyed him, you killed him, you're scumbags, and you didn't impress the marshal either. This asymmetry in the treatment of members of the PiS and opposition beats the eye. It's Kale's morality, the morality in which, as we've heard, the PiS are masters, and the opposition is a worse sort. It would seem interesting to see other changes, but looking at the amendments made on behalf of the PiS Club, and at what is really important in these changes that are proposed in these projects, i.e. the introduction of mechanisms closing the mouth of the opposition, it is not important whether Members of the opposition will remain silent in this Seym every 2 or every 3 weeks. This is absolutely not important for the future of Poland, for the future of the parliamentary debate, for the future of our country. It's just bullshit and we're not voting for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u387	Thank you. Mr Truskolaski will now speak. [[Me too.]] Excuse me, Mr Łukasz Rzepecki from the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u388	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present the position of the club concerning the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunities on the draft resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and the draft resolution submitted by the Sejm Bureau on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. May I begin by asking the question: What is the purpose of these changes? Why are they being introduced right now? What are they caused by? The main assumption by applicants is The fact that the Marshal of the Sejm will be able to state that the Member has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. How's he gonna say that? On what grounds? What's he gonna do? As the Marshal of the Sejm finds, the Sejm Bureau will be entitled to impose a penalty for a maximum of half or a full parliamentary allowance for a period of 3 months. Another amendment is the modification of the provision relating to the questioning of questions before the vote. It indicates that it will be optional to allow questions to be asked. We hope that all Members will be able to ask questions, regardless of party membership, that Members will not be divided into better and worse, better - because they are from the Law and Justice, from the same club as Mr Marshal, and worse, or those from the opposition. I have a question for the applicants: is this your democratic package? Not in my opinion. As Members, we must all take care of the good name of this House, ensure compliance with the rules of procedure, behave properly in the High House. I'm saying this with reference to the protest on December 16th that the total opposition from the Civic and Modern Platform has made. Another change is that the Marshal of the Sejm will be able to request a formal application in writing. We often see that formal proposals are used to raise political quarrels, do not serve a substantive discussion or debate, although we do not know whether writing a proposal will change that. As for the print project 2112, the Sejm committees would in principle be convened on days other than the Sejm meetings. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the sitting of the committee on the day of the meeting of the Sejm, which must be justified. According to Kukiz15, the changes proposed by the Sejm Bureau are at least strange. In practice, in our opinion, it is intended to be a modification of the parliamentary calendar for the week of the committee, the plenary week and the week in the region. This change, in our view, will result in Members being less in the electoral district, further away from the voters. We won't be allowed to do that. As Kukiz,15 we are opposed to the proposed changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u389	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski from the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft resolutions presented by the governing party concerning changes to the Sejm's rules show which direction Poland is headed under the PiS. The changes will gag Members of the opposition during the parliamentary debates. Let us start by saying that there should be no joint debate on them because they deal with completely different issues. Why did you put these projects together in committee? Are you afraid that the PiS Members will not vote in favour of the new agenda? That is why you had to link this to sanctioning the statements of the opposition Members? The PiS resolutions provide for the possibility of reducing the remuneration of parliamentarians in the event of a breach of the seriousness of the Sejm. And mostly this project in my speech, I'll take care of it. But it's not just that, it's not just that, and it's that you're going to be able to reduce your salary for violating the Sejm's seriousness. The question must therefore be asked: What is the seriousness of the Sejm and when is it violated? Why did none of the applicants know how to answer the question of what it is to violate the seriousness of the Sejm during the procedure of the previous Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator? I don't really know what it is so far, so maybe someone from the ruling party will finally answer me the question of what it is to violate the seriousness of the Sejm and when the marshal will actually be able to punish Members. As a representative of the opposition, I am afraid, bearing in mind the existing practice of the PiS, that only Members of the opposition will be sanctioned, as has been the case so far. Why didn't Mrs Pavłowicz receive punishment for insulting a German minority member, and why wasn't Mr Pyzik's middle fingerman punished financially? Isn't it a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm that Mr Kaczyński read the cat Atlas during this House's proceedings? Is this the violation of the Sejm's seriousness? Isn't it a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm to insult Members and disturb the speeches that Mr Terlecki did to me, who said to me: you fool, get out of here? Is it not in violation of the seriousness of the Sejm that Mr Kaczyński put forward in no way with the call of opposition scumbags and treacherous murders? So it is clear from the examples I have cited that the PiS amendments are to strike opposition. The Marshal of the Sejm, thanks to his rights, will become the first censor of the Republic of Poland. He will supervise and punish Members for saying words they will not like. We, as Members of the opposition, are not afraid of punishment and will not submit to the censorship of the Marshal of the Sejm. Since Poland regained its freedom, the Sejm has been and should continue to be a place where you can freely express your thoughts and views. Another concern of the opposition is the possibility to limit the questioning in the third reading, but, as we have learned from your PiS Member, not only in the third reading, as these questions will also be limited in the rest of the Parliament's debates. Members shall ask questions during the voting process and during the first and second readings so as to ultimately decide how to vote on the draft and to dispel any doubts about the draft or the amendment concerned. Now asking questions will depend on the good will of the Marshal of the Sejm, which, as we know, is rarely shown in relation to Members of the opposition. In accordance with the draft, the Marshal may also request that a formal application, which is submitted during the deliberations, be made in writing. This is another way of gagging, preventing us from speaking. Formal proposals are often made immediately before discussions on the most worrying issues in our country. The submission of applications in writing will imply that Members will not be able to express their views on the subject and that Mr Marshal will gag us, prevent us from speaking. Thus, after a deeper understanding of the demands of PiS, I dare say that the aim of the rulers is to censor and intimidate the opposition, so that it will not humbly oppose the PiS plans to destabilize Poland by imposing severe penalties on Members. And it will mainly concern Members of the opposition, because, as we know, no member of the governing party has yet been financially punished in this term of office. Dear Marshal! On behalf of the Poselski Club Modern proposal to reject these projects at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u391	Now please take the floor of Mr Piotr Zgorzelski from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I will present our position on the report of the committee on draft resolutions on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, prints no. 2134, 2009, 2112. High Izbo! A remarkable resolution initiative. Two projects, which will effectively eliminate all forms of democracy in the Sejm, will bring the Marshal's dictatorship to Members. You ban parliamentary assembly meetings. The marshal will say no and that's it. He doesn't have to justify it in any way. Numerous teams are in the Sejm and function in the current term of office, such as the Parliamentary Group. The defence of Polish Self-government is very popular. It will have huge problems to function, because the will of the marshal will be decisive here. You want to eliminate the assembly meetings during the session of the Sejm. I have no doubt that the marshal will be happy to apply this principle. The next solutions of your democratic package are a system of penalties, financial penalties for Members of Parliament, at the discretion of no one else, but a democratic Marshal of the Sejm. The Marshal may say that the Member's conduct in the sitting room has violated the seriousness of the Sejm. According to what criteria? What's the seriousness? Often it is the attitude of the marshal and the way in which the proceedings are conducted that violates the seriousness and authority, and your actions destroy everything that is possible. You're disassembling independent institutions and yelling loudly that the sovereign wanted to. Another democratic solution: the chairman of the committee must notify the date and agenda of the committee's meeting - and this surprise - the Marshal of the Sejm, and in the case of the meeting to be held on the day of the meeting of the Sejm, the notification shall also include a justification for the need to convene the meeting. Then maybe only the marshal has the right to convene a committee. Then you won't have to set up a committee bureau, because it'll all be in one hand. Further facilities for Members of the opposition: no possibility to ask questions. You want to introduce the German Sejm, which has already been very disdainful in Polish history. It's not enough to limit formal applications. What's the point of any unnecessary conclusions? You have a monopoly on the entire Sejm and the Senate. Why don't we make a statement that the bill by PiS after 14 days of submission becomes applicable law? After all, the Constitutional Tribunal will not find such a provision incompatible with the Constitution. The Polish People's Party Club will vote against changing the rules of procedure that violates the principles of Polish parliamentarianism. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u393	Thank you. Now, please take the floor of Mr Ireneus and I will profit from the Free and Solidarnia wheels.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u394	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarnia, I present my position on the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs, in print No. 2134, on the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in print No. 2009 and on the draft resolution tabled by the Bureau of the Sejm on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, in print No. 2112. In accordance with the decision of the Rules of Procedure Committee, the High Chamber shall deal with two draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm together. The first one, by Members of the Law and Justice, follows, among others. from the amended amendment to the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. It introduces the possibility of reducing the remuneration of parliamentarians in the event of a breach of the seriousness of the Sejm. Having in mind the worse scenes in the sitting room of the Polish Sejm... [[It's a two-hand vote.]] ...from December 2016, when Members of the total opposition attempted to destabilize the work of the Sejm by blocking the Seym Speaker, I believe that the amendments proposed in the draft resolution are necessary. If we do not decide to accept them, the destruction of political culture in Parliament will deepen and the authority of the Sejm will be further weakened. The draft provides for the introduction of solutions to ensure that the Marshal of the Sejm ensures the seriousness and order of the sittings. In particular, the proposed provisions aim to reduce non-regulatory Members' speeches. The project provides for a new ordering authority of the Marshal of the Sejm. If the marshal finds that he has violated the seriousness of the Sejm by his conduct in the sitting room, he will be able to reprimand the Member. On this basis, the Sejm Bureau will be able to adopt a resolution on the reduction of the Member's salary or diet. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: He never punished you.]] The positive change is that the Marshal of the Sejm will be able, but he will not be obliged to allow questions to be asked before the vote. The experience so far clearly indicates that most of these questions are parliamentary statements in completely different matters. [[What do you say?]] They often do not even concern the draft law to which the vote relates, but political events which differ from the essence of the matter, which will disorganize the work of the Sejm. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The second of the projects discussed today aims to introduce the principle of convening the Sejm meetings in the 3-week cycle. Currently, the Sejm usually gathers for 3 days every 2 weeks. During this time, committee meetings shall be held. Following the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm committees, they will be held on the days on which the Sejm is not held, and if there is a need to convene a meeting of the Sejm on the day on which the Sejm is held... [[Voice from the room: Amendments were made.]] ...it will be necessary to attach a justification to the notification of the meeting. However, the Marshal of the Sejm will be able to decide not to agree to the sitting. These arrangements shall also apply to meetings of the subcommittees and parliamentary teams. In the current state of law, the chairman of the committee is obliged to notify the Marshal of the Sejm of the date and agenda of the meeting of the committee - Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council The Marshal of the Sejm may not agree to the sitting. The proposed amendments to the work schedule of the House aim, inter alia, at: improving attendance at both committee meetings and work in the sitting room. Many voters - and they are the ones who choose their representativeship to the High House - watching the Sejm's deliberations and seeing a few parliamentarians in the room, ask themselves: What is our money going on? Members themselves often have to run from committee to committee. The amendments proposed in the draft resolutions will improve the work of the Sejm and improve, I very much believe, the opinion of citizens about the institution of the Sejm as such. I think it is our common duty to take care to raise the authority of the Sejm among the public. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Circle of Members of the Free and Solidarni will support... [[And if they didn't back it up once, what would they do?]] ...a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland presented by the Sejm Bureau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u395	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Huskowski from the European Union of Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! He doesn't remember how he was a calf - there's an old Polish saying. It fits absolutely perfectly with the current situation, the situation of law and justice, which introduces the democratic package by means of three draft laws. This democratic law and justice package has been promoting since October 2011. I've got it right in front of me... There was a press conference in which Law and Justice took part, President Kaczyński, announcing a democratic package, extending the rights of the parliamentary opposition, e.g. the removal of existing agenda items, such as asking questions on current issues, information, and replacing this with a three-hour session, so to speak, asking questions to the government, the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers by Members of the opposition, with the exclusion of members of government. It was a law and justice project. Extending the public hearing, introducing a public hearing if the opposition wishes to do so, as well as strengthening the citizens' initiative, i.e. not being able to vote against the citizens' project, signed by at least 100,000. citizens, at first reading, i.e. the need for further work. What's left of it, PiS? What's left of it? Yeah, it's been so crawling... Some older Members - internship, because I am an older intern, but young in spirit and age - remember that during the third reading we could ask questions, many Members from each club could ask questions, not one. So far it's been reduced to one, and now it's going to be reduced to zero. This is the democratic package of law and justice. The imposition of a muzzle on Members of the opposition, because the introduction of a provision on the violation of the seriousness of the Sejm clearly concerns the opposition. It will certainly not concern Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, who was absolutely in violation of the seriousness of the Sejm, shouting from this speaker, screaming that the savage murders of Berlin were de facto depicting Berlin's interests, whether the judges who had dual citizenship, Warsaw or Berlin, or Mrs Pawłowicz, who called during the discussion about doctors who unfortunately go abroad and who are less and less in Poland: Let them go. Doesn't that affect the seriousness of the Sejm? He violates, I'm sure he does, but I don't think any of them would have been punished if there had already been a law. On the other hand, Mr Sławomir Nitras, our marshal's favorite, will soon deserve the punishment of this provision. Ladies and gentlemen! The Union of European Democrats, like opposition clubs, clearly opposes this law. This is a bad law restricting, strongly restricting the powers of a Member as representative of his constituents and representative of the nation. This is the caricature of the democratic package. You introduced this concept to Parliament in October 2011. This concept, deepened by explaining the meaning of this package, has been introduced in the election campaign. In the last election campaign, you spoke a lot about the democratic package - another unfulfilled promise - which simply went to a lame man in 2015, in the fall when you won the elections. So that the Union of European Democrats [[♪ The bell ♪]] She will vote against these projects. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u397	At this end we concluded our statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm assigning one minute to ask a question. I'll close the list after I ask you the first question. I would like to ask the question of Mrs Henryka Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u398	Marshal, congratulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u399	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, my question is addressed to the applicants. What criteria will the marshal follow by punishing Members? As I recall, on December 16th, I wasn't in the O.R., and yet I was punished. Let me tell you, I was in the hospital. When the marshal realized I wasn't in this room, he punished me in December 2nd. Even though I tried, I tried to explain that my question was about the case, it didn't work, just because I was voted out by Mr. Tyska, who doesn't like me. So once again, I'm asking you if you're still a marshal who's gonna make these kinds of decisions to punish us for everything. Maybe we'll have to sit in the O.R. seriously and not smile. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope he doesn't mind. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u401	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Grzegorz Furga from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u402	Good luck with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u403	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the silent Seym. I remind you: 1 February 1717, the same place, Warsaw, King August II Strong. Name for not allowing Members to vote. In parliamentary and cabinet systems, which we are in, the Sejm is the highest authority of the state. You want to put on an opposition gag. I have another proposition for you. What the hell is this Seym for? You guys take it out. You guys are so in love with each other that you don't need the opposition at all. Make it a museum because you can meet in Novgorodska. What's the point of this whole circus we're doing anyway? Parliament serves as a place of dispute, and you do not allow this dispute. You'll pay a terrible price someday. It's yours very much, but it's a very big embarrassment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u405	Now I would ask Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel from the Civic Platform to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u406	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! With these changes in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, you want to limit the possibility of us asking questions and holding debates on topics that are often uncomfortable for you. You're trying to limit our democratic right of expression. By means of these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, you are restricting our democratic rights. A little more, and you will write down that the opposition does not have the right to vote at all and, as my previous colleague said, it is best to eliminate the Sejm at all. What do you need all this for? As a colleague rightly said, you can meet in Nowogrodzka, and the marshal can determine everything himself. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 182 is written that the Marshal may, but he does not have to allow questions to be asked before the vote, which will practically mean that the Marshal may not allow us to speak at all. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that the purpose of this change...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u407	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u408	...the rule of law to gag our lips completely and introduce the Marshal's dictatorship? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u409	Now please take the floor of Mr Józef Lassota from the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u410	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We were just discussing the Marshal's Guard. It must be made clear that the marshal creates an armed arm, right? Now we know why he needs that arm. So that at last in the Seym it would be just like in the PiS, so that everyone would speak with one voice, so that there would be discipline. [[Applause]] The question is simple: Do you really want to move your model from Nowogrodzka to the Sejm? It's obvious you're moving, but do you realize that? On the other hand, it's actually disrespectful of the PiS and the PiS government when they ask questions, when 95% or 99% There's no answer anyway, it shows that you just don't care about the whole substantive side. You're just looking at what you're gonna find. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or what the president's gonna say. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u411	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Truskolas from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft resolution contains three things. The first is the seriousness of the Sejm, which I already asked about in my previous speech. When it comes to violating this seriousness of the Sejm: is it when Members of the PiS do it or only when Members of the opposition do it? I hope I finally get the answer to that question. The next item of this resolution is the possibility for Members to ask questions at third reading. Now I have a question about when this possibility will be. Will it depend only on the good or bad humor of your marshal? Will it depend on whether the President is in a hurry or not? I have a question, ladies and gentlemen, when will we be able to ask questions at third reading? The third point is the formal proposals. It turns out that since the next meeting [[♪ The bell ♪]] We won't be able to...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u413	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u414	...and the Members will be gagged in this House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u415	Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Głogowski from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u416	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask the applicants whether they did not think that Parliament should be a place of debate, of discussion even on difficult subjects, even a turbulent discussion, and whether these projects were moving towards a reduction of discussion. After all, the fact that the Marshal may allow questions to be asked during the voting process is equally easy to read that he may not allow it, isn't it? The discussion should also be limited to bringing formal proposals to the written proposals. Of course, in both this term and in all previous cases, there has been a situation that, when it comes to formal applications, this formula has been abused to speak, but if you want to eliminate this abuse, it is worth introducing a different formula, the possibility for political parties to speak on important political issues. There is a proposal in the committee, a draft precisely such a revision of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, so that every day a parliamentary club can make a declaration on an important matter so that this procedure of formal applications does not need to be abused. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question is, why isn't that project being processed, it hasn't been included...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u417	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u418	...to those, though it would be natural. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u419	Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchuni from the Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u420	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The word "parliament" comes from the French "parler" - speak, talk. [[Voice from the room: Parle, parle, dry throat.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that for the century of independence PiS will have to prepare some draft resolution in which it will change this name to something else, because the State has prepared a project which clearly closes the debate in Parliament. This country is responsible for the fact that in the century of independence there is a shameful project in the High House that wants to close the mouth of Members of the Sejm. The same is true of such associations: a place of isolation surrounded by fences and guards. Ladies and gentlemen, what world do we live in? What are you doing? What are you doing? Answer me the question of what is the pattern of penalties: whether it be North Korea or Russia, because in other parliaments, yes, there are penalties, but these are penalties, I would say, minimal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What you've proposed is some draconian punishment to close your mouth. Why are you punishing me? What's the pattern? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u421	Hello again. Good evening. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, the Civic Platform Club, will ask another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u422	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After so many days of debate and here, and in committee, I wanted to ask the Members of the House once again a question about the examples that I, and my colleagues, have cited in this House. I wanted to get a clear answer to the question of whether the return, Mr. Marshal, dear, the music soothes customs is... [[Kara.]] ...a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm... [[He's violating.]] ...or not. Is voting for two hands of Mrs. Mirror a violation of the Sejm's seriousness or not? Is the challenge from the treacherous murders by Mr Kaczyński a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm or not? [[No.]] Is Mr Pyzik showing the middle finger to the Members of the opposition a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm or not? Is Mrs Pavłowicz's behaviour a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm, or is it not a violation of the seriousness of the Sejm? Did the thief scream at the honest people of this bleacher, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That they're thieves is a violation of the Sejm's seriousness, isn't it? Is screaming by a communist prosecutor to anti-communist activists that they are Communists a violation of the Sejm's seriousness or not? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u423	Thank you. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Listening to words makes me afraid where I am. But to the point of changing the rules of the Sejm. To the rapporteur: Do there really have to be financial penalties, or better to scare the fireman? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Isn't it better to do this as was done by former Marshal Niesiołowski, whose behaviour I saw on TV during the Sejm meetings in the previous term? When the speaker did not immediately start asking questions, but did a small introduction, he turned off the microphone, saying that the persons concerned had not spoken about it. Don't you remember that? This was not used by Marshal Kuchciński before the coup. Members broadcast here a day and a half from this podium. Political speeches - they did not talk about amendments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it bounced back later with that box. [[And neither are you.]] And we all had to listen to it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You're not talking about it either.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u425	Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u426	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here there were questions relating to the reasons why these changes are being introduced. It seems that... not only does it seem, but I'm convinced that if the plenary room were a hall where only words fall... where hateful words don't appear, there wouldn't be any problem and we probably wouldn't make such proposals. On the other hand, I would like to present to you the model that we are using. I quote: The President of the European Parliament refers to the order of any Member who interferes with the proper conduct of the sitting or whose proceedings are not in accordance with the relevant provisions. In the event of a repeated disturbance by the Member, the President of the European Parliament shall, for the second time, refer him to the order in the minutes. In the event of further disruption of order or subsequent violation of order, the President of Parliament may remove his voice and order him to be removed from the sitting room by the end of the meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The Union's a model for you?]] Moreover, it has the right, with the help of janitors and, if necessary, the protection services of the European Parliament to escort such a person. And, Marshal, just one more question: sanctions. First: reprimand, second: loss of the right to receive a daily subsistence allowance for a period of between 2 and 30 days, third: without prejudice to the right to vote in plenary, subject to strict respect in this case of the standards of procedure, temporary suspension of participation in all or part of the work of the European Parliament - no, we will not decide to introduce this - further, the prohibition on the representation of the European Parliament by a Member in inter-parliamentarians in the event of a breach of... Besides, there could be financial penalties.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u427	Mr President, it's been a long time to move beyond...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u428	But it is the European Parliament that suggests such drastic solutions to Members who violate the rules of procedure. [[Tell me about the amount of the penalties, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u429	But you've appointed a minute for the marshal. And here's almost two.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u430	Thank you. I'm sorry. [[Applause]] [[Your own PiS marshal has set the time for this, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u431	Mr Andrzej Maciejewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u432	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the applicants. I understand that the biggest problem when it comes to the seriousness of our House is what comes out of this House, which is the quality of the law. Unfortunately, in these projects, I do not see solutions that will improve the quality of the law. For the last two years I have had the opportunity to be in different parliaments, hence a few comments on matters which I do not see in the projects submitted by you. The number of committees in the Polish Parliament beats Europe's records, we have excess committees. That's the first point. The second - if someone tells me that a Member who is in three committees knows and knows about everything, I no longer believe him after 2 years, because today he runs between committees, guarding the attendance list first - does not guard the quality of work, does not watch what he is working on. In short: one Member, one Committee - a simple principle. The quality of the law and the seriousness of the Sejm will be rebuilt very quickly, ladies and gentlemen. And the last place in public polls - that's gonna change fast, it's gonna improve, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the quality of the law will be felt by citizens, not politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u433	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice, will ask the final question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a parliamentarian. not the first term, for eight years I was on the other side, i.e. the opposition, and I know more or less how much a parliamentarian can do. They're asking questions about who's gonna judge. It's already been evaluated - it's already been evaluated. Just refer to the opinion of Prof. Chmaj e.g. It's about me. You can refer to the same professor's opinion about other people from the opposition then, other professors. Take examples from the previous term of office of how opposition parliamentarians were treated. There's really enough material for these changes. I wish that wasn't the case in this term. Thanks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this term, the opposition may not be treated as it has been treated in the previous 8 years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Excuse me, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u435	It's okay. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u436	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I am the representative of the applicants, but only for project No 2009, which introduces sanctions for breach of the seriousness of the Sejm and concerns questions at the time of the third reading. High Izbo! Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, the chairman of the Rules of Procedure Committee, quoted what the drafters had modeled on in this proposal. It is the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament. There are such sanctions for violating the rules of procedure. [[But there are no such draconian punishments.]] Read the article. 9, Art. 152, Art. 153... [[We read it.]] These sanctions are very strict. Twice the warning and removal from the room by janitor and, if necessary, by Parliament's security service. Financial penalties for daily allowance - from 2 to 10 days. Daily diet is 308 euros. Let me remind you - sanctions that deprive you of taking part in Parliament's work for a period of between 2 and 10 days at a plenary session or in certain bodies. [[One daily diet.]] And further sanctions, if a parliamentarians exercise any functions by choice, then it is a request to the Conference of Presidents to request that it be removed from this function by Parliament. So sanctions are much more severe than ours. And what have they been like so far? There weren't any. First... [[How wasn't it? How wasn't it?]] As for the seriousness of the Sejm, there were no sanctions. [[Yeah, for the PiS, but for the opposition, they were.]] The first Sejm elected democratically in a free elections in 1991 adopted the Rules of Procedure in 1992 and in these general rules just introduced the seriousness of the Sejm. It is to be taken care of by the marshal leading the deliberations, i.e. the Vice-Marshals, and he is to keep an eye on the agenda. The Sejm's seriousness is worthy of this room's conduct. This is a general clause, and all the behaviours that you have mentioned here, which have already been cited, but I want to recapitulate them, i.e. slanders, insults, slanders, various offensive epithets, certain gestures that have taken place here, which you have quoted, banging, choking, humming, when a Member comes out with one or another name, are really unworthy of this room. For one term I was in the Senate as an opposition senator, but I did not meet with such a level of political culture during the debate. I urge you to simply consider how you have done so far. Do we really care about the culture of political dispute here, the culture of words? Do we have respect for each other? Because this kind of behavior certainly does not serve for Parliament to have the right opinion when it comes to our voters. We should all rebuild the Sejm's authority. We just have to change. High Seym! As far as these questions are concerned, in the Senate's Rules of Procedure, e.g. The third reading is just a vote, no more questions. There's time for committee work. And what did those questions look like? The vast majority, I think, if I say 90%, I will be close to the truth, these were political statements about the current events, often having nothing to do with the amendment or the proposed minority proposal, completely detached from reality. The Marshal must have these instruments. The Marshal won't punish himself. It is up to the Sejm Bureau to impose all these sanctions - the Sejm Bureau. I believe that everyone should be treated equally - and from a club that is a government majority, and from opposition clubs. Unfortunately, I believe that unworthy behaviour should simply be stigmatized by the marshals conducting the proceedings, with those remarks which result from the Rules of Procedure. To sum up, I would like to ask you to support the solutions resulting from the 2009 print. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u437	Thank you, sir. Would the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Halina Szydleko, also like to speak? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much, then. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity for the purpose of submitting a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity about the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament (prints Nos 2179 and 2208). I will ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to present a report to the committee also on this resolution. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u438	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, print No. 2179. I would like to remind you that this draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is related to the entry into force of the Act of 8 December 2017 amending the Act on the National Judicial Council and certain other laws. This law entered into force on 4 January 2018 and as a result of the amendments introduced by that law, the members of the National Council of Courts from among the judges of the Supreme Court, the general courts, military courts and administrative courts will elect the Sejm for a joint term of four years. Since such a provision has not yet been made in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, it is necessary to supplement it. This is the derivative of legislative change. I request that this draft be accepted in print 2179 without any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u439	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will ask Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u440	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present the position of this club in relation to the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, print No. 2179. Referring to the words of the rapporteur, I would like to point out that, with the entry into force of the Act of 8 December 2017 amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and certain other laws, it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in order to be able to select judges of the National Council of Courts pursuant to that Act of December 2017. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the proposal made by parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u441	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak will present his speech on behalf of the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u442	Marshal, thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure are a technical implementation of the provisions of the Act on the National Judicial Council to this Regulation. Under normal circumstances, there would be nothing to talk about, there would be no topic, but here we are dealing with something special. And because we are faced with a scandal every day with the PiS, the word scandal has actually taken its toll in this House for two years. You don't know what words you're using for what you're doing anymore. The PiS consciously and intentionally takes over, implementing the non-constitutional right to the Sejm's Rules of Procedure. These amendments are clearly implementing an unconstitutional law. It's not like you're writing an article. 187 of the Constitution, which states that the Sejm elects four members of the National Judicial Council from among its Members, is incomprehensible to someone who has no legal or logical knowledge. They are clear and understandable to anyone who reads Polish with understanding. Someone who says otherwise, or does not have this elementary knowledge of Polish, elementary common sense, or has bad will. Calling, because we talked about this in committee - and there will probably be a reply - to point 4 of this article. 187 of the Constitution, which says that the details of the KRS will be defined by a law, is only a delegation to clarify things that are not written in the Constitution. For every lawyer, for every common-minded man, it is clear that a ordinary law cannot change the constitution. You can't change the Constitution without a constitutional majority. The Constitution cannot be changed without the consent of the nation. Anyone who knowingly violates the law on the basis of a manifest non-constitutional bill... [[Speech outside the microphone]] Gentlemen, but a little calmer, okay? Just because you're breaking the law doesn't mean you have to bother me. [[I'm so sorry.]] Breaking the constitution, gentlemen, breaking the constitution, you as Piss break the will of the nation, the will of the nation expressed in the constitutional referendum. This nation has spoken about this constitution, and you break it openly and clearly. We are protesting such violation of the law and, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform makes a motion to reject the whole project at second reading. Marshal, you're welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u443	On behalf of the Kukiz club15, Mr Łukasz Rzepecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u444	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that the Act on the National Judicial Council was passed by the High Chamber, the resolution which we are proceeding is an order change related to the introduction of the selection of judges of the KRS by the Sejm. This procedure refers directly to the KRS Act. We, as Members of the Kukiz15 on the Constitutional Tribunal Act, speak clearly about the justice system: the courts are to serve the citizens, not the political parties, not the judges. Law and Justice, preparing and then voting this law, took full responsibility for changes in Polish judiciary. We hope as Kukiz,15 that these laws will bring real changes for the better in Polish judiciary, because we all see how it has been, how it has been over the past years, in terms of the chronicity of cases, and how ordinary citizens have been treated. Law and Justice, taking full responsibility for these changes, also takes it for this regulatory change, which is this procedural change. We abstained from voting in the Act on the National Court Register, and therefore we also hold back with this resolution, because it comes directly from the provisions of the Act on the National Court Register. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u445	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski will speak on behalf of the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u446	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! PiS-owski's draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is another example of the legitimacy of this party's unconstitutional actions aimed at subjugating each aspect of our lives, both public and private. The fact that the President of Poland signed a law about the KRS similar to the one he vetoed shows his powerlessness and capitulation before the PiS. The public was lied to and mom for months with some alleged consultation. In fact, there have been cuts and divisions of influence between the government and the president in the area of justice. The National Judicial Council in accordance with the Constitution shall uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. This is how our constitution was shaped 20 years ago, based on the most democratic fundamental laws in the world, where the division of power is a basic standard from which there are no derogations. From now on, however, the PiS does not prove that it ignores the constitution, which has clearly and clearly introduced the principle of a threefold division of power in our country, which is now being demolished by the government camp. The governments, who have often appealed to the sovereign in the public debate, completely ignored the voice of citizens, legal and academic circles in judicial reform, disregarding it and not consulting anyone. However, the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which I already mentioned, has been completely ignored by me, is threatening, by the adoption of a law on KRS which is incompatible with the current basic law. This resolution is linked to the adoption of amendments to the Act on the National Court Register. And let me remind you that, as a result of these changes, the members of the National Judicial Council, elected so far from the judges of the Supreme Court, the general courts, administrative courts and military courts, will now elect the Sejm for a joint four-year term. The Supreme Court stated that the PiS-owska Act on the National Judicial Council was a clear circumvention of the Constitution. In this way, the rulers use the law in a way that is contrary to the legal system, bending it in order to pursue their party interests rather than for the reform of the justice system, as they often argued. After the prosecutor's office, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court of the National Court of Justice will become the next hostage of the PiS majority and another department under the Minister of Justice. For non-constitutional solutions, the law on the KRS was criticised by the Ombudsman, Buro Legislative Chancellery of the Sejm, National Judicial Council, judicial associations, judges of the Supreme Court and Supreme Administrative Court, OSCE office, Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe, Council of Lawyers and Legal Associations of Europe, Executive Board of the European Judicial Council Network. On the basis of this operative part, it can be concluded that the contested draft resolution should not be discussed at the meeting of this House at all, since it is subject to an unconstitutional legal act which de facto makes it dependent on the legislative authority. Therefore, the Modern requests that this project be rejected at second reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u447	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Piotr Zgorzelski on behalf of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u448	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present our position on the report of the committee on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, print no. 2179. The project is short, but very serious. You are introducing grounds for the election of members of the National Judicial Council. After many fights and protests, pretending to be president's vetoes, you're finally on the last line. You are closing in on the stubbornness of the justice system, and everything goes to the gesture of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, a man of great competence gathered in one hand. Revocation by fax to the Presidents of the Courts shall be on the agenda. You don't know when or who's gonna be called off. It is not known why such changes occur. However, it is known that there are trusted judges of the Attorney General everywhere. We used to fight for small courts, and now you're manually controlling every aspect of justice. There is still one of the few constitutional bodies left, which is the National Judicial Council, which needs to be reformed, i.e. to take over and cast its faithful activists, the PZPR family, as in Orlen or the National Media Council, it is important that now with the PiS card. In the face of a manifest violation of the Constitution, and in particular of the article. 187, and as a consequence of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Club PSL, which is against the destruction of the Polish state, will vote against the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u449	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Free and Solidarni Circle, Mr Ireneusz Gaina. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, prints no. 2179 and 2208. The draft amends the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm concerning the selection and appointment and dismissal of public bodies which are linked to the entry into force of the Act of 8 December 2017 amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and certain other laws. The resolution is the consequence of the entry into force of the Act on the National Judicial Council. The draft resolution provides for the introduction of a new provision in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm - Article. 29a paragraph. 1 extending the catalogue of actions undertaken by the Sejm for the selection of members of the National Judicial Council from the judges of the Supreme Court, universal courts, administrative courts and military courts, in accordance with the rules and procedures laid down in the Act on the National Judicial Council, and grants the Commission of Justice and Human Rights in paragraph 1. 2 of this Article powers to determine the list of candidates on which the Sejm will vote in accordance with the delegation set out in Article. 11d paragraph. The 4th KRS Act. According to Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland The National Judicial Council is the guardian of the independence of the courts and independence of judges. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary to balance and control each other between the three authorities: legislative, executive and judicial. None of these authorities can be independent of the other, it cannot be, so to speak, insensitive to the fact that these other authorities are somehow interacting with each other, because these three authorities should serve the public, should serve the citizens, should serve the Polish people. This division, also due to the clear shortcomings of the current constitution, has been and is clearly shaken. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 the constitution is said to belong to the nation and in the mouth. 2 - that the nation exercises power by its representatives or directly. The law adopted by the Sejm of 8 December 2017 amending the Act on the National Council of Courts and certain other laws will have a greater impact on the fuller application of the above mentioned law. by me the legal principles enshrined in the Constitution. According to the KRS Act, the Sejm elects 15 members of the Council from among the judges of the Supreme Court, general courts, administrative courts and military courts for a four-year term. It is also worth recalling that the argument of submission to the National Court Register to politicians is false, it is completely wrong, because it is not politicians, but the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, which is a constitutional body of the state, will elect members of the National Council of the Court. To tell the public that politicians are to make this choice is to abuse and manipulate. [[Who's gonna choose?]] After all, the Sejm also elects other representatives, such as the Ombudsman, and nobody says that he was elected by politicians, but that by the Sejm. It should be recalled that the system of selection of judges to the National Judicial Council does not differ from those in other countries of Western Europe. In the light of the provision of the Article. 187 of the Constitution, which states that the Act sets out the rules and procedures for the election of the members of the National Judicial Council, this project is compatible with the Constitution. The contested resolution will therefore introduce changes in the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, implementing the provisions of the Act on the National Court Register, which will allow implementation of the Act. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish Free and Solidarni Circle will support the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u451	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Huskowski, near the European Union of Democrats. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u452	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! You don't have to be an outstanding lawyer to make the correct interpretation of the article. 187 constitutions, an article that settles the matter in a completely different way than the draft law we are currently debating. Namely in the article. In paragraph 187. 1 is referred to the composition of the National Judicial Board and points 1 and 3 have their authors who identify part of the composition of the National Judicial Board. In paragraph 1, the President of the Republic appoints the first President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the person appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland in addition and in paragraph 3 in paragraph 1. 1 It is said that the Sejm elects the national council of four Members and the Senate chooses two Members. [[Senators.]] In the mouth, on the other hand. 1 point 2 is said to refer to judges who are members of the National Judicial Council, without determining who chooses them, but this construction according to the simple rights of logic, that since the President is assigned four, including three designated, so to speak, members of the National Judicial Council, the Sejm - four, the Senate - two, means that of the judges this majority of the National Judicial Council are not appointed by the Sejm or by the President, but, as was the case so far, by judicial meetings. There have been a lot of discussions on this subject. In our deep conviction, the law on the National Judicial Council in this respect, in which it changes the way it is chosen, is incompatible with the Constitution. The bill that we are currently debating is also inconsistent with the Constitution, and the Members of the European Union of Democrats will vote against this non-constitutional project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u453	Thank you, sir. Would any of you like to join the list of people who want to ask a question? If you don't... [[Me too.]] You're welcome, sir. I will close the list after you sign up. Question time is one and a half minutes. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Platform, will ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u454	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask, although I do not yet know to whom this question is addressed, whether a technical resolution introducing the provisions of the law, but a law on which there is a great conviction, and even the compatibility that it is in accordance with the Constitution, is also a violation of the Constitution. Is the implementation of a law, which even at the committee's meeting you defended only in such a way that you reminded her of the presumption of constitutionality, as long as the Constitutional Tribunal is examining the law, not being involved in activities which, after all, are subject to responsibility and of which those who do so should be accounted for? Isn't this bill, or is this small resolution a further step towards total destruction of the three divisions of power, subjugating the judiciary to politicians, the ruling party? Or even the fact that opposition parties announce a boycott of the process of choosing the National Judicial Council in such a way, or even the fact that of many thousands of judges in Poland it is difficult to find dozens who would like to participate in such a body, does not motivate applicants to reflect? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u455	Thank you. Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u456	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! What are you gonna do if these 15 guys don't get together? This is the first case. I hope that this will be the case, but the judges will show some solidarity and there will be no 15 candidates for the KRS. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share a little more with you, because it seems that during this year you have destroyed all the fuses of the Polish constitutional order and, ladies and gentlemen, there is such a possibility that in a few years time such people may come here from your point of view. Seeing us is gonna be a little mickey when it comes to ideas, the other side of the political scene, and you guys unlocked it all. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to warn you once again that the state must be strong in its procedure, and you have massacred all these procedures over the past two years, destroyed the tribunal, and this is probably the last law, which is like completing this work. The KRS has already fallen, all these institutions are slowly falling, but, ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to warn you that you've opened the Pandora Box. Unfortunately, I don't think we can come back from this path anymore. You destroyed the Polish country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u457	Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u458	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the applicants! I might put my question this way, because here you were very outraged when I said that these changes were unconstitutional, because the act that PiS adopted was unconstitutional in an obvious way about the National Council of Courts. Why didn't any of you at the committee's meeting use the words that this bill is constitutional, but you were just talking about presuming the constitutionality of these laws? Isn't something like this going through the mouth of the president who's a professor? Why, if you have destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal, which is politically dependent at the moment, and politically dependent on Novgorodska, on you, on the PiS, you will not wait these few weeks for the ruling of the Tribunal, which will determine that the Act on the National Judicial Council is, however, constitutional to amend the Rules of Procedure only then, but are you in a hurry? Because it's not enough that you're breaking the law, you're still in a hurry to do this law-breaking thing. Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u459	Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the sake of formalism, I will ask the question: Is the law incompatible with the Constitution? If so, which of her records? As a justification, I will allow myself to make an appeal, to ask us not to underestimate the level of debate that is taking place here in Parliament. You're already saying at this point that something is against the constitution. Just now, Mr Urbaniak said that the presumption of constitutional compatibility is irrelevant. Mr President, this is one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law. [[Applause]] As regards the solutions proposed by the Law and Justice, there can be doubts as to whether they are compatible with the Constitution, but it is absolutely impossible to say that they are incompatible because they are incompatible, the Constitutional Tribunal may decide. That's one thing. Secondly, as far as doubts are concerned, it would simply be fair if you could point out with which article of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland the provision is incompatible. Before I was in this House, before we started working on lawmaking, I also worked on lawmaking before. At least then we'd bother under your rule to point out what's against the constitution, what article, and you'd say it was against the constitution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] non-compliant and non-compliant. I call for a higher level of debate in this House. [[Applause]] [[Strangely asked question. The opposition, not the applicants.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u461	Mr President, the questions will be answered by the rapporteur of the committee and the representative of the applicants, and not by the Member of the Civic Platform. The best you can do is file a motion for corrigendum... [[That's what I'm putting together.]] ...but I don't really see the need for correction, because it's hard for you to explain to Mr Grabowski what legislation violates the Act on the National Judicial Council... [[I'd love to hear it.]] [[Voice from the room: No, no, let's move on.]] ...because that's not your job. As far as you can relate to the explanation of your speech, which Mr Grabowski did not understand as much as you would like, but I think we know from this statement that Mr Grabowski understood correctly, so please sit down. [[He didn't get it right.]] I'm not giving you the floor to correct it. [[He didn't get it right, and that's what I wanted to do. I will not answer his questions, but instead of asking the Members of the House, he asked the opposition in fact.]] But I didn't have the opportunity to pay any attention because you spoke immediately. [[It's a waste of time.]] Sit down. Sit down. I will consider your request for corrigendum following the statements of the representatives of the applicants and the rapporteur. As for Mr Grabowski, he did not really ask a question, and at most he commented on his colleague's statement, and this is not the part of the sitting and this point. Please, the representative of the applicants, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Grabowski for his very valuable and accurate indication of the role that the principle of presumption of constitutionality of acts that have entered into force plays in our functioning in Parliament. That's one thing. However, I would like to leave a slightly different point, because here very much was discussed the principle of three divisions of power, and thus more referring to the law on the National Council of Courts than to the amendment of the rules discussed today, i.e. the amendment of the rules of procedure. It is this year that we will celebrate an equal anniversary, for in 1748 the Treaty of Charles of Montescius was published. The spirit of the rights in which the principle of three divisions of power is laid down. Why am I talking about this? Therefore, in order to make the High House aware that it has been 360 years between the moment when this text was published and today. Look at this from the perspective of this principle constantly invoked by our opponents, namely the principles of the threefold division of power by Charles Montescius. If we were to say today what model this principle of three divisions of power was referring to, then probably most of the parliamentarians would say that this is actually impossible. I would therefore like to remind you that the executive authority is the power exercised by the king and by his ministers. The legislative authority is the Chamber of Commons, the House of Lords. As far as judicial authority is concerned, it was a completely different model than that used in continental Europe, and it was always different from that of the European model. How, then, can we apply this principle directly today? Yeah, you can. One can refer to the simple principle, which is contained in this model, the principle of three divisions of power, and first of all, that each of these three fundamental entities, i.e. the executive authority, the legislative authority and the judicial authority, in accordance with the principle of Montescius is created in a different way, and secondly that their separateness exists, so there is their independence and, most importantly, through mutual inhibition, the restraint takes place between the forces of these three authorities. The Act on the National Judicial Council in its essence aimed at restoring the proper measure, restoring the right balance between the legislative authority, the executive authority and the judiciary. The point was that during these twenty few years of the existence of the Third Republic, the judicial authority gained a strong advantage over the other two authorities. If we add that the model of Charles Montescius did not provide for decisions relating to the functioning of the tribunal, then we will understand that this principle is a very general principle, firstly, and secondly, that principle of the threefold division of power, in order to understand and apply it properly, should be accepted as such a principle which is transformed, is changed, because it was created in 1748, then it was first described. Thus, when we are discussing a change in the Rules of Procedure today, first of all, this change in the Rules of Procedure will in practice restore the balance between the three authorities and thus restore the Montesque principle of balance between the authorities, and secondly, create a mechanism or contribute to the fact that this judicial system will actually be a viable system and not a system that protects the interests of only corporations of judges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u463	The representative of the committee, the rapporteur... [[Voice from the room: Blind applause.]] ... Andrzej Matusiewicz. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u464	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to some club speeches and questions, because representatives of the Civic Platform and PSL clubs, but also the Modern ones, still accuse us of breaking the constitution. It is such an accusation against the bounds of political opinion and heresy of law, because breaking the constitution can be said when an article of a law is incompatible with the constitution. You agree with the Member, don't you? In this case, is there such a judgment regarding this law that an article is incompatible with the constitution? And in times of government of the PO-PSL coalition, a certain number of laws of these 8 years have already been challenged. How many convictions so far? All the laws which are contested have not yet been recognised. There are already 37 judgments, except that the articles are of course much more, because in some cases there are several or several articles incompatible with the constitution. Then you can say it's a constitutional violation, and you can't give an opinion like that. Of course, the presumption of constitutionality applies. Until the tribunal finds that out, responsible politicians should not say that this is a violation of the Constitution. I am surprised that you are so often referring to the principle of logic, especially the Member, and you cannot refer this to the article. 187, where the composition is mentioned, those 10 who do not necessarily have to be judges, i.e. we have Members and Senators elected by the Sejm and the Senate respectively, four and two, then the first President of the Supreme Court - of course the judge - the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, representatives of the President and the Minister of Justice. But 15 are chosen from among the Supreme Court judges and general, military and administrative courts. Now who's picking? That's the bill. There is a clear provision in the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 of the Constitution that the Act provides for the election of judges to the National Judicial Council. So far, what's the record? That the judicial authority in Poland chose itself, because representatives to the KRS elected general meetings of courts: Supreme Court and appeals courts, district, administrative and military. In total, there were fifteen of these judges. Now 15 judges will choose the Sejm. And the Sejm has every right to do that. Historically speaking... And in the Constitution on May 3, what was the record? Who, among other things, Did the judges choose? Who? They chose land seyms, i.e. representatives of local parliaments. And in other countries of the European Union, who chooses judges? They don't choose each other. It's either executives or legislative authorities. Many examples can be given here. They do not choose themselves as they have been in Poland so far. [[You will choose them as North Korea.]] It's gotta be changed. The Sovereign and his representative. That's all we want. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u465	Here you go, Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Civic Platform, corrigendum. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u466	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, you misunderstood. You seem to have misunderstood because you're a little late for this debate and you haven't heard it. The constitutional provisions, which are violated by the KRS Act, have been listed from the number by me, as well as by Mr Truskolas, Mr Zgorzelski and Mr Huskowski. We're all talking about the same constitutional rules, all the time. [[Which ones?]] Art. 187. [[Voice from the hall: He's broken?]] He's broken. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u467	Don't disturb me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u468	Second thing. I didn't question the principles of the presumption of constitutionality of laws, sir. I asked the president, who is a professor at the Jagiellonian University, if that's why he never got over it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] during the debate by the mouth that this law is constitutional, only it refers to the principle of presumption of constitutionality. That's all I was talking about, and I asked why the PiS wasn't waiting for the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal -- which still trashed the sentence, probably everyone here, in this room, we know -- is in a hurry with these regulations.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u469	That will be all, sir, because it is time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u470	And in this whole area, You've misunderstood me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u471	Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki - you cannot make an adjustment because you did not reply to you, but to Mr Kukiz15. You can only act as an applicant's representative. So if that's what you want, then go ahead. [[I didn't question your profession.]] Mr President, please sit down and let me finish my speech. You may act as an applicant's representative, but not as a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u472	I see. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! It's actually that I'm a professor working at the Jagiellonian University, but I'm a professor with a degree in professorship. That's one thing. [[Applause]] [[Right.]] Secondly, the second point, I believe, that the Act on the National Council of Courts and consequently these amendments will be fully in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u473	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Two requests for rejection of the draft resolution were submitted during the discussion. I therefore propose that the Sejm examine the proposals in the vote without referring the draft to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on: - a parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, - government bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, the Law on graves and war cemeteries, the Act on Museums, the Act on the liability of collective entities for acts prohibited under threat of punishment and the Act on the prohibition of the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices (prints No 771, 806 and 993). I ask Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the National Polish and Governmental Law on the Amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crimes against the National Polish National Remembrance, the Law on graves and cemeteries of war, the Law on the Liability of Collective Entities for Offences, and the Act on the Prohibition of Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian regime by the names of buildings, objects and public utility devices. The committee meeting took place more than a year ago, because on 8 November 2016, I would therefore like to recall the general assumptions of these projects. In the parliamentary project, print No.771, it is proposed to extend the scope of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals by giving a new sound in the article. 1 in point 1 (a) a and the addition of Article in the amended law. 2a defining the concept of crimes of Ukrainian nationalists and Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third Reich. The proposed amendments thus introduce the possibility to operate on the basis of Article. 55 law on IPN criminal proceedings against those denying the cause of these crimes. The government project introduces legal regulations enabling effective protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland, including a new type of crime consisting in assigning Poles or the Polish state responsibility for Nazi crimes committed by the Third German Reich, and in addition closing the legal gap in the possibility of subsidising care of graves and cemeteries of war, establishing a medal of the National Remembrance Sites. The provisions of the Civil Code on the Protection of Personal Goods apply accordingly to the protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation. Who can bring such an action? Non-governmental organization in the field of its statutory tasks, Institute of National Remembrance, to which the law grants judicial capacity. The State Treasury shall be entitled to compensation or compensation. The government project also introduces a penalty provision, Art. 55a Act on IPN, as follows: Paragraph 1 is Who publicly and contrary to facts assigns responsibility or joint responsibility to the Nationals of Poland or the State of Poland for Nazi crimes committed by the Third German Reich as defined in the article. 6 The Charter of the International Military Court annexed to the International Agreement on the Prosecution and Punishment of Major War Criminals of the European Axis, signed in London on 8 August 1945 (which is published in the Official Journal of the European Union). U., 1947 poz. 367) or for other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, crimes against humanity or war crimes or otherwise grossly reduces the responsibility of the actual perpetrators of these crimes, is punishable by a fine or sentence of imprisonment up to the age of 3. The judgment shall be made public. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 is replaced by the following: If the perpetrator of the act referred to in paragraph. 1 acts unintentionally, is punishable by a fine or is punishable by restrictions on freedom. Paragraph 1 is He does not commit the offence of a criminal offence referred to in his mouth. 1 and 2 if he has committed this act in the framework of artistic or scientific activities. Art. 2 of this project amends the Law of 28 March 1933 on graves and war cemeteries consisting of the possibility of applying for a special grant from the State budget to finance tasks related to the care of graves and war cemeteries. The project defines the scope of the subsidy for specific activities related to the search, construction, renovation, transfer and maintenance of war graves and cemeteries. The grant may be granted up to 50% of the expenditure necessary for the performance of the tasks and, due to the state of preservation of the grave and the war cemetery, the grant may be granted up to 100% the necessary expenditure. The grant shall be granted by the Minister of Culture and National Heritage after consulting the voivode. Art. 3 is an amendment of the Law of 21 November 1996 on museums defining the method of granting to natural, legal and non-legal persons of a medal The Commission of Justice introduced amendments of a technical and legislative nature in the title and text of the draft law and 13 votes in favour, 1 against adopted the text of the draft law in the print version No 993. High Seym! I owe you one more important piece of information about the legal situation. On 21 October 2017, this legal status changed as the Act of 22 June 2017 amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian regime by the names of buildings, objects and public utility facilities entered into force. That is the whole of the text of the article. 5 of this draft law was published in the Act of 22 June 2017, so the provisions which are the subject of second reading are already applicable in the field of Article. 5. It is therefore necessary to adopt an amendment deleting Article. 5 and the removal from the bill of the passage concerning the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism. The Commission calls for the support of this parliamentary draft. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u475	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. I will be the first to ask Mr Krzysztof Lipc from Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u476	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to share with you the reflection on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in the context of the two draft laws submitted, which the committee has already presented in the form of a report as a single bill. This mainly concerns the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. The rapporteur was very careful about the subject of the amendment. I will pay particular attention to a few points. The government submission concerned primarily matters related to the protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland, in the context of the imputation of German crimes committed during World War II to the Polish State. It so happens that unfortunately there are situations in the modern world that crimes committed by the Germans are attributed to the Polish people. In fact, there have been no good legal regulations so far, which is why the government's submission amends the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance in such a way that it penalizes such acts, but also gives the possibility to bring civil actions. Civil proceedings may be brought by institutions, NGOs, which have such activities in their statutes, but such a civil suit may also be filed by the Institute of National Remembrance. The claims that have been settled for this purpose are claims that are held by the Treasury. A good solution in all this is also the question of criminal law, which results in the fact that for this type of action people, institutions who attribute crimes, crimes committed by the Germans during World War II, are responsible for this kind of action, which can also be classified as a prison sentence. Another important amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance is due to the submission of a message. This is a thing that defines crimes committed by Ukrainian nationalists or people associated with the formations collaborating with the Third Reich, it is the citizens of Ukraine. This crime has been defined in this submission and will be recorded in the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. The point is that the catalogue of activities of the Institute of National Remembrance is being extended to include the issue of crimes committed by Ukrainian nationalists or Ukrainian citizens related to the formations collaborating with the Third Reich. It is primarily about crimes committed in Volyn, in the area of Eastern Małopolska by Ukrainian gangs. These are things that have sounded a lot lately. Until now, the Polish State had no legal instrument that would cover the protection of citizens who lived in the Second Republic of Poland. Various theories have been described about these crimes, very often falsified in historical terms, and for this reason no criminal responsibility has been assumed. On behalf of the parliamentary club, I would like to table an amendment to the report proposed by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. It concerns the regulation of certain issues. This is a regulation which is connected with the entry into force of the Act amending the Law on the Prohibition of the Promotion of Communism or other totalitarian system. Such a decision was proposed in the Commission's submission in Article. 5. Since such regulation has already entered into force, it is a common law, we propose to delete the article. 5 of this submission, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which will also result in a change in the title of the law proposed in the report. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, by making this amendment, I request the support of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u477	Mr Marcin Święcicki will perform on behalf of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u478	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill is a combination of various things from various, you can say, parishes. There are things in it that are completely uncontroversial, e.g. the possibility of obtaining grants for the care of graves and military cemeteries, the regulation of the medal of the National Remembrance Site, but already in other cases things start more, I would say, debatable. One of them concerns the Ukrainian issue. Namely, my previous speaker was polite to say that there is no way to investigate these Ukrainian crimes. There are new entries for IPN tasks here. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the current records of the IPN, it says that the IPN deals with Nazi, communist and other crimes that constitute crimes against peace, humanity or war crimes. As part of these other crimes, he is also involved in the crime, the Volyn massacre. [[Voice from the room: Genocide.]] Genocide, yes. The prosecutors are investigating, e.g. 32 investigations into the perpetrators of the Volyn slaughter in which they apply the qualification: genocide. There is a special portal in Polish, Ukrainian and English concerning the slaughter or the Volyn crime, that is what this portal is called. There are a lot of publications in this case. There are 400 statements collected from witnesses of the Volyn crime. [[Art. 55?]] Therefore, there are no formal obstacles to IPN's conduct of research, investigations, investigations, educational actions and the collection of information concerning the Volyn slaughter. [[Voices from the room: Genocide.]] Like I said, the portal is called the Volyn crime. I'm talking about the name that IPN uses on its official website. [[Voice from the room: Don't be stubborn.]] Genocide appears there when it comes to qualifying crimes by prosecutors. [[Voice from the room: From start to finish.]] From a formal point of view, this is unnecessary. On the other hand, it is, as I understand it, a question of hitting the Ukrainians harder. I'll say one more interesting thing. Nazi crimes are not spoken of as Nazi Germans, but as Nazis. [[Voice from the room: And this is a mistake. That should change.]] Communist crimes are not said to be Polish Communists, Soviet Communists or any other, but Ukrainians are said seven times... [[Voice from the room: It should be too.]] ...Ukrainian, Ukrainian, Ukrainian, Ukrainian, Ukrainian, Ukrainian, Ukrainian. It seems that this is deliberately done to irritate the Ukrainian side, because it could be written differently. The second issue concerns the response to the famous Polish death camps. These possibilities of Polish response to all crimes attributed to Poles, which they have not committed, exaggeration of our role, if they have committed something, etc., are extended to the possibility of punishment and punishment of up to 3 years in prison. You can argue with that, you can agree with that. Let's see how the practice works. There's another article that Minister Jak hasn't read. He always talked about Polish death camps, but he did not read the article. 53o, where nothing is said about fascist crimes, about some death camps attributed to Poland. The point is that someone can bring a case for the protection of the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation. It's about every case. When there are Polish jokes, Polish jokes in America, if someone else writes something, like. Prime Minister Morawiecki will write in the foreign press, distribute foreign materials to journalists, give an interview that Polish courts are corrupt, that there is nepotism, that there are communist agents there, etc., that is such a bad saying... [[A voice from the hall: And it will be true.]] ...with a good name of the Republic of Poland can meet the reaction of non-governmental organizations... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...who will make accusations against Prime Minister Morawiecki that he harms the good name of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Sophistics.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are launching the fact that any organizations that have registered protection of the good name of Poland, e.g. some pride and independence that we were talking about here today... [[Voice from the room: Pride and Modernity.]] [[Or seven Euro MPs of the Platform.]] ... Pride and Modernity, ONR, Outrageous Movement, will begin to occur e.g. against the Prime Minister, against the President, because they think they have harmed the good name of Poland. Do you realize that such records open up Pandora's box? There's no telling what the consequences could be. Quite unexpected, Minister. [[You've already opened it.]] On behalf of the Civic Platform, I am placing an amendment to this bill on your hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u479	On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, Mr Tomasz Romankowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u480	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, I have the honour to present my position on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. There's no way to start with polemics with the previous speaker. Comrade Święcicki noted the introduction as regards the tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance, a provision for the article. Another, third task, which is to prosecute and investigate crimes committed by Ukrainian nationalists and Ukrainian formations collaborating with the Third Reich, see SS Galizien. Soon he will be in Ukraine, I suspect, worth the honorary welcome of all foreign delegations. Today, when there was a heated discussion about Nazism in this House, Mr Święcicki says that we absolutely should not include in the tasks of the Institute of National Remembrance the task of prosecuting and investigating crimes committed by Ukrainian Nazis, because that is what should be called a bandit by name. [[Applause]] [[Oh, no, no, no.]] The Member has forgotten, in a moment he will enter into polemics, we have an article. 55th National Remembrance Institute Act... [[What's this?]] [[Voice from the hall: Is that an insult? Is that an insult?]] ...which makes it clear that in a situation where someone is questioning the crimes of the catalogue mentioned in the article. 1, is punishable by imprisonment [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] freedom up to 3 years old. [[Voice from the room: 40 years.]] We have the situation of the Union of Ukrainians in Poland, who spend for public money a periodical in which they write that Stefan Bandera was a great man, a hero and should not be called a terrorist, because a terrorist should also be called Józef Piłsudski. We have Ukrainian organizations that walk with red and black flags in Poland. We have a lot of Ukrainian students, we are glad that they come to Poland and learn at Polish universities, but they not so much show symbolism, but rather persecute these Ukrainians on Polish soil because they do not accept this neo-Nazi narrative, this Bander narrative. This must be changed, because it is not just a matter of targeting specific IPN tasks. Unfortunately, I must say to you that the IPN does not have this task in its statutes, e.g. organized a rally in Lublin in the tracks of UPA battles for independent Ukraine. Unfortunately, there were several disgraceful scientific positions, which glorified the oppressors of the Polish nation from the mark of the OUN trizuba. Unfortunately, such scientific positions of the IPN, to which I have great respect, to the scientists who created it, and to the parliamentarians who appointed this very important institution of the Polish state, unfortunately such, I would say, brown cards are written. That's what this recipe is for, so that this doesn't happen. On the other hand, I will refer, due to a small amount of time, to the rest of the proposed changes, which I fully support, because this is a matter of protecting the dignity of the Polish people. We introduce mechanisms, not as the previous speaker said, which will cause some problems, no, eventually if someone spits on Poland abroad, they will meet with a sharp reaction of the Polish state. We give the instruments and the Polish state, and NGOs to care about the dignity of the Polish people. As for the Bander issues from today's courtyard, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there was a hearing before the District Court in Przemyśl and imagine that the Ukrainian defendant, due to physical aggression against the Polish citizen, broke his shirt with the inscription: "Wołyń - we remember!" and asked by the Polish court why he did it, said that he was not willing to attack his national hero, Stefan Bander. People have the audacity on the Polish soil to speak well about the oppressor of our nation. They have the nerve to lie. We have organizations, we have institutions that clearly lie about historical truth. I am very surprised that he was unable to say that genocide took place in Volyn. [[I've said it three times.]] No, you said crime. [[Applause]] You speak of the narration of the flagship lobbyists. I'm surprised you're not open... [[The Narration of the IPN.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u481	Mr President, I draw your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u482	Your Marshal, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the end of time, I would like to say that Kukiz15 supports the report submitted to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u483	Mr Paweł Kobyliński, Modern Club. [[But wait, I'll correct.]] I know you reported a corrigendum. When the speeches are over, you'll have time to make amends. [[Voice from the room: Too late.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u484	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, you may have to ask yourself what happened, that this particular project was in the freezer for a year and three months, apparently. This is strange and we should ask ourselves whether to adopt these two projects, i.e. Members of Parliament and government, it wasn't supposed to cover this Nazi debate today. The fact that the Polish Sejm did something and that the government reacted so immediately is very interesting. On the other hand, back to the substance of this law, one should consider... In my view, it goes in the right direction, of course, because we must always take care of the good name of Poland abroad, we must always take care of the historical truth, but I wonder how effective these mechanisms that we are talking about here will be, and I suppose we will probably also have to update this bill quite quickly, because as we are going to chase people or draw penalties from people who are shamefully talking about the Polish death camps. Unfortunately, this happens permanently: in some newspapers or in some statements to our nation, these shameful words are spoken. It's been over 70 years since World War II ended and since we've been dealing with genocide, crime, but in my opinion with genocide in Volyn. Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that it is always worth talking about it openly, it is always worth talking about how we see it from a Polish perspective. As I mentioned earlier, it seems that this bill will not fully fulfil what we want, because, ladies and gentlemen, as we are going to pursue someone in the United States when someone says something like this, or some diplomat says it, and such things have already happened. Please note that this may be the case. What are we gonna do then? Are we going to sue the Polish State? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Of course, we can do that, the question of how effective we are. The Polish Parliament should create laws refined and effective. Of course, we will see what amendments will be made. That should be considered. I'm going to recommend to my club that we vote for this bill, behind this set of laws. I hope they'll agree to that. On the other hand, I am really sceptical about their effectiveness. It seems, however, that this bill is underdeveloped. And it's a real shame that this bill, instead of being refined, has been in some freezer for over a year. In this connection, perhaps the rapporteur could explain why the parliamentary law had been frozen for more than a year. And why the laws are frozen at all. Perhaps you have some secret knowledge of why the opposition laws are frozen, not immediately. It's collated with this: we want, we don't want to. It'd be a man's decision, and that's how it's some kind of pit-pit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u485	Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u486	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of our club, I have the honour to present a position towards the parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and the Government bill amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance. After many years, it is time to Penalize Bander crimes and limit the spread of lies about genocide in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska, but also to permanently commemorate the martyrdom of more than 150 thousand. our compatriots, mostly villagers, who died at the hands of nationalists from the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization, the Ukrainian Insurgent Army and other nationalist formations operating on the lands of the Eastern Kresów II of the Republic of Poland in 1939 and 1946. It was genocide with special cruelty, genocidium atrox. The ways of suffering were shocking, and the exact number of victims of the genocide at that time is unknown. Many did not get a worthy burial and commemoration. Among the murdered beside Poles were also representatives of other national minorities, as well as Ukrainians who took the side of the victims. In fulfilling the will of the Kresowians and their descendants, who have been demanding the truth for decades, Members of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club introduced a draft law, I stress, a draft act on the establishment of the 11th July National Day of Remembrance of Poles - victims of genocide by the OUN-UPA in the Eastern Kreses of the Second Republic as a state holiday. It would be a powerful highlight of the rank of the day, which is a symbol of the martyrdom of our compatriots in the Eastern Ends of the Second Republic. Unfortunately, for the time being, this project is kept in the freezer, and today's debate - one can get the impression - is an attempt to cover uncomfortable phenomena of Nazism in Poland. Today's Ukrainian state is unparalleled in its policy of glorifying the perpetrators of genocide in the Second Republic of Poland, and the sources of national identity and heroism are viewed in criminal formations and ideologies of integral nationalism. This ideology dominates all spheres of society's life and threatens peace in this area of our Europe. There is no doubt that Poland and Ukraine have a difficult history together. Murders on tens of thousands of Polish children, women and men committed by criminals, hectolitres of innocent blood spilled by them still lay a grim shadow on the cooperation of our two nations and make it difficult. These tragic events, which they do not want to remember or did not have a chance to learn about young generations in Ukraine, are today being lied and used to build the identity of the country. The Apologists of the CNS, UPA, such as the head of the Ukrainian IPN, also known as the Ukrainian Goebbels, began a political struggle to suppress these crimes. [[Applause]] Another example is the ban on Polish IPN on the possibility of exhumation in Volyn. That is why it is important to say decisively and decisively today that this is not the case. For this reason, but also due to the fact that there are currently no laws in the Polish code of law that would criminalize public lies about genocide in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support both draft laws. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u487	Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, near Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u488	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We must not allow the truth to be forged about the crime of genocide that took place in Volhynia and East Małopolska. We do not agree to lie to historical facts about the extermination of the Polish, Jewish, Czech, Slovak, Armenian or Ukrainian population. Between February 1943 and 1944 mass murders committed on Poles by Ukrainian nationalists occurred. The summit of ethnic cleansing took place on 11 July 1943, when Ukrainian attackers attacked 100 villages in Volyn. Only from July to August of this year more than 20,000 died. Poles. They're facts. Currently, the Ukrainian State conducts a policy of glorifying the perpetrators of genocide in the Second Republic of Poland at all levels of education. This is also seen in other areas of social and public life. The whitening of the criminal activities of the Ukrainian Nationalist Organization and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army is one of the priorities of Ukrainian historical policy. The pantheon of the heroes of Ukraine was included the ideologist of nationalism and political leader of the CNS Stepan Bandera and direct commander of the genocide actions in Volyn and in East Małopolska Roman Shuchewycz. The Polish state must make this matter clear: the flagship and activities of the CNS or UPA must be treated equally in Poland with Hitlerism and Sovietism. Any form of commemoration of the characters of Bandera, Shuchevych or other genocides of the UPA must be considered equivalent to the glorifying of Hitler, Himmler, Hans Frank or Rudolf Hess. Any form of commemoration of UPA members must be treated in the same way as commemorating the criminals Dirlewanger and other genocide units of the SS. In the light of the Geneva Conventions, UPA members, as well as members of Dirlewanger's division, were not soldiers. Under these conventions, they do not have the right to any form of commemoration, including the right to a soldier's grave. This clear case must also be obvious to all visitors to Poland. Just as obvious, severe and inevitable must be sanctions in the case of any attempt to worship the Bandera, the Shuchevych, the CNS or the UPA. In public circulation, including abroad, terms such as the Polish death camps, the Polish extermination camps or the Polish concentration camps, which are contrary to historical truth, have negative effects, agreeing directly on the good name of the Republic of Poland and the Polish nation, and acting destructively on the image of Poland. They give the impression that the responsibility for the crimes committed by the Germans is borne by the Polish people and the Polish state. The experience so far shows that the steps taken to correct information that was not based on historical truth quickly and effectively were not effective, so it is necessary to create legal tools that allow the Polish authorities to pursue a consistent historical policy that counters the counterfeiting of history and protects the good name of the Republic of Poland. The amendments made to the Act are intended to give tools to the State so that it can effectively prevent the counterfeiting of historical facts. The current mechanisms for responding to the slander of Poland and Poles using only diplomatic instruments have proved ineffective. I believe that the introduction of the possibility of protecting Poland's good name on a criminal and civil road is necessary and justified. We must, we have the right and the duty to protect the Republic of Poland and the Polish people from slandering. The Free and Solidarni Circle supports both draft laws. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u489	On behalf of the Circle of Members of the Union of European Democrats, Mr Stefan Niesiołowski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u490	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Around the Union of European Democrats will not support this project. [[Voice from the room: Impossible.]] I imagine that such an appearance as just now and a few other speeches of geniuses, not even from Kukiz mainly, will ensure good relations between Poland and Ukraine. We just had an example - you, I forgot, it seems, Zwierzan, gave a manifesto of good relations, their improvement, excellent relations between Poland and Ukraine. I must congratulate the political mind. This anti-Ukrainian hysteria, which spilled out here, was predicted, perhaps intentionally planned, here is some element of rightness in this cover, it is written in the capital of one of the neighbouring countries. It makes such an impression as if it wasn't written in Warsaw at all. Something so idiotic as to talk to a brother Ukrainian nation, with the nation that Piłsudski spoke about, among other things, that there is no independent Poland without independent Ukraine, so that such a level of stupidity, bad will, ignorance should be presented, one must really be a political illiterate. One more thing - you have already left, sir, I forgot your name, Mr PiS. They were not Ukrainian citizens in the SS-Galizien, they were Polish citizens. It does not matter, of course, because crime is a crime, but it is mostly the former inhabitants of pre-war areas of the Republic of Poland. If you're already talking about the Ukrainian issue, you could get a little... there's literature, Siemashka I recommend, Prusa, you can read a little bit. It doesn't hurt, it doesn't cost anything. As for the very principle of this law - the law, actually - in principle, it is such a sentence... it is quite extensive and chaotic, because it actually combines two laws, and the whole of this case of some anti-Ukrainian madness, which every once in a while in this parliament is reviving, does not really fit with the rest. There is such a sentence: The strict diplomatic methods have proved to be not fully satisfactory for the fight against claims about Polish death camps, etc. Okay, but what do the authors propose, what do you propose, what do you want? If not diplomatic methods, what? Then why don't you write right away: we'll bring Mr. Gross to Poland, you'll send the commando, I understand, and you'll bring him back just like Eichmann. How? All this foreign passus... about you chasing authors of different texts that the PiS government doesn't like, abroad... And how are you gonna do that? There is also a second sentence here that Member States, I understand that the Union, are obliged to ensure criminality. And how do you ensure criminality? How? Is that what you're gonna do? There are various articles - there is a huge press market, different titles - in a large part they come from ignorance, but there is no such distinction, bad will, when someone writes like Irving, deliberately counterfeits and lies, and when someone is ignorant, something will break out of him, he doesn't understand, he apologizes - well, he doesn't understand it, the camp was lying in Poland. This needs to be separated. However, because this is different - someone has a permanent policy of falsifying history, as I say, and someone is simply showing some level of ignorance, incompetence. It's not the same. How would you like to enforce fines abroad, Mr. What kind of fines? There are problems in Poland. How do you want to carry out this... these are the records that are, of course, right in some points, already said this to Mr Święcicki, whom he insulted in a despicable way... I do not use, speaking of you, the words: the Roman provocator, and it was right. [[Roman.]] Roman, I'm sorry. I didn't say "A.D.A. of Rome," you know. But respect the others. [[I'm not the D.A....]] I told the provocator, no... Is he deaf? [[Speech outside the microphone]] Provocator, provocator. You behaved here not as a prosecutor, but as a provocator. And I didn't use that word. So, please use the terms. Mr Święcicki fought for democratic Poland, [[Joy in the Chamber]] And you, by the side of the PiS, are fighting for dictatorship. You are a PiS sucker who introduces dictatorship in Poland. One last sentence, Marshal. The Polish country... [[In KC he fought.]] And here I'm just going to strengthen it because it was said that there's a record that an action against slander can bring any non-governmental organization that has it in its statutes. I imagine an organization, like the Eagle Nest, so, yeah, it seems, it's called, it's gonna sue itself. [[Voice from the hall: Festival.]] You're asking for this kind of organization or I don't know what they're like, pride and independence, right? He's asking for it. [[Voice from the room: And modernity.]] So this is a very chaotic act, very bad in these fragments of anti-Ukrainian disgrace. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, this will not be supported by the European Union of Democrats. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u491	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Marcin Święcicki. [[What about me?]] In the correction mode, and the Member will be here in a moment. [[The voice from the hall: I'm supposed to do something, I mean, right?]] We'll see, sir. [[Voice from the room: It will straighten...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u492	I am replying to the Member. Well, if IPN is currently investigating, as they say on their portal: Volyn's crimes, a separate portal, collected 123 volumes of documentation, collected 400 people's relations, conducted 32 investigations into the crimes of Ukrainian nationalists on Polish citizens, who are qualified as crimes of genocide, then it is necessary to write to them seven times in their bill that they will deal with Ukrainian crimes, while the communist and Nazi crimes are spoken of in one word: communist crimes, Nazi crimes, and the Ukrainians are said seven times: Ukrainian? What's going on here? I don't think it's about an IPN being able to run that kind of research. And the second corrigendum. Well, sir, art. 55a says that contrary to the facts, the Polish nation and the Polish state are given responsibility for the Nazi crimes committed by the Third German Reich - and continues to go there - for other crimes... I'm not protesting that there will be three years, there will be fines. It's doubtful if it'll work. All those doubts were raised here. How are we going to go after President Obama because here too is for manslaughter, for such a statement, President Obama, who splashed something there and said Polish camps? How are we gonna chase somebody else, punish them with these fines? Is this a recipe? Just realistic? You have to fight with diplomatic means. This is done, not always effective, once effective, once less effective. But is this recipe gonna help? I don't even question him. However, if every organization that has written this concern for the good name of the Republic of Poland, such as this Pride and Modernity, like the Eagle Gnazdo, like the Outrageous.pl, like dozens of other organizations, how we will give them the right to sue anyone who starts some discussion about Poland, I do not know, will make a Polish joke, will criticize Poland or just like Prime Minister Morawiecki will say that Polish governments are corrupt, courts are corrupt, or President Duda, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who said that there is no justice in Poland, like any organization...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u493	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u494	... This is gonna be crazy... These organizations will be doing propaganda and gaining popularity by suing...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u495	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u496	...anyone who will start talking about Poland, who will speak. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u497	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Sanocki, a non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u498	It is a very good bill, and the fact that the words appear several times: Ukrainian, Ukrainian, Ukrainian, Ukrainian crimes, Mr. Member, it is a bit of a merit of your formation and you, because over the years you have blocked it and led some such - I will not say'strengthen', because'strusia' is even for a mild term - a policy towards Ukraine. I have a personal relationship with Ukraine, as my family comes from the Kresów, I help the Ukrainians. My grandfather and father were rescued by a Ukrainian neighbor. But I think it is absolutely unacceptable for us to tolerate the portraits of Bandera, the portraits of Shuchetych and the glorification of the criminals from UPA and the CNS. And we're doing it. We're not talking. We have engaged on Ukraine's side in conflict with Russia even more than Ukraine itself. Ukraine is selling Russian weapons, and we believe we are protesting against the alleged... They're doing business. So we, ladies and gentlemen, we... Friendship with the Ukrainian people as much as possible, but not with the patrons and not with those who glorify them, and not with those who somehow put us in such a position that we should be ashamed to tell about our victims, our loved ones, our neighbors, those people who died in terrible conditions in the East, were brutally murdered. And we're supposed to be silent. This is a sin that should call for vengeance to heaven when a Polish Sejm Member comes out and says that it will upset good relations. Who's he gonna mess with, with the neobanders? Then let him tease the neo-bangers. Ukraine is supposed to adapt. I can't imagine the situation that we're going to like. In Germany and Berlin, they saw the portraits of Himmler or Hitler. That'd be great. And this is the same situation. We're going there, and I see music school... I said I wouldn't go there anymore, because if I'm gonna go and listen to the Ukrainian kids' concert, and see the Bandana on the wall, that's it. It's just something offensive to our feelings, our honor. You absolutely have to go this way. Ba, we really need to revise the Polish Eastern policy. Because we got involved in this Ukraine because we defined it so that Russia is the biggest threat, or maybe it isn't. Or maybe we should loosen up the relationship a little bit, because we've just got ourselves into a channel. And then we're out of options because there's already an alleged threat here. Therefore, we in Ukraine give money and gas to sell, and everything. The best of our politicians must have been sent there by the Member to this party. Yes, thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u499	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join the list of questions you are asking? If not, I'm closing the list. [[Me too.]] The first question is asked by Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz.15 One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u500	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To ask a question, I brought two books. One is Gieroj UPA - a sotenna 'Burlaka' and the other is a book 'Stepan Bandera and I'. Where do you think, from which school? From Lviv, Kiev? No, from the Polish school in Bartoszyce. In these books, especially in this book, we have the praise of flagship, the praise of Bandera. The flag looks like a very benevolent man, bragging about the flag. But there is one very important element - it's about what the flagship should be guided by. Decalogue. Mr. Flies Professor, which is a little developed organism, I'm only going to read one passage because I don't have much time, and I'm going to show you what racist words are there. So the flagship is to be guided by such an indication: You will strive to expand the glory, wealth of the area of the Ukrainian state even by enslavement of foreigners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, how long will such books be in Polish schools? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u501	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u502	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Question for applicants. As I said, Mr President, during the performance of the club, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, in fulfilling the will of the stallions and their descendants, submitted a bill to establish in this form a national day of remembrance of Poles victims of genocide. Question for the applicant. [[I'm not an applicant. This is a government project.]] The question is to the applicants and to the Minister. Is it possible, at this stage of the legislative work, to introduce our bill to them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u503	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u504	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You can be a worm professor, and from historical knowledge you can be at the level of a zero. This is today's truth from our debate. If someone does not understand that genocide waiting 75 years for the truth - not half-truth, not quarter truth, not silence, but really - is not an anti-Ukrainian action, he has not even started the first grade of primary school yet. Foreign policy is about business and, at the same time, about building a future based on truth. Question: "Well, if the Germans attacked Poland, shouldn't we really have any relations with the Germans and the Germans with us, yes or no?" We act, we develop, this is our important partner, but we are based on the truth. The Germans invaded Poland. There was genocide on Volyn. This means that this is the beginning - the truth is the beginning that opens for the future. Let's get to it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u505	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u506	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Brief question: Why have we waited so long? Why was the Kukiz15 project frozen? Why have we delayed this debate, which is extremely important and these rules should be introduced as soon as possible? Question for Mr. Święcicki. You were surprised there were records of the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u507	The question cannot be addressed to the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u508	If it was on the Ukrainian side, then who do we have? Australians, Cambodians? I don't think so. It's important to be clear, to call things by name. And as for the Volyn slaughter you quoted, sir, the slaughter is a slaughter when a pig is slaughtered, and here was genocide, people are something else. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u509	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Grabowski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u510	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Are the arguments used in this debate, lying, manipulative, not the best evidence that this law is needed, that these solutions are needed? If we hear from Mr Niesiołowski that there were Poles in the SS Galizien. [[Voice from the room: Once.]] They were Ukrainians, and the fact that they formally had Polish citizenship... Does that mean they were Poles? No, they were Ukrainians. Ukrainians formed SS Galizien. We hear other lies that it wasn't genocide, it was slaughter. Isn't it time to start building our relationship on the truth? When we hear this manipulation, Mr Święcicki, you are about to leave, because it is manipulation when you try to convince, extrapolate Polish relations that we have something to maintain... If we have bad relations with neofascists, neo-banderers, then we have bad relationships with Ukrainians, normal people? Does that make sense to you? It's not logical. One last thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Oh, time's up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u511	Thank you very much. And Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u512	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am not about the Ukrainian part, but about the part that allows any organizations that have written down defending the good name of Poland, to bring lawsuits. There was a dispute about this at the committee meeting. I checked it out, I have here the opinion of a professor from an American university who states that there is no possibility in the United States of America to sue someone for insult or defamation of any groups. The defamation action exists only in the case of an image of a living individual. I have an opinion as to whether the entire article by Timothy Garton Ash, one of the most outstanding contemporary historians on the list of 100 most influential people, although he is no politician, is no businessman, he is only a professor of history... [[Don't make me laugh.]] ...at the University of Great Britain. And he says, "To teach, you have to study, explore, test, sow evidence, verify possible opposite interpretations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask: Would this recipe, Minister, harm research, as any organization will be able to act against anyone who writes something critical about the Polish government, about Polish institutions...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u513	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u514	...about the Polish people, with the lawsuit?
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u515	Thank you very much, sir. The questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Patrick Jak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u516	Dear Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I wanted to answer whether to admit something to the ladies and gentlemen. I mean, he's an MP. Niesiołowski exposed us. He exposed it because he said it was really about chasing, as he put it, what the PiS government didn't like. That's what I'm talking about. We've been exposed. We just don't like the fact that every other day in the press the term "Polish concentration camps" appears. The Member may have a different opinion, but our government does not like it, and we believe that this must be fought firmly. I understand that there are methods of a diplomatic nature, but as you can see, the statistics that NGOs run show that there are more and more such publications every year. Every other day, according to the calculations of non-governmental organizations, somewhere around the world the wordings of the Polish death camps, the Polish concentration camps, the Polish deathcamps or synonyms appear. And this is the situation from the point of view of the Polish state not so difficult to accept, but even improbable, given that Poland was the biggest victim of World War II. Not the executioner, the victim of World War II. If we compare the loss of the population to the whole nation, Poland lost the most citizens, destroyed, destroyed the capital and much of our country. It was difficult for Poland to rebuild what we lost in World War II. Therefore, such concepts, such terms are absolutely unacceptable. When we analysed the situation with non-governmental organisations who participated in various court proceedings to defame the Polish people, when we analysed the legal situation, we concluded that there was no such appeal in Polish law, such tough rules as could be invoked and in cases which would be criminal in nature and in cases which would be civil in nature. That is why we are creating a special provision which will also allow the Polish state, through e.g. IPN prosecutors, prosecute all those who will use the term Polish concentration camps. It is relatively easy to do this within the European Union, and I admit that it will be more difficult outside the European Union, but that does not mean that we should not try. So much for the criminal term. I'm gonna straighten it out right here, answer the question. This will not apply to scientific activities because the law contains lex specialis, that is, art. 55... [[Voice from the Chamber: 3.]] ...pt. Three, thank you. He does not commit the offence of a criminal offence referred to in his mouth. 1 and 2 - the one I mentioned - if he committed this act in artistic or scientific activities. That is why this argument is absolutely impossible. And that's when it comes to criminal liability. However, there is a second instrument that we write down in this law and which can be effective here, if we look at it, we would like to look at this transatlantic offensive, namely the possibility of civil combat. And it's not like we're rubbing new fields, because if we look at, for example. for how you fight for the historical truth of Israel, we will see that you often do so in civil matters just abroad through NGOs, supported in different ways by your country's institutions or government institutions. We want to use exactly those solutions that are known and that are effective, they also work where you say they don't work, and they work, for example. in the United States, if such activities occur. Therefore, we should ask ourselves: Should Poland have any complexes in relation to e.g. to the State of Israel and must it not be equipped with the same instruments as the State of Israel? Are we worse at something? Should we show our complexes? I don't think so. That's why this is happening. And even accepting the criticism of the critics of this bill that many of these things cannot be enforced, one might ask: What do we have to lose? I don't think anything worse's gonna happen. Therefore, I am convinced that this bill will equip the Polish state with additional instruments that will allow us to fight for the good name of our nation, and that any professional country that wants to conduct a subjective and sovereign foreign policy should have such instruments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u517	Thank you very much, Minister. A representative of the applicants, Mr Tomasz Romankowski, wanted to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u518	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I'm going to start with one fundamental issue. I categorically disagree on the sign of equality between the flags and the Ukrainians. That's not the way to do it. [[Applause]] For you, the flagship equals the Ukrainian. I can tell the difference between these two things. To me, it's extreme. This is what puts a shadow on our relationship and is financed, unlike what you claim, in my opinion, by our enemies and their nation. And I'd rather look for it in the East. As for the questions, there was a question about books. If this regulation comes into force, no one in a school financed by the state budget and even unfunded by the state budget will be able to sell and use such books for study. This will be absolutely forbidden. When it comes to building relationships, because here a lot was said about international relations - the law concerns our internal regulation. But, please, if we are demanding from the Ukrainian side that we do not place further monuments of Stefan Bandera, that further streets and squares in Kiev, in Lviv, in other cities of great Ukraine should not be called names of criminals, oppressors of the Polish nation, type Roman Shuchewycz, Konowalec, then let's start with each other. [[Voice from the room: Doncow.]] Let's start with each other. Doncov, a very good example. Let's start with each other. If we on Polish soil are unable to eradicate this sick, criminal ideology, through which life has lost in cruel, unimaginable circumstances over 160,000. citizens of the Second Republic of Poland... And they were not only Poles, because they were Jews, Armenians, Czechs, and also Ukrainians themselves, only because they did not agree to the ideological solutions of the flagship. Ukrainian, if he did not help murder his Polish, Jewish, Czech, Armenian neighbour, shared their fate, was brutally, unimaginablely murdered. As far as manipulation is concerned, because here you were talking about the SS formation, there are only two nations that were occupied by the Third Reich, in which this criminal organization was not created because it was named by the international community, there were no national divisions of the SS. It was a Polish nation and a Serbian nation. Only these two nations did not create the SS division. However, our eastern neighbours, unfortunately, lead first among other non-German-speaking nations in the creation of divisions. If we look at state celebrations, local government, if they are in Ukraine at all, then often, unfortunately, it can be said that every month or day more and more ceremonies are being robbed of is reconstructive groups dressed in Waffen-SS uniforms. It's shocking. It's shocking. I am surprised by your hypocrisy, because today you spoke about the great threat of Nazism in Poland, but Nazism in Ukraine does not disturb you. Do you think that with Nazi Ukraine, we'll be able to build a good relationship? We shouldn't get involved in this. We start with each other. We speak absolutely not for flagship on Polish soil. I hope that the Ukrainian side will finally see through, because if we want to build good international relations, then let's build them on the hardest foundation - on the truth. And Stefan Bandera himself was a citizen of the Second Republic - it is worth recalling that he was a citizen of the Second Republic - who was sentenced to death for the murder of the Minister of Interior of Pieracki. [[It's a life sentence.]] It was turned into a life sentence and then into a misfortune of the Second World War and hoped that together with the Germans, alongside the Third German Reich, a state created by the sick, criminal ideology, it would create a Ukrainian state. The big mistake of today's Ukraine and parts of the elite, fortunately only part of the elite, political, is appealing to this criminal ideology. If Ukraine is flagship, it will be effectively vaccinated for any integration into the Western world. Answer the question yourself: whose interest is it in Ukraine not to integrate with the world of the West? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u519	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on Parliamentary drafts of laws amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the revision of the Civil Code (Prints 2183, 2194 and 2206). I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u520	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on Parliamentary drafts of laws amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code, prints No. 2183 and 2194. There was a joint committee meeting yesterday. Both draft laws are very short, almost identical, with small differences, and relate to the extension of the Article. 32 Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code. Ultimately, the draft adopted by the committees is very similar, only with editorial amendments, to the one presented by Mr Paweł Lisiecki. The Commission proposes that this proposal be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u521	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u522	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice strongly supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u523	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u524	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft resolution, which was tabled by the committees, is in many points in line with the amendment I tabled at the committee meeting, which was rejected. On the other hand, the amendment differed in the fact that we added in the wording of the article. 32th sentence, which says that the municipality will belong only to a person, a tenant who has no legal title to any other establishment in the same municipality. The majority of the committee disagreed, although I think it was wrong, because the commune is a place that gives its residents who have difficulty meeting their housing needs. On the other hand, if someone has a lease agreement for another place in the same municipality, they do not need this assistance most of all. As we know, there are large queues in each municipality to these premises, which is why we proposed in our amendment to include a similar provision as in the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants in the case of a rental contract for a social establishment, where such a requirement is mandatory, because this could result in abuse by some tenants. As we know, e.g. In Gdansk such accidents happened. Therefore, of course, each municipality may adopt a resolution in which the same provision is made that it is necessary not to have any other lease agreement, but not all municipalities do. It seems that with so much demand for municipal premises, we should primarily help tenants who really need it, because these communal apartments are from our taxes, our municipalities. That is why we proposed that the writing of this article should be as it is, but that it should be added. We agreed with everything else, also with the provision on the retroactive operation of the law, so that there would be continuity, because - once again I wanted to emphasize what was said earlier - these records protect people who need to be accommodated, e.g. Because of the need to tear down the house for some kind of investment that needs to be secured. The point is that these communal premises can only be allocated to those who need it the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u525	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u526	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the case of the current project, Kukiz15 supports the work and we thank both clubs, Law and Justice and the Platform for meeting at one important point: the needs of citizens. It is a pity that we did not play it over time, because it would be better if today's discussion were a month before the end of 2017, but if it is necessary, it is in the interest of Poles, inhabitants of cities and municipalities actually in need of this support, here is this solidarity and one joint action, which, to the glory of everyone, can work. As for the detail that most often appeared in this committee discussion... Ladies and gentlemen, if in the municipality so-called. the rules are respected and implemented seriously, that is not the problem. Municipal housing is under certain conditions: for people with specific income, without property rights to any apartment, house, so, in short, those who really need it. I already know cases of many cities today - and this is not Warsaw - where the so-called. persons in municipal buildings who are already abusing this right to support from the municipality. Because it's backup. You can't mistake that. You can't say that a communal apartment is already my property. This is backup. For today, this support has been for 5 and 10 years, my housing situation will improve, my material situation, I will build a house, I will buy an apartment, and at this point this communal apartment will become an opportunity for another family. This healthy principle is already taken seriously in many municipalities today. And it's not about cleaning, it's about taking the principle of municipal housing honestly and honestly. The communal apartment is not a private apartment. This is a community residence, this is a community residence. Therefore, this discussion thread, the disputed one, would not exist if the communes were really really doing it, watching over it and, again, taking care of the interests of the community. Anyone who abuses this element: has a communal apartment and, by the way, owns an apartment in a cooperative or has set up a house... This is already an abuse of this and partly stealing from those really in need, because, as we know, today there is probably no city or commune that has excess municipal housing. I, as head of the Parliamentary Council Committee on Government Affairs, rather hear of shortcomings. If there are shortcomings, you have to have a rational policy in such a way that you do not harm the needy and at the same time do not allow for smartness. We support this project and will continue to debate it, hoping that we will adopt it quickly and implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u527	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u528	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the parliamentary drafts of the laws on amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing resources of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code. It's all 2183, 2194 and 2206. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been mentioned, the draft laws notified by the clubs aim to extend the period during which the municipality has a duty to ensure that the tenants have the right to a replacement and to cover the removal costs due to the need to renovate or tear down a building that needs to be emptied. In accordance with the applicable Article. 32 of this law only until the end of 2017 the municipalities had an obligation to provide the tenants with this premises and to cover the costs of removal. The projects provide for an extension of this period until 31 December 2019. Of course, it should be noted that this is a change that is absolutely necessary at this point, but it is a pity that during these 2 years - because I will remind you that we have been conducting a similar project, extending this period until 31 December 2017, in 2015 - the PiS government unfortunately failed to adopt some solution that would replace what we are extending today. I will remind you that in 2001, when the law was adopted, this period was strictly defined. We discussed this at the December 2015 meeting and the PiS government said that it would try to present a comprehensive solution to the High House that would meet the need to change this situation. Why am I talking about change? Well, we all know that the housing resources of the municipalities are limited. Municipalities have problems with premises for residents who need help, and in the implementation of this provision there are situations where this assistance is simply not needed. This was supposed to be the result of, among other things. This new, comprehensive regulation. However, I would expect the PiS government to accept this commitment, Minister, and in December 2019 the Sejm, even then a new term of office, will not seek to extend this term for another two years or worse in January 2020. It really seems that such solutions, which were to be transitional arrangements, should remain them, and if you expect the municipalities to carry out these obligations seriously and in accordance with the needs of the community, it would be appropriate to change this legal situation not at the last moment, but earlier to proceed with its re-regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u529	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski made his statement in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u530	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with my previous speaker that the municipalities are really having a lot of trouble securing municipalities for all those in need. I wanted to ask if the honourable representatives of the government are planning to compensate the municipalities in some way for the costs they have to bear due to the need to grant these apartments. Because it would be a great opportunity, which I was talking about, to verify whether really those people who have a lease, and now they have to. Because of the demolition, they are among those who are most in need in every municipality. Do you want to compensate the municipalities in any way? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u531	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u532	This bill, Minister, is a temporary act, and you have nothing to brag about. This is another provisional after the Local Government Income Act, when the state extended the solutions that you had previously criticised for the next years, and this is the case in this case - in the case of municipal and foster homes. I would therefore like to ask what measures you have provided for this solution to the local authorities, because they cannot be passed on to all public tasks carried out by the local authorities or put an additional burden on them. And I understand that you ran out of time because you were taking care of yourselves, not Poles. This is yet another example of the fact that the apartment+ is not working. There are no apartments for young people, no replacements and a law on the income of local government units - ad acta. You take such care of each other that you forget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] About people. Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u533	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, will answer the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u534	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the parliamentary and one and the other projects aim to prolong the existing state of affairs. [[That's the truth.]] In 2001, when the Act on the protection of tenants and the promotion of social construction entered into force, it was established that as compensation for the fact that the owners had a regulated rent for many years, for some period the State would provide replacement premises in a situation where the building needed renovation or demolition. It was then established that a certain period was in force until 2015. It can be said that this obligation, which rested on the municipalities, could have been waived because after 2001, the owners could have applied rent increases and very often had a rent corresponding to the market rent. However, the reality is that it is still not enough for these owners, who are often not wealthy, to be able to provide a replacement place, especially when it is. The decision to demolish the building and leave the building immediately. If we leave this obligation on the owners, there may be a legal dispute. Before the owner delivers this, there is a danger to the people who are staying in this building. The only guarantee that this person gets the place quickly is to leave this obligation to the municipality. This guarantees the rapid receipt of the premises, especially in situations that occur, that there is a decision to dismantle, is a threat to the lives of the inhabitants and then there is a dispute. This dispute would also arise in a situation - here the response to an amendment or an attempt to suggest that there might be an amendment that you spoke about in committee - when someone has a legal title for another place. There would also be litigation, or the title itself gives me the opportunity to live, for example. I may be entitled to a place, but another person in this place lives, and I have a court trial to deprive this person of the possibility of living, and I want to evict her, but I can't evict her, and on the other hand, I'd have to leave the place that I'm taking up so far. It is therefore very difficult to find an appropriate legal provision that would regulate all these situations of life in an appropriate way. [[But the commune doesn't have these apartments.]] That's why we leave the record as it is. On the other hand, I will reply here to the fact that nothing has been done. After all, in a moment we will be discussing a project, a major draft amendment to the Act on Social Construction Support and a revision of the Act on the Protection of Tenants, where we spend 6 billion, more than 6 billion, because almost 6300 million PLN, to support social construction, municipalities will receive up to 60% funding just for municipal construction, for social construction. After this period, we assume that all the problems related to municipal construction, with the shortcomings in this building, which are needed on the market to meet the needs of the municipality, will be eliminated. We should build out of these resources... But that's what we're about to talk about. So there's a solution. I think the High House, all the parliamentary clubs will support this solution, which I don't know, probably in half an hour, we'll be in this room talking. That will also be the exact answer to what you have been talking about, the solution to the problems we are talking about. So that I absolutely believe that if parliamentary clubs, if generally the High House through clubs expresses its support... I think it is very good that it is a two-year extension of this law. During this time, already this year, there will be provisions that should solve all the problems we are talking about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u535	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Uściński asked for the floor of the rapporteur of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u536	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, there were two projects in the committee and they differed mainly on two issues. In the Platform project it was written that art. 32, i.e. the one concerning the obligation for the municipality to provide the premises and to cover removal costs, would not apply to tenants who have a legal title to another premises. It was widely discussed on the committee. Finally, the committee decided that it wanted to maintain the independence of the municipalities in determining the rules on which municipal premises were rented. In the regulations which the municipalities adopt, most often there are records that the tenant may not have a title for another place, but if the municipality considers otherwise, it should remain the responsibility of the municipality. At the same time, I would like to thank both the Presidents, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government very warmly for the smooth conduct of the committee's deliberations. I thank the parliamentary clubs for their support for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u537	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u538	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the committee on parliamentary drafts of laws on amending the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code. According to the amended provision in the event of termination of the tenant's lease on the day preceding the date of entry into force of the Act, the rent regulated is to provide that tenant with a replacement and to cover the removal costs, until 31 December 2017, to the competent municipality. The amended provision concerns the termination of the lease of the premises, which needs to be emptied due to the need for demolition or renovation of the building. The project proposed an extension of 2 years, i.e. until 31 December 2019, the period during which the municipality is to provide a replacement and to cover removal costs. In addition, a reservation was added that this obligation would rest on the municipality only if the tenant did not have a legal title to another premises. The PSL Club will present its position in the voting block.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u539	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Commission's draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society (prints no. 2169 and 2175). I ask Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u540	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I would like to present a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society. On January 27, 1918, the Polish Geographic Society was founded in Warsaw as one of the first scientific organizations to be formed together with the rebirth of the Republic of Poland. Its founders were outstanding scholars, teachers, socialists and patriots. The organization of the Polish Geographic Society since 1918 was the Geographic Review, which is certainly widely known to you, and which since 1953. - and presently - is published by the Institute of Geography and Spatial Management of the Polish Academy of Sciences in Warsaw. The Society played an extremely important role in the territorial integration of Poland after the period of partitions. The development of geographers, especially Prof. Eugeniusz Romer, made it much easier to determine the borders of reborn Poland during the Paris Conference. I wanted to point out at this point that there were no maps or documents at that time that would allow these boundaries to be developed. It was thanks to our geographers that we managed to inventory all of this. After regaining independence, geographers began working on the effective development of the country and started a broad educational, patriotic and educational action to raise national and social awareness. The Society also operated in the years of World War II, although, of course, to a much smaller extent, and many of its members were killed by German and Soviet invaders. Then it actively joined the process of rebuilding the destroyed Poland, including the development of the so-called. Land of the Recovered. The geographers participated in the development of all concepts of land-use planning and changes in administrative division, in the diagnosis, forecasting of natural and socio-economic changes. Geographical Olympics for secondary school students have played an important educational role since 1974, which have so far been very successful. The measure of appreciation for Polish geography in the international arena was represented among others. the election of Prof. Stanisław Leszczycki as President of the International Geographical Union, which was held in 1968 and 1972. On the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the Polish Geographical Society the Polish Sejm expresses appreciation and respect for this scientific institution and the entire environment of Polish geographers. The great contribution of the society and its members to the construction of independent Poland, the knowledge and definition of the territory of the Polish state, the development of Polish science, as well as the process of shaping national identity, civic upbringing and the patriotic attitude of society, including many generations of young people, deserve special emphasis. 100 years ago, the geographical society was working well, today too. Now he also publishes magazines in English version. On behalf of the committee, I ask all of you to support this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u541	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u542	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the committee draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society. Of course, the relationship of the club Law and Justice to this draft resolution is very positive, we welcome it with great appreciation. As the rapporteur has already said, this is due to the great scientific achievements of Polish geographers as well as their commitment to independence. Moreover, in the case of Polish geographers, this scientific activity was associated with the pro-state and independence activities both during World War I and mainly during the Versailles meetings and the setting of borders of independent Poland, as well as with the enormous involvement of Polish geographers in activities not only scientific, but also - and maybe above all - independence in the period of World War II, in activities in Polish conspiracy, among others. in the ranks of the Home Army. As a result of this commitment to defend Polish independence, many Polish geographers were persecuted by German and Soviet invaders and many even murdered. In the year when we worship the century of regaining independence, it is especially worth recalling not only this scientific but also independent activity of one of the most outstanding Polish geographers Prof. Eugeniusz Romer, among others. Vice President of the International Geographic Union. He was the son of Edmund, the insurgent of January, and the brother of John, General of the Polish Army. It's the late '80s. In the 19th century, during the middle school period, he worked in the secret independence movement in Małopolska. In the years preceding World War I he was one of the leaders of the secret Youth Organization of Zarzewie or perhaps the patrons of this youth organization. For these young independence activists he gave a series of lectures, lectures, strengthening national awareness and awareness of the need to fight for independent Poland. He also became one of the leaders of the national and independence movement in recent years before World War I, from which the Polish Military Union, later the Secret Army of Poland and finally the Polish Shooting Teams emerged. And it was Eugeniusz Romer who was president of the Supreme Council of the Polish Shooting Teams in 1911 and 1913. However, it should be remembered that Polish Shooting Teams were the only Polish Legions of Józef Piłsudski who emerged from the Union of Action and Shooter. So that due to both the great scientific achievements of Polish geographers and their commitment to independence activities, as well as due to people such as Prof. Eugeniusz Romer, the Law and Justice Club fully supports the draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u543	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u544	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish Geographic Society was established on 27 January 1918, i.e. months before the final and official declaration of independence of the Polish state. The first membership declaration was signed by 47 people, among them geographers, economists, historians, sociologists, botanists, anthropologists. The principle of setting up the company was verified immediately, as it is among others. thanks to the development of the members of the company, the boundaries of the new Poland were defined. The basis for their determination during the Paris conference was the statistical-geographical Atlas prepared by Prof. Eugeniusz Romer, published in 1916. In the interwar period, in non-election Poland, the company, based on the diversity of professions of its members, worked for patriotic and educational education, aiming to raise the awareness of the national and social population, which over the last 150 years had limited contact with Polish language and culture. The Society carried out educational activities that also integrate in the sphere of national membership. It also led to the harmonisation of the geographical nomenclature so different after the partition period. The Polish Geographic Society has done a great deal of work to bring tangible results in the sphere of the economy of the newly created country. It examined the different regions in terms of physical-geographical and socio-economic characteristics. The results of their research were later used for economic decisions. From our contemporary point of view, these actions cannot be denied the amount of romance and some kind of precursor. Citizens' and Socialist Tradition The company was aware of itself during difficult years of Polishization of Pomerania, fighting for the rights of Poles in Gdańsk and Silesia. The civilist and patriotic imperative survived among the members of the society also during the Second World War, when among others. from the first days of the war they were exposed to persecution in organized actions to destroy Polish intelligence. The Society worked in the underground, and many of its members: teachers and academics, learned on secret sets, including concentration camps, prisoners' camps and lagras. The Polish Geographic Society joined the underground in a more formal way, among others. through polemic studies published in underground publications of the National Army. It also contributed to the work preparing the Polish position on changes in state borders after the end of the war. In post-war Poland the geographical society took on many tasks, among others. The development of the concept of state spatial development took part in the work to create a new administrative division of the country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, 2018 is the year of the 100th anniversary of the founding of the company. Many scientific institutions participated in the anniversary celebration, and the company prepared a series of jubilee conferences on this occasion. This draft resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society aims to express appreciation and respect for the achievements of the Polish Geographic Society and the entire geographical environment, with particular emphasis on the contribution of the company and all its members...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u545	Step to the end, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u546	...in the construction of independent Poland and the development of science. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u547	Thank you very much. The Kukiz Club15 made a written statement, including the Modern Club, as well as the Polish People's Party. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u548	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the committee's report on the committee's draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society. The Polish Geographic Society played an extraordinary role in the territorial integration of our country after the partition period. The geographers, after regaining independence, began work on the development of their homeland, as well as extensive education in the spirit of patriotism. The actions taken by the company today need to be appreciated. It was their geographers who contributed to the determination of the borders of the Polish state. Their educational activities influenced the formation of national identity, as well as patriotic attitudes among young people. Previously, during the partitions, it was not possible to have a national scientific organization on Polish lands. Only after the end of the First World War did conditions arise for this and the geographers began work on harmonising the geographical nomenclature in the territory of the reborn Polish state, which during the partitions was varied. After the attack of Germany and Russia on Poland in 1939, members of the company fought against the invader not only in the field of battles, but also in the scientific field. Publications of articles were carried out through a conspiracy publishing house, among others. National Army. They participated in secret teaching in conspiracy schools and universities, and even in extreme conditions, concentration camps. Manifesting his attitude as a geographer - a Pole of many social activists paid with their lives. After World War II, members of the organization actively participated in the reconstruction of destroyed Poland and the development of Recovered Lands. In changed, adverse conditions they participated in the development of the concept of spatial development. The Polish Geographic Society was and remains a scientific association with strong civil and social traditions. One of the activities of the Society is the building and shaping of the public's geographical awareness. Therefore, geographical Olympics for secondary school pupils have been organised since 1974. We should respect the members of the company and appreciate their commitment to the reconstruction of independent Poland. About Free and Solidarni will support the draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u549	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask a question? If not, I'm closing the list. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, please, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u550	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, With great interest, I think, is accepted, with great applause this initiative concerning the adoption of a resolution for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society. And it so happens that we inaugurated the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, which also includes representatives and founders of the Polish Geographic Society. There are no representatives of the government, and therefore I ask the rapporteur and, if he analyses it, also to your marshal, but also to the government to take action so that the Polish Geographic Society not only by a resolution itself, which is symbolic, honor as an institution, an association which has worked for 100 years and has a great contribution to regaining Polishness. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I wanted to ask if the government would analyse this, what measures and what actions will be taken outside this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u551	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u552	And, Commissioner, don't you think that it would also be appropriate to include such measures...
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u553	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u554	...just on the 100th anniversary of independence.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u555	Thank you very much. The rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u556	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Indeed, I think that we should be actively involved in these celebrations. I agree with the opinion, and as rapporteur, I have also made it clear that this is an exceptional association, and it is not enough just to adopt a resolution, it is also necessary to support and to be actively involved in the celebrations. I will therefore pass on to you the question of the budget and possible resources - how much is the government possibly planning to allocate to these celebrations. I will pass on this question to the Ministry Minister and I hope that you will receive an answer in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u557	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u558	The Parliamentary Club of PSL supports the draft resolution submitted and will vote in favour of its adoption. The Polish Geographic Society was established in the year of regaining independence by Poland. Its scientists made an important contribution to the rapid reconstruction of the country by drawing up maps harmonising and integrating the country's territory formed from territories previously belonging to three separate countries. At the time of the partitions Polish geographers conducted recognized research all over the world, thus contributing to the existence of Polish scientific thought despite the formal lack of state. It is enough to mention Paweł Strzelecki, an Australian researcher, Henryk Arctowski, an Antarctic researcher, Benedict Dybowski and Alexander Chekanowski, an Asian researcher. In commemorating the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society, we express great respect for outstanding scientists who built the social capital of Poland and trained staff, without whom the rebirth of the country in 2018 would be much more difficult. At the same time we declare our support for similar resolutions, whose intention will be to highlight the role of Polish science in the development of the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u559	On behalf of the Poselski Club I present the position of the club in relation to the committee's report on the committee's draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society. In 2018 we celebrate the 100th anniversary of Poland's regaining independence. It is an excellent opportunity to honor people and organizations who owe us freedom and the development of an independent homeland. Undoubtedly, the Polish Geographic Society founded on the initiative of professors of Jagiellonian and Warsaw University in Warsaw in January 2018 fits perfectly into the anniversary of regaining independence. The Society played an important role in the integration of Poland after the period of partitions, as well as in the development of our country. After the Second World War, it became part of the process of rebuilding the destroyed Poland. KP Modern expresses its support for the resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society, which deserved its country well.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a statement on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Geographic Society, a scientific organization founded as one of the first in the reborn Republic. The enormous work of Polish geographers, especially Prof. Eugeniusz Romer, facilitated the determination of the borders of reborn Poland during the Paris conference. During the interwar period, there were eight conventions organized by the company. The conventions played an important role in the creation of theoretical and methodological basis for geography, as well as a forum for exchange of experience and information on research conducted by individual academic centres. Part of each convention was devoted to the problems of school geography, and the meetings in this part of the reunions were accompanied by demonstration lessons of geography conducted by outstanding geography professors. In the late '80s. The Polish Geographic Society suffered a financial and human breakdown. The end of the 1990s improved the situation, the number of members increased and the financial situation stabilised. The importance of research activities, most commonly undertaken together with other actors, has increased. The Polish Geographic Society has been an organization of public benefit since 2006. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiz Club15, appreciating the contribution to the scientific and social life of the Polish Geographic Society, fully supports the resolution presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u561	We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for homeless people, the Act on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws (print No. 2192). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u562	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Draft law adopted by the Council of Ministers on 28 December Ub. It is part of the National Housing Programme, which was adopted in 2016. This is print 2192 - a draft law amending the law, which your marshal has already stated in detail, so I will not repeat it. The changes contained in the project concern the rules for assisting local authorities in the creation of housing stock for rent and the rules for the management of the housing stock of the municipality. Within the scope of the Financial Support Act, it is planned to make available to municipal authorities for part of the cost of building apartments for rent, including municipal and protected housing, and for the creation of so-called. intervention stock - these are heating houses, shelters, accommodation units, temporary premises - total amounts of more than PLN 6 billion. This amount corresponds to the identified housing deficits for rent. It is planned that there will be about 170 thousand. new municipal housing. The financial support for municipalities is between 30 and 55% of the costs of the project. An important solution is to increase, from 30 to 50% of the costs of the project, the financing of the purchase of former works flats with the possibility of later selling them to the tenants with a bonus. Here we exclude the withdrawal period, which is valid for this type of co-financing. In that case, he won't be there. It is also important to allow for simultaneous financing of the same projects from the European Union and support under the revised provisions of the Act. In addition, a new financial housing support facility was made available to the municipalities - a non-refundable grant from the Fund of 20% of the costs of the project, whereby an investor other than the municipality will build housing for people who are not eligible for the municipal premises from the housing stock of the municipality, but still need support to meet their housing needs due to the level of their income. There, the rent reduction is up to 4% of the replacement rate per year. The law on the protection of tenants' rights was introduced, among others. the possibility for the municipality to verify the income of the tenants of the housing stock and the corresponding rent increase. This will apply to a situation where the tenant achieves income exceeding the income thresholds set by the municipality. This principle applies only to new contracts concluded after the entry into force of the amended law. It was also possible to terminate the lease contract when the tenant has a legal title to another premises not only in the same but also in a nearby village. Here is an instrument for self-government to determine the issue of this nearby village, because there are different geographical conditions, population conditions, etc. In various areas of Poland this is different, so local governments have their own competence in this area. For persons applying for a tenant from a municipality, a declaration on the amount of household income, a statement on the assets and, at the request of the municipality, a declaration on the absence of a legal title to another establishment located in the same or nearby village under criminal liability is required. The social rent of the apartments has been introduced. The municipality will be able to rent or sublet any premises that comply with the statutory requirements, which should significantly improve the situation or reduce the scale of problems related to the shortage of such premises. So the commune... So we eliminate the so-called. Social resources, we're just building a community resource. The municipality will also be provided with an instrument allowing tenants who occupy very large premises to convert these premises into smaller, more appropriate, with lower charges. And this is also the responsibility of the municipality, i.e. Councils of the municipality. The project eliminates the eviction on the pavement. Persons who have a temporary space may not be evicted to the accommodation unit, but to the temporary room provided by the municipality. Here, too, we introduce new instruments so that such temporary rooms can be adapted or built. The municipalities are also given the opportunity to renovate old municipal resources. So far, funding has only been available for new premises. Such premises, which were eliminated from circulation, which means they could not be inhabited because of the technical condition... At the moment, the municipality will be provided with funds so that it can also renovate such premises and make them available as social premises. We would like the bill to come in on 1 March. Probably a slight shift will be linked to the legislative process. However, I hope that the High House will quickly and efficiently carry out this project throughout the legislative process and that basic provisions will be implemented as soon as possible, i.e. on 1 March. On the other hand, some of the rules will come in late so that the municipalities can prepare properly, and the tenants of the apartments, and those of the existing ones, and those of the new ones that will be occupied, can learn the new rules. I think that these are long-awaited by local authorities, but also by TBS solutions that will allow for a decisive increase in the number of apartments for social rentals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u563	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzonec, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u564	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice strongly supports Draft Law 2192 for a very simple reason - because it is one of the elements of the National Housing Programme. It's worth mentioning. The main objective of the project is to improve the availability of housing for people who are not wealthy. You are all aware that this project is also worth supporting. The Minister spoke about PLN 6 billion, which will be used in the years 2019 and 2025, to make it available to local authorities. This money will cover part of the cost of building apartments for rent, including the rental of municipal and protected apartments, for the creation of an intervention stock, i.e. heating rooms, shelters, accommodation units, temporary premises. A very important record - 6 billion PLN for these purposes. An important solution is to increase, from 30% to 50% of the costs of the project, the financing of the purchase of former works flats. That's the problem that's gonna be solved with this project. It is also important to allow for simultaneous financing of the same projects from the European Union and to support them on the basis of a revised law. A new financial instrument will be made available to the municipalities, which was mentioned by the Minister: a grant from the Dollar Fund. It's a very important thing to emphasize. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the municipality has been able to verify the income of tenants. This is a very important issue. Mrs Chmiel agrees with me? [[Right. The Member knows perfectly well.]] Thank you very much. Thank you so much for... I can always count on the Member in these matters. [[Not always.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law also allows for the termination of the lease agreement when the tenant has a legal title to another premises not only in the same village but also in a nearby village. That's what we're paying attention to, too. This is a very interesting record, a very important record. We need to verify these stories, because some people wait years for an apartment, and some hide that they have this possibility of living in a nearby village. For applicants for a tenant from a municipality, a declaration on the level of household income was introduced. None of you will question this, I am convinced, because this declaration is very, very, very important. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also records here that say that the municipality will be given an instrument that allows tenants who occupy very large premises to convert these large premises into smaller ones. Reasonable, reasonable, logical. What's there to talk about? Ladies and gentlemen, the project eliminates evictions on the pavement. That's always been a problem. We will stick very closely and carefully to this so that there is no such situation that in the 21st century there is an eviction on the pavement. We can't let that happen. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I strongly support the request that this project be dealt with in committee. I invite you from the Committee on Infrastructure to tomorrow's committee meeting. I will immediately announce that I will ask for a subcommittee and I will propose that we proceed immediately to the debate - I think that President Maciejewski will support me in this too - so that we will quickly set up a subcommittee to deal with this thick, important project. Thank you very much, Minister, for this project and I would like to ask your Members for work at a later legislative stage. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this solution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u565	Thank you very much. Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u566	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I present the position concerning print No. 2192, the draft law amending the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of Civil Code and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! I will present reservations which are to this law, because about what is good, the previous speakers have already said here, but there are also many substantive and legislative reservations. First of all, the amendment of the 2006 Act on financial support for the creation of social housing is longer than the mother law itself. Each article is updated, including the title of the Act, where the register of social premises disappears, and instead there is a record of residential premises for rent. It's not quite the same. The law should be rewritten and not amended for legislative reasons. Secondly, the amendment introduces an unrealistic deadline for implementing the law, i.e. 1 March 2018, which is not possible due to the legislative procedure. Thirdly, many provisions and references are inadequate because the legislator delegates tasks to the Minister responsible for construction, planning and spatial planning and housing, and, as we know, there is no such minister today, and the law adopted is actually adopted in express mode - a law on amending the Government Administration Departments Act breaks up the Ministry of Construction through absurd divisions, even by giving spatial planning and architecture to the Minister of Culture. Fourthly, it should be stressed that the Committee for the Defence of the Rights of Tenants, as a social factor, has many reservations about the part concerning the rental of social premises. Until now, there has been an unlimited form of lease agreement and the Committee believes that such a form should be retained because of the beneficial importance for the stability and development of families benefiting from this support. Fifthly, the NSZZ National Commission notes that the project lacks solutions to protect the elderly and infirm in the event of termination of the lease agreement or the offer of other premises. Sixthly, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights has identified a number of doubts as to its compatibility with the Constitution. After seven, many social factors in the opinions on the project note that the vast majority of legislation introduces adverse solutions from the perspective of tenants of the housing stock of the municipality. It's all there to discuss. How do these opinions fit into the project? This is about social housing, which will already function as social housing for rent. Turning to the issue of financing by the Housing Payment Fund for rent with moderate rents, which is included in the Social Housing Act, I would like to quote the recent statement by Minister Adamczyk, who is no longer in fact responsible for the housing+ programme. Well, Minister in mid-December Ub. r. said at the National Stadium that actually it is not necessary to own the apartment, that the apartment can be rented and you need to get used to it. I wonder if the Minister owns the apartment or rents it. And is this a new paradigm: don't own the land, the apartment, or the authority that assigns you or doesn't? In Poland, citizens definitely prefer to own apartments rather than rent them and such government activities, aiming to have their own homes, as far as possible, by all citizens, should be undertaken. This was the idea of family programmes on their own, as well as living for young people. These programs are no longer available, and there are no apartments+s yet. National Property Resources, consisting of the areas of the State Treasury where premises may be established, has also been set up to implement the scheme. There may also be cases where the municipality acquires land from a natural person, because the law contains exceptions to the rule. The case of a desire to acquire a private plot in Tyniec Mały pod Wrocław by BGK Real Estate SA was widely described in the local press. Despite the fact that the municipality did not declare its intention to build under the scheme, it was chosen - it is not known - on what basis - to create apartments under the scheme on land property belonging to a natural person and not to the Treasury. I would like to point out that these are the most expensive land in Wroclaw and the district of Wroclaw. I ask, then, whether this is how the scheme will be implemented, which is part of this government project. In conclusion, I would like to say that the law called the amendment is a whole new law that introduces new rules for the rental of social housing, introduces funding to apartments with limited rents, makes a lot of fuss. We don't know if there's gonna be an apartment coming from this fuss. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform, I request that the project be sent to the Infrastructure Commission in order to further process the bill and clearly define the purpose of its implementation and the expected effects of the action taking into account the costs of its implementation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u567	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u568	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present on behalf of Kukiz15 a position on printing 2192. High Izbo! Minister! We can here, as the Member of the Civic Platform has said, have different doubts, have different opinions, but one thing needs to be said and given honestly to you as this ministry, which has prepared that this printing is solidly prepared. It is rare for us in our parliament to have prints with attached implementing acts, after public consultation, where there are opinions, where there are various points at issue. To put it brutally, you can work on it, you can already work on it. You may have a different opinion, you may have doubts, but that's already a topic for discussion. We have seen many times in our parliament in the last two years the laws that did not have this character were just such a freakish lip. I'm sure you can see one thing: it's not a project one day. This is a project. after a few weeks of hard work for the team and social environments. That's the plus. So that bows to the ministry team, especially since I have already seen several of your projects and they are always characterized by this quality, for which I thank you. As for the specifics. We're bringing up a case that we talked about literally 15 minutes ago, half an hour earlier. In fact, we are now going back to what was discussed. It's about this point of dispute in the property laws of the tenant. And here it turns out that actually the government side and the Civic Platform speak in one sentence, in one word. Social housing is meant to be for those in need. These criteria are important. At the same time, it is also important to stress here, and it is interesting that the state, that the government side is talking about averages, about people who are not suitable for these social premises, and at the same time they cannot afford this property to the end, 100% property in case of building a house or a loan for an apartment, they need something indirect. This is very important. There's a lot of mediocre people here. It's especially about this start-up in the case of young marriages, early marriages, when they start making their first money, there's the first child, and that money to invest in their own M, they don't have it yet. This is an important element that we are going towards young people, young people on the acquis, with the possibility, the developmental trend, and at the same time we do not have such an element of bringing everyone into society. In social work, working with environments is the principle of leaving rather than maintaining. So that there is also an important social element here, that we want to develop society, not to oppress or even concrete this environment in social premises. Social homes aren't anyone's dream. They should be a platform or a plane of reflection in life, not staying there forever. To put it this way, I would like to say that Kukiz15 will support this project because it is a topic for discussion. Without a doubt, the subcommittee is important at this stage. When the budget schedule is analysed, the start will actually be, ladies and gentlemen, not on 1 March, and in 2019 when the range is already appropriate. But you can see a logical sense in this runaway and in the chronological system. In fact, 2 years or 2.5 years are available for the start-up of this programme, and proper consumption will be for the next 3, 4 years, until 2025. So, ladies and gentlemen, there's an idea, there's a subject for work. We can argue, but let's do something for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u569	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elisabeth Stępień, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u570	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am very pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club Modern about the government draft law amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for homeless people, the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws, print no. 2192. I'm gonna try to score that bill, too. There wasn't much time. I'll start with the financial aspect of the bill. In fact, funding is planned here at an extremely high level. I was asked whether the municipality's budget could bear the burden of these planned actions contained in the project and what the consequences of such a law would be. Additional tools are also introduced for the self-government to verify the tenant's property situation. In the case of persons who have another premises nearby, this is a condition for termination of the lease agreement. Support or assistance is also assumed at the beginning of the tenant, and then, when it has a higher income, it pays a higher rent. And this is where my colleagues mentioned many aspects, including the Minister. I'm just wondering if these are constitutional records. The Act is horizontal and long-term. This also applies to housing, which is part of social policy and is a really important part of social policy, which is based on the responsibility of the tenants, because on the one hand it is based on the ease of acquiring the housing stock, and on the other it is the responsibility of the tenants, not only material. This is where responsibility arises in the formation of awareness, i.e. the aim should be to raise awareness of the beneficiaries and wide dissemination of the sense of responsibility. The economic aspect - I see here a lack of confidence in entrepreneurs or economic activity - is greater openness to what is public. Is that the right direction? I don't quite agree with that. It would be good to make it easier for private parties to cooperate in this law, and here I see such a kind of lack of confidence in private entities, which is revealed in the provisions of this law. It is worth correcting the provisions in order to facilitate their participation in investment activities. It is modern in favour of bringing this draft law to committee, but it seems to me that this project should be dealt with by at least three committees, namely undoubtedly the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, the Committee on Infrastructure, but also the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. There is also no doubt about the creation of a subcommittee. I would just add, last but not least, that it would be good if this law were worked out without haste, with a view to constructively building solutions that would help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u571	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski made a statement in writing. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u572	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Free and Solidarnia Circle, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, Accommodation and Houses for Homeless People, the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of Civil Code and some other Acts. The aim of the contested law is to achieve the basic objectives of the National Housing Programme, namely to increase access to housing for people with income that prevents them from being acquired or rented at commercial prices, to increase the capacity to meet the housing needs of people at risk of social exclusion due to low incomes or particularly difficult living conditions, to improve housing conditions, the technical condition of housing resources and to increase energy efficiency. The housing situation of Poles is not good. In this respect, the current government must once again repair years of negligence. According to research by the CSO in Poland, almost 1 million apartments do not have a toilet and 0.5 million premises do not even have running water. Poles are very indebted, the debt for housing fees amounts to almost PLN 5 billion and almost PLN 17,000. people are at risk of eviction, therefore the development of cheaper housing for those excluded and poor is necessary. In such a situation, the state must take appropriate steps so that Poles can live under decent conditions. The law proposed by the government is intended to provide access to housing support instruments, which will undoubtedly facilitate funding and thus improve the housing situation of people at risk of social exclusion due to low incomes or particularly difficult living conditions. The proposed project introduces a number of changes in the legal solutions for social housing and defines many elements that are part of it. Undoubtedly, the implementation of the law will facilitate the application for non-refundable financial support from the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego Fund and thus increase the resources of municipal buildings designed to meet citizens' housing needs. About Free and Solidarni will support the procedated project, as has so far supported any change that improves the situation of the poorest Poles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u573	Thank you very much, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u574	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I listened carefully to what you said about this bill. Of course, you have to take care of people who make too much money to get a communal apartment, and not enough to afford to pay for a loan and buy property, but the lack of social housing is a major problem for all municipalities. I know we're going this way, and I agree that we should go. These premises should be getting better and not social, but there are people who do not pay notoriously not because they can't, just because they don't want to, the rent of the municipality, therefore part-standard housing is needed for municipalities and there is no scheme for securing and assisting municipalities in construction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are the locations. If the Minister had been kind about this, I'd say... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u575	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u576	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I must say that this project is indeed affecting completely new, previously unknown water in the High House. I've never met such a project, Minister, in which there would be so much written with a little print as in the credit agreement. With this little print, ladies and gentlemen, the most important information is written in the impact assessment. I don't know if you're trying to hide it, but I have questions about it. First of all, Minister, how did you count this 6 billion PLN? I must say that this impact assessment shows that in the first three years there will be a maximum of PLN 500 million of new funds, provided that the municipalities wish to use them. In fact, billions of amounts, which are not new billions, start from 2021, which is when you are long gone. So, Minister, first of all, how did you count the $6 billion? What are the real means you want? [[♪ The bell ♪]] allocate to this in the years 2018 and 2020? Is it true that this is only 500 million PLN, that is not even 10% ? And thirdly, Minister, as you have counted 170,000. New apartments? It's gonna be really interesting math. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u577	Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u578	Dear Marshal! Minister! Mr Suchoń presented the account with one unknown. How did the Minister calculate it because we don't know that? This is backup. You do not brag so much, because you show that the aid in 2018 - 210 million PLN - as you define it, this is refundable aid from the Dollar Fund. [[But how's the community gonna take it?]] Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego gives money and the remaining money comes from local government money. So, a wealthy government, because you're taking some of their income, you're going to build housing. Great! Just tell me that today the local authorities will know precisely how to prepare for this, what the interest rate of this return funding will be. Really. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an art to say: at the beginning we show fig leaf, 200 million PLN, and only when this term is over will we go to aid of 1 billion PLN. It seems to me that it is worth talking about this calmly, because there are a lot of reservations, comments and questions from the social and local authorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u579	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u580	Therefore, the pace and timing of March 1 cannot be observed. Don't rush. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u581	Thank you very much, Member. Please answer the question of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Kazimierz Smolinski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u582	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad all the clubs support the project as a whole. [[They support us because we assume... your success, the work of local governments.]] Of course, what one of your fellow Members said: referral to committee, so he did not file a motion for rejection. No one filed a motion for rejection, and thank you for that. Of course, we can argue about the records, but in general the project has been accepted by the social side and not only. I have the impression that some of you haven't read it completely... [[They read the discrepancies.]] ...what we proposed, because there were some controversial records and they were eliminated. For example, the fixed-term agreement or the lack of inheritance mentioned here by the Member met with such opposition. At the moment, this opposition from the tenant community is no longer present, because all these reservations that have been raised have either been clarified or have been taken into account. The project already contains another text. This is a different text than the one originally proposed. I think that many of the doubts you are talking about will be clarified during the work of the subcommittee, because, as Mr Rzońc said, a subcommittee will be set up in this regard. As I said, the date of 1 March is probably impossible to comply with, so the bill will enter into force when the High House deems it appropriate, depending on the length of the procedure for this law. Of course, we're talking about social housing. Mrs Młyńska says, and we are not eliminating... [[The miller.]] I'm sorry, Millczak. Excuse me. We don't eliminate the social concept as such, we eliminate the social resource. We do not want what has happened in many local governments over the last few years - a kind of social ghetto has been created, a large number of low-standard buildings. This is not the way to create a proper housing policy. Everyone has to live in different places, but it's a good standard, so there's not gonna be low-standard ones. On the other hand, with regard to the situations that Mrs Chmiel has said here that someone is not paying, we are showing a new instrument of aid for the creation of temporary premises. They don't have to be apartments. This may be a temporary space that is suitable for people to live in, but it's not an apartment. There could be a common toilet. There are no special conditions here. It is known that there must be access to the toilet, there must be access to the kitchen, but it can be shared, so we provide funding. I don't understand this question at all about feedback. The bill doesn't refer to feedback. [[What do you mean? What do you mean?]] The Act is aimed primarily at non-refundable grants. This year, in 2018, there is PLN 210 million. We'd like the municipalities to be able to, in common terms, rewrite it. The first hand should still be this year, it will be in March. If necessary, we will extend this deadline so that applications for funding can also be submitted in April. It is not true that local governments will not be able to benefit from it this year, because I know, I met, talked with local governments, and with the social housing companies that are waiting for this bill, have prepared projects and want to implement these projects already this year. And next year, of course, there is 500 million PLN. If it turns out that there will be more of these needs next year, we can increase funding. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego has funds that will secure at the level required by local governments. We're prepared to speed up this program, only so the local governments can. Because this was also mentioned just now, that local governments are indebted and unable to build the right number of premises. That's why we're giving them more support. We're giving them more support than we've ever been. In addition, e.g. The municipalities can still get 5%. more support. If they implement the Senior Programme or the Life Programme, then an additional 5% They'll be able to get it, except for that support we talked about earlier. Of course, Mr Suchoń... We're going to show these calculations because these amounts or quantities didn't come out of the air. We have been working on this law for more than a year - it is not 2 weeks, it is the year of work on this law - and there was a lot of consultation, there have been consultations with local governments and various NGOs, tenants organisations. All their comments and expectations have been taken into account in this law, as far as possible of course. But this law results only from expectations - from expectations on the part of local governments, on the side of social housing companies, which, for example. they can benefit from this 20% grant. The municipality will get it, and for example. This can be seen as a participation in the society of social construction. There's the only limit that's going to be, that's 4%. the replacement value. So this is more than the rate of the municipal rent, and at the same time less... [[But only in TBS.]] No, the local government will have the opportunity to use these 20% with any investor. This could be a typical public-private partnership. Condition that the equivalent of 20% of investment costs will be 20% residential area where rents of not more than 4% must be used the replacement value. So what we're going to do is we're going to refer this to the midranges that we've been talking about here. So it's more than the municipal rent, and at the same time less than the market rent. This is a special instrument to be used by local governments for this type of residential solution. It could be the developer, it could be the TBS, it could be the housing cooperative. The municipality is free to use this grant here. The result must be that the rent in the part that the municipality will finance cannot be more than 4% the replacement value. These are, of course, much lower than market rates, but higher, I repeat once again, than municipal rates. However, municipalities - about this country from the Civic Platform club - have long been expecting the idea of a social resource to be abolished. It was a misfortune for the municipalities that had to release social resources. They received support for municipal construction, and at the same time they had to release social resources. We're giving it up. The municipality doesn't have to secrete any social resources. However, it is the 21st century, everyone should live under the same conditions - whether I pay the social rent or I pay the municipal rent or I pay the market rent. In the case of new apartments, the tenant who gets a communal apartment can pay three rents in the future, living in one apartment. Now, if his income was reduced, he would have to be evicted and transferred to a social establishment, but as his income grew, the municipality couldn't do anything about it. At the moment it will be so that if someone gets a communal place and has a rent depending on the resolution of the commune council, because the municipalities themselves determine it, if his income falls, he will get a social contract, in respect of the same place he will have a social contract, and if his income increases, he may, in time, have a rent increase to market value. And you can't talk about any unconstitutionality here. I think it's time to talk. on social justice - people with higher incomes, if they want to live in municipal resources, should pay higher rent, including up to market rent. And it will be the choice of this person, whether she wants to continue living in municipal resources, even though she pays the market rent. We assume that this will start emptying the municipal premises, because they are usually of a lower standard than the market ones, so if someone is to pay, let's say, for the municipal rental rate market, it's a chance that they'll leave this place and rent a place on the market, and this place will empty out. I think in time... For now, there's quite a bit of resistance to the fact that I'm about to enter into fixed-term contracts - if I have a high income, I should... [[Whose resistance? Communes?]] First of all, the resistance of tenants who are afraid. That's why we're not introducing this solution. We're entering into an indeterminate contract. There was a misunderstanding here, too. Someone said we're changing social contracts for a limited period of time. Currently, in the case of social resources, all contracts are concluded for a limited period of time, so we do not change anything in this respect. We're just changing the formula. There's no social resource, there's a social contract, but it's the same place. This is a decisive action for the benefit of residents who do not have to leave the municipal resources to be transferred to social resources. We don't want to create that kind of ghetto. I was in one of the communes last year, where the mayor had probably already built the sixth building, where there was very low rent, but all the people who live there are just from the old barracks that were there. They were demolished and in the same place they created social housing for people with very low incomes or those who do not have any income at all. This is not how social policy, housing policy should be implemented. These people should live in different buildings, have rich neighbors, less wealthy neighbors. This is how we normally live in society and it should be the same for municipal resources. I therefore think that we will convince you that these solutions we are proposing are good and that they will be supported by the High House. Of course, the High House will decide on the final form of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u583	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Ms Krystyna Skowrońska. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u584	Dear Minister, I will be happy to work on this project, but in the article. 1 in Amendment 4 in point (a) h you define feedback, and in other parts there is no feedback. If, due to the deadline for the submission, I have read it imprecisely, this is the question that arises. And I do not break a copy of the rules in dispute, but such financial support in this project is mentioned. I'd love to get involved in this project. It's just a corrigendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u585	Thank you. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u586	High Seym! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party, I will present a position regarding the government draft law on amending the law on financial support for the creation of social premises, shelters and houses for homeless people, the law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the commune and on the amendment of the Civil Code and some other laws, print no. 2192. Changes in the rules for assisting local authorities in the creation of housing stock for rent. The project proposes to link the deadline for the transfer of budgetary resources - using the form of the special reserve - with the deadlines for the payment of financial support declared by investors. This will provide a realistic response to the investment needs of municipalities for municipal construction. This is the possibility of financing housing investments at a level that covers the estimated deficit of municipal premises. According to the project, in connection with the liquidation of a separate functional part of the housing stock of the municipality, which are social premises, municipalities and single-member municipal companies, which the municipality entrusted with carrying out its own task of meeting the housing needs of the local government community, they will be able to apply for financial support for the construction of municipal premises. This will be possible without the existing requirement to separate the relevant social housing stock from the housing stock of the municipality. The project also clarifies the possibility of applying for financial support for the implementation of a project consisting in the renovation or reconstruction of a residential building which, due to its poor technical condition, has been excluded from use or whose use has been prohibited. The municipality or a single-member municipality was also allowed to buy a share in the residential building. It is proposed to provide support for the creation of temporary premises, which are intended to be rented in case of execution of the eviction judgment from the premises. This will apply to situations where the debtor has not been granted the right to a social lease by the court. Financial support will also be provided for renovation or reconstruction of existing accommodation facilities and shelters for homeless people and projects which will result in heating. An important solution is to allow for simultaneous financing of the same projects from the European Union and to support them on the basis of the revised provisions of the Act. The investor will be able to benefit from this option provided that the support does not cover the same costs of the project which are already financed by EU funds. A new non-refundable financial support instrument was proposed for the creation of housing for rent for lower-income earners, i.e. those who obtain too low income to meet housing needs in commercial conditions and in the rental system of apartments offered on market terms - including the option to pursue property - and too high to apply for a municipal place. It is about the non-refundable financial support provided to municipalities and inter-communal unions to cover part of the costs of the project consisting of the participation of the municipality and the inter-communal relationship in the cost of building premises by another investor. For persons applying for a tenant from a housing estate, the municipality was required to submit a declaration of the amount of household income, a statement of property status and, at the request of the municipality, a declaration of non-legal title to another premises located in the same or nearby village under criminal liability. This means that the establishment of the lease will depend not only on the income of the person concerned but also on his/her property. This will apply to new leases. The social rent of the apartments has been introduced. This means abandoning the concept of social housing and abandoning the need to separate these premises from the housing stock of the municipality. The use of social leases will be based on the fact that the municipality will be able to rent or rent any place that meets the statutory requirements as part of a social lease, which should reduce the scale of problems related to the shortage of social premises.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u587	In the discussion, a request was made to refer the draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Insurance Distribution (prints No 2207 and 2210). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u588	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Insurance Distribution, print no. 2207. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finance for first reading on 24 January 2018. After the first reading, the Public Finance Commission decided to transfer the project to further work without any amendments and thus asked for the adoption of the above draft law, as I said, without amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u589	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Andrzej Costowniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u590	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Distribution. The proposed law amending the Act on Insurance Distribution aims to postpone the date of entry into force of the Act of 15 December 2017 on Insurance Distribution, Dz. U. poz. 2486, which implemented into the Polish legal system Directive (EU) 2016/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 January 2016 on insurance distribution, hereinafter referred to as Directive 2016/97. In the European Union, a proposal from the European Commission to postpone the date of application of this Directive from 1 October 2018 is being examined. Directive 2016/97 currently sets a deadline for transposition and application as at 23 February 2018. In addition, a group of 16 Member States asked the European Commission to postpone the transposition period and the entry into force of Directive 2066/97 until at least 1 October 2018. Both the European Parliament and a group of Member States justified their proposals by the need to provide the insurance industry with more time needed to better prepare for the implementation and effective application of Directive 206/97 and the delegated Regulations. The European Commission has agreed to take into account the European Parliament's proposal and partly the group of Member States to postpone to 1 October 2018 the deadline from which Member States are to apply the national provisions necessary to comply with Directivepl. As a result of extensive arrangements and public consultations, no objections were raised to the draft position of the government. In view of the above, the proposed law provides for the amendment of the date of entry into force of the Insurance Distribution Act from 23 February 2018 to 1 October 2018. Thus, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the above draft law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u591	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u592	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We're on the third shift at 3 o'clock. 23.30, and we are proceeding with the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Distribution. This proposal was addressed to Parliament 2 days ago and the committee therefore agreed to shorten the date of first reading from the date of referral to the High House to the date of procedure in the High House, which is the minimum seven-day deadline. I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position on the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Distribution. This is a government project and mainly concerns a change of the date of entry into force of the Insurance Distribution Act. The Insurance Distribution Act was introduced on 15 December 2017. Its entry into force was set at 23 February 2018. In his speech, the rapporteur, Mr Costowniak, pointed out that this was due to an amendment to the European Parliament and Council Directive on insurance distribution, currently indicating a new date for the entry into force of this solution on 1 October 2018. The scope of this regulation, as we said at the end of last year, is the requirements for product supervision and management imposed on insurance companies and insurance distributors. I hope that, despite the delay in this date of entry into force, the Financial Supervision Authority will make good efforts to ensure that no inconvenience arises on the part of the consumer. On the other hand, it is a matter of information requirements and operating rules for insurance distributors and of investment products. All the Seym clubs, including my club, the Civic Platform Club, supported this project - then, but also today the law on insurance distribution. It is particularly important for us to strengthen the status of a customer purchasing an insurance product or an insurance investment product, a clearly formulated contract, the acquisition costs of the product and the costs of contributions. I would also like to remind you that the Civic Platform Club in 2015 brought the Ombudsman's bill into session and carried out a bill that strengthens the position of banking and insurance consumers, which gives these clients an additional legal protection institution. The project, on which we are proceeding, therefore extends the deadline for the entry into force of the Insurance Distribution Act by 7 months, together with the consequences of the shift of that deadline. This will therefore allow especially micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to prepare for the application of the new regulations, which we welcome and evaluate also the representative of the Polish Insurance Association who expressed this position at the committee meeting. High Izbo! Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform supports the procedated bill. We will vote in favour, indicating the particular role of the Financial Supervision Commission in terms of consumer protection and the role of the Financial Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u593	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u594	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Poselski Club on the government draft law amending the Act on insurance distribution following the presentation of the report of committees, prints no. 2207 and 2210. Ladies and gentlemen! The law itself, as most of us remember, is de facto the implementation of the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance distribution. The deadline for this implementation is February 23rd, while the law was adopted and entered into force on 15 December 2017, i.e. it was adopted, while the provisions were originally to enter into force within a time limit which ensured the implementation of the directive. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, reading this law could be done on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which allow the High House to move immediately after first reading to second reading. This regulation is very scarce, but it is the result of the European Commission's proposal to postpone the date of application of the directive which was transposed until 1 October 2018. There have been requests from both the European Parliament and a group of 16 Member States to postpone the application of this Directive, justifying these proposals by providing the insurance industry with more time needed to better prepare for the correct and effective application of this Directive and the delegated regulations. In view of this message, the Government has addressed this proposal to the High House, which is being examined in the European Commission. In addition to the shift, a significant shift of time, it also amends the Episcopal Provisions with Article. Article 101 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 107. 5 and corrects certain provisions of the Act by changing incorrect references. These are, of course, the things that modern club thinks should be done. We will therefore vote in favour of this law. On the other hand, of course, I would also like to appeal to all institutions that this time, which is extended, is the time which you are, as a matter of fact, receiving for the better adaptation of your organisations to meet the objectives for which you are called, is precisely what you will use to make even better use of, with a focus on the safety of customers, on the safety of your customers, to prepare your organisations and your procedures to comply with these directives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u595	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u596	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Insurance Distribution, these are prints no. 2207 and 2210. The first reading of the project, as the rapporteur said, took place during the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. The Commission welcomed the Government's proposal, adopted it in the version submitted by the Government and did not make any amendments or comments. The project generally concerns the amendment of the date of entry into force of the Insurance Distribution Act of 23 February this year. for 1 October this year In fact, this proposal meets the European Commission's proposal to postpone the date of entry into force of Directive 2066/97 to at least 1 October 2018. This delay in the date of entry into force of the provisions of this law - an extension of it as if by 7 months - will allow insurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings, insurance and reinsurance brokers, as well as insurance agents to better prepare for the application of the new regulations. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports this project and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u597	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. No one asked me to ask you a question. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report of the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws (Prints No. 2198 and 2219). I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u598	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present a report by the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws, contained in print No 2219. The amendment of the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law, was adopted at the 55th meeting of the Sejm and is aimed primarily at improving the functioning of the verification commission, as well as at improving the situation of people affected by the so-called. wild reprivatization in Warsaw and which resulted in it being wronged. The amendment adopted by the Sejm, among others. it will enable a complaint to be lodged with the administrative court immediately after the decision has been taken, eliminating proceedings for review by the committee itself. But above all, the amendment will allow to reverse the effects of faulty reprivatization decisions issued in previous years, which have affected tenants who have been working for many years in residential premises in Warsaw real estate. In addition, it requires the City Hall to restore the illegally removed tenants to the apartments occupied by them prior to the issue of the immovable property to an unauthorised beneficiary and to stop the fraud of unduly charged rents or other charges. The new rules will also allow the committee to have access to judicial material which may be necessary in the course of the Commission's activities. In the case of cases pending before a court, the President of the court will only be able to send a copy of the file without having to send the original documentation. The new regulations also provide the Commission with access to up-to-date and complete data and information collected in national registers. In addition, they make it clear that the committee may use data obtained from the Presidents of the courts, prosecutors, governmental and local authorities or their subordinate organisational units to carry out statutory tasks and process them without the knowledge or consent of the data subject. These entries are necessary for the entry into force of 25 May this year. EU data protection regulations, GDPR. The law adopted also eliminates the need to hold a hearing in any case, since it is not always necessary to hold a hearing. The Commission may also exclude the disclosure of the hearing, in particular if the details of the family life of the participant in the proceedings are to be discussed. One of the more discussed elements of the amendment adopted is the introduction of an increase in the maximum fine for the party, witness and expert for unjustified non-compliance at the hearing of the committee or leaving the hearing without the permission of the hearing-man - from a sum of 3 000. PLN and 10,000. in the event of a repeated failure to comply with the call for an amount of 10 000. And 30,000. in the event of a repeated failure to comply with the call. The Commission, irrespective of the imposition of the fine, will also be able to request the competent district prosecutor to order the detention and forced delivery of the requested person in cases where it is established that the requested person persistently evades his appointment. The Act will also allow the commission to block the regulations by issuing a warning in the perpetual book already at the stage of the investigation, which will prevent unfair beneficiaries of reprivatization decisions from taking action to prevent the return of the property to the city as a result of the decision taken by the committee. On the other hand, in the case of actions involving harassment of tenants, the amending law will allow the committee to impose a fine on the person who committed such acts, or on the person acting on behalf of the legal person concerned by the decision of the committee. This revenue will only be used for the payment of compensation or compensation to tenants. The Senate has examined this law amending the Law on specific rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws at its meeting on 19 January this year. and accepted five amendments. The Senate shall decide in its first amendment on the status of the members of the verification committee. In the Sejm, this matter was widely discussed at the committee meeting, but it was not resolved, we did not introduce the relevant provisions to the amendment. The Senate accepted that the members of the committee would treat themselves as employees. Thus, they will be included in the catalogue of entities covered by compulsory social insurance as referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 Act on the social security system and, consequently, health insurance. In addition, this amendment concludes that the payer of social security and health insurance contributions for the members of the committee is the Minister of Justice's office. The other amendments of the Senate aim to eliminate possible interpretation doubts and are more precise. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission at its meeting on 25 January 2018 considered the Senate resolution and requested that all amendments be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u599	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bartłomiej Wróblewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u600	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice a position on the report of the Legislative Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions concerning Warsaw Real Estate, issued in violation of the law and certain other laws. It's 2219. As you know, the committee's work attracts public attention. They show the scale of the powerful pathologies created in Warsaw and the mechanisms that allowed them to arise: the negligence of the local authorities of Warsaw, the inaction of law enforcement authorities, and the irresponsibleness of the courts. As we know, violations of law have often been accompanied by human harm, as many tenants have been victims of unlawful reprivatisation. The Commission for the reprivatization of Warsaw real estate has been set up as law enforcement authorities have not been able to solve the problems raised, eliminate reprivatization pathologies. Despite the effective work of the committee, we believe that changes are needed in the act. To put it synthetically, it is two things: on the one hand, to counter the chronicity of proceedings pending before the committee, on the other hand, to increase citizens' confidence in the committee and its decisions. We're a positive judge of work at the Senate. I declare that Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the adoption of Senate amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u601	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u602	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I would like to present a position on the Senate resolution amending the adopted law concerning the so-called. the reprivatisation committee. The critical position of the Civic Platform in relation to this law was emphasized and sounded decisively and strongly during the Parliamentary work, when numerous errors, numerous shortcomings and numerous reservations of the constitutional nature of the adopted bill were pointed out. The amendments proposed by the Senate can be considered as a minimum minimum of the minimum of those reservations which were indicated at the parliamentary stage and, of course, should be accepted with approval, in particular those relating to the status of committee members, as we talked about during work not only during committee meetings but also during the vote. This status was not regulated as regards social security contributions, which was, of course, done with damage to workers. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club does not comment on the amendments adopted by the Senate and requests them to be adopted. However, this does not change the overall critical attitude towards the draft law adopted in the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u603	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bartosz Józwiak made a statement in writing. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz too. Please, Mr Eugeniusz Trouble, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u604	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party accepts the amendments tabled by the Senate. We will vote in favour of them. But once again, I am wondering as a long-standing parliamentarians how it is possible that in a democratic legal state - that is the provision in the Constitution - there could be such pathology in the matter that we are talking about here. Despite these constitutional doubts, however, it has not been possible - and this has to be regretted - over all these years, almost 30, the authorities of the state called to slow this process down, as well as to correct the harm done to people in the same way. And today, whether you like it or not, you have to let the committee set up with all these doubts continue to work effectively. That is our position and we will support the work of this committee. You just have to make up for the damage. That's what we think. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u605	Thank you very much. None of the ladies and gentlemen of the House have submitted a question. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Implementation of certain activities of the Central Authority in the field of family legal trade under European Union law and international agreements (Prints No 2197 and 2202). I would very much like to ask Mr Waldemar Buda to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u606	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the Senate's resolution on the Act on the performance of certain activities of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. Three amendments were tabled by the Senate in the resolution: one substantive amendment and two technical amendments ordering the legislation in question. One of the main amendments is an amendment extending the time limit from 2 to 4 months to bring an appeal against the judgment of the Court of First Instance. That term has been pointed out before. There have been discussions about this. The Senate has proposed to extend this term twice. On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like to point out that all three amendments have received a positive opinion and that the committee calls for them to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u607	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mrs Elżbieta Stępień, the Modern Posel Club, because the clubs: Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform and Club Poselski Kukiz,15 statements have been made in writing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u608	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! On behalf of the Modern Club, I present my views on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act on the Implementation of certain activities of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements, print No 2202. During the committee's work and just before the vote, we presented to you the need to extend the period for filing a cassation complaint to at least three months instead of two months. And you would like a thing, Minister: didn't I tell you? First of all, we were guided by a real and real deadline for submitting it, above all by access to the entire case file, analysis, evaluation of documents, notification, etc. You know how much time it takes to prepare a fair cassation complaint, which is why I have sought to extend the deadline to at least 3 months. Unfortunately, the Sejm rejected the amendment. The Senate has come to the problem rationally. The four-month period for lodging a complaint will contribute to the real exercise of this measure of action, thereby strengthening the protection of the rights of the child. For independent reasons, decisions could be detrimental to the child and, thanks to this change, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, or the Attorney General, could bring an action as an emergency measure. It is therefore modern in favour of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u609	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u610	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Freedom and Solidarnia Circle, I present my views on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act on the Implementation of certain activities of the Central Authority in family matters in the field of legal trade under European Union law and international agreements. Protecting and upholding children's rights should be our priority. Children are helpless beings, so we should be concerned about them. Let me remind you that this draft law involves four acts of international law: the European Luxembourg Convention of 20 May 1980, the Hague Convention of October 1980, the Hague Convention of 19 October 1996 and the Council Regulation of November 2003. All these documents are governed by the law on cross-border proceedings, e.g. so-called. family, abduction and detention of children in such a way as to reduce the negative effects of these events. In order to enhance the protection of the state over its minors, improvements are needed. the effectiveness of the action taken on the basis of those acts. It is necessary to adopt a law that regulates in its content not adequately regulated issues of the matter in question. During the debate in the Senate, the senators tabled three amendments to the bill. In the first amendment, they propose an extension from 2 to 4 months of the deadline for drawing up and filing a cassation complaint in cases where a person under parental or custody is removed. This is all in order to enable the parties entitled to do so to comply with the deadline for drawing up and submitting cassation complaints. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has given a positive opinion on the Senate amendments. They do not change the essential principles of the law. The solutions adopted confirm that the Polish state recognises the great value of its youngest citizens to society, regardless of where they were born. The Free and Solidarni circle supports the amendments proposed by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u611	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. No one asked me to ask you a question. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for January 25th. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mr Tomasz Ławniczak, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u612	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It's 24 o'clock, you can make a statement, because it's a special anniversary for the local community that I'm pleased to represent. It is about Mr Edmund Marczak, who is one of the most famous people taking part in the cultural life of the municipality and the town of Nowe Skalmierzyce and one of the most recognizable cultural figures in the Ostrowski district in Wielkopolska. At the same time he is probably the last surviving member of the representative orchestra of the Capital Battalion from the pre-World War II composition. Today he celebrates his 100th birthday. He was born on January 26, 1918 in Duisburg, Germany. Two years later, in 1920, parents moved to reborn Poland and lived in Nowe Skalmierzyce in Ostrów County. He lost his mother early. He's had musical interest since he was a kid. As early as 1932, at the age of 14, he was admitted to the military orchestra 60. Infantry regiment in Ostrów Wielkopolski. Two years later, he was assigned to the 3 year music conservatory in Katowice. It was the best students in this training that gave power to the remodeled band of the Capital Battalion. By order of 10 April 1937, 19-year-old Edmund Marczak was summoned to Warsaw. From then on, he served as a military force, playing in the Capital Battalion's Representation Orchestra until the outbreak of World War II, specializing in drumming. As a member of the orchestra, he took part in various uplifting events of that epoch: he participated in playing national anthems during official visits, as well as during interstate matches, went with the company for solemn changes worth before the grave of the Unknown Soldier, played at funeral ceremonies of significant people, was in the orchestra during the solemn greeting of the coffin with the remains of St. Andrzej Boboli in June 1938 finally took part in occasional concerts for the audience and recordings in Polish Radio. In September 1939 he was assigned to the Warsaw Defence Command as a bishop. After capitulation, he was taken into captivity, from which he escaped, entering the family's New Skalmierzyc. However, in June 1940 he was arrested and deported to forced labor in Bavaria, where he worked until 1945. After the war, he returned to Nowe Skalmierzyc and found employment on the railroad. Until his retirement in 1978, he worked in various railway plants as an official, the longest in the Railway Works in Ostrów Wielkopolski. Since the '50s. In the 20th century, when wind orchestras began to form at various state workplaces, especially railway companies, Mr Edmund Marczak participated in their creation and actively participated in the game. As an outstanding musician who specializes in playing drums, with pre-war practice of playing in the Capital Battalion's Representation Orchestra, he has always been one of the basics of the rhythm section of the orchestra. It is no wonder that various brass orchestras of southern Wielkopolska ran over time, from the 1950s to the 1990s. The 20th century, about Mr Edmund's participation in their composition. In the post-war period, Mr Edmund Marczak was a member of 10 brass orchestras of southern Wielkopolska, except that there were often periods that he played in two or even three orchestras at the same time. Since 2008, due to age, he has limited his music activities to one orchestra - to this day he remains an active instrumentalist of the Urban and Municipal Dęta Orchestra at CSR in Skalmierzyce. Edmund Marczak, promoted to lieutenant rank in 2004, was honored with the title of Veteran Walk for Freedom and Independence of the Homeland, and also awarded with various medals and badges related to merits for the Polish state, army, culture and local community, from which I will mention only recently received Laur Culture of Ostrowski County for 2017. I would like to thank Mr Edmund Marczak for his social effort to promote musical culture in southern Wielkopolska for decades and to express deep respect for his musical skills. I wish the 100-year-old birthday boy more years of health, [[♪ The bell ♪]] strength to music in the City-City Orchestra of the OSP in Skalmierzyce and God's blessing. God bless you, Mr. Edmund!
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u613	Thank you very much, sir. There is no Mrs Margaret Chmiel. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Circle of Members of Free and Solidarni.
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u614	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my honor to present a statement on the millennium of peace in Budziszyn. January 30th this year A thousand years have passed since the conclusion of the peace treaty between Poland and Germany, which is a proof of the power of the Polish state and confirms its independence from external forces. Emperor Henry II, unable to deal with Bolesław Chrobre with his own forces, gained an ally in the form of Kiev's Rusa. Poland suffered a simultaneous attack from the west and east. The year 1017, however, became history as the year of the huge triumph of Polish weapons. The aggressors from across the eastern border were defeated by an army commanded by Chrobry. Before the next anti-Polish war expedition of the German Empire, the Western border was able to protect the population of the western border of our country to a large extent. The heroic defense of Silesian castles, Głogowa and Germans, has gone to history. The invaders gave up the news of defeating their Russian ally and coming the victorious army of Bolesław Chrobre. A thousand years ago, in January 1018, the German Empire troops not only withdrew for Odra and Nysa, but also left the Slavic Lusatia and Milsko. The defeated German ruler himself proposed peace, which was concluded on 30 January 1018. The signed treaty confirmed Poland's membership of all Silesia and Lubuskie land, but also the neighbouring lands of Lusatia and Milska. The integrity and total independence of the Polish state were confirmed. The Room of Węgszyński decided on a long and extremely fruitful Śląska belonging to Poland. Since then, it has remained within the borders of the Polish state for three consecutive centuries and has been a region of flourishing Polish culture. The roots of Witelon, the first great Polish scholar, of European fame at Italian universities, noted as Wratislaviensis - master of Polonorum, are Legnicko-Wroclaw. A quarter of a century before Marco Polo's expedition, the first European expedition to the Far East, led by Benedict Pole, author of the first dictionary of Eastern languages in the history of world science, the first creator of Oriental philology, began from Wrocław. In 1270 the first sentence was written in Polish on the land saved by the Treaty of Wroclaw, Henryków. Peace in Budziszyn was the result of the biggest Polish political victory in Polish-German history. We need to remember and remind. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2018-01-25-sejm-57-1.u615	Thank you very much, Member. That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting is adjourned until 26 January 2018 at the latest. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 08]]
